for the efd group. over the years, the european union has developed an extremely rich structure of different regulations and rules to give the public the impression that the union cares about the purity and quality of our food. to reinforce this impression, it employed a wide range of experts, inspectors, veterinarians and officials, and built up a rich institutional base guaranteeing a european quality of food. well, folks, today we're gonna see how it works. europe is flooded with heavily contaminated food and our bureaucratic machinery apparently doesn't know what to do about it. to appreciate the seriousness of the situation, let us first recall what the food businessmen were serving us. the scientific community considers dioxin to be the most poisonous chemical ever produced by man. they are a carcinogen of the highest degree, but also cause a decrease in cellular and hormonal immunity, increased susceptibility to infections, reduced fertility, increased abortion, ovarian dysfunction, birth defects, increased fetal mortality, central nervous system developmental disorders, pathological changes in steroid hormones and receptors, etc. they're not decomposing. it accumulates in the tissues of living things, and the world health organization states that if dioxin the size of a grain of rice were released into the direct circulation, it would be equivalent to the annual limit for a million people. today we learn in addition that the german company harles and jentzsch has been enriching animal feed with dioxins and has supplied up to three thousand tonnes of fat contaminated with dioxins to the market since march 2010. the contaminated eggs have been found to have been transported to the netherlands and the united kingdom, and the meat to france and denmark. i ask you, commissioner, how is it possible that a company which supplies compound feedingstuffs to thousands of farmers is not registered in the prescribed control system? what is the cooperation of the public authorities in germany if a company is allowed to produce compound feed without being registered in the control system at the same time? how did veterinary checks on farms go when veterinary inspectors did not detect contamination of feed from march 2010 to december last year? and, folks, what about the disposal of this food? we're talking about liquidated eggs and liquidated meat and what... (speaker is interrupted by the chair)
for the s&d group. we are talking about a very sensitive subject here at this hour of the night, because we are talking about the smallest, the ones who need our love and need our care. the problem of abandoned children in europe is becoming more and more serious. the situation that has arisen is now much more the responsibility of the immediate surroundings. the right to adopt a child internationally can also prevent many children from being forced to live in orphanages, where, despite the great care they receive, they never feel that real motherly love or paternal affection. it is therefore necessary to streamline the adoption system so that abandoned children can find a surrogate family at the earliest possible age. for example, the rights of biological parents should be restricted if they do not show genuine interest in the child for a period of time. this would reduce the period that the child spends in the orphanage, because he is not so-called legally free. this would also eliminate to some extent the unnecessary delays in the entire adoption process. a number of conventions on the protection of minors provide for the legislative role of those responsible to act in the interests of these children. the protection of the rights of the child is also one of the main objectives of the european union. appropriate steps should therefore continue to be taken in order to protect in particular the best interests of the child in all circumstances.
mr. president, i have to go. nice of you to come. i want to thank you for your thorough answer. as well as knowing that the hague convention regulates intercountry adoption in practice, we also know that 26 of the 27 member states are parties to this treaty, and you are also right that it is a question of subsidiarity how to apply this international convention. but at the same time, i feel that we cannot be indifferent, that life forces us to deal with the problem of children not only when there are scandals, when it is revealed that hundreds of children have been sold here, hundreds of children, or more than a thousand children have been sold there. the other side of this is that the children that we know exist in the european union by the thousands can be put up for adoption. the issue is unavoidable because the european union is responsible for respecting children's rights, while we also see that around adoption, as a result of certain rights being overemphasised by national legislation and practice, children are rendered unadoptable and their other rights are thus curtailed. she must be a woman. i would like to ask you very much to take what you said in your introduction, that there is no international law that the european union can already have, that adoption documents should be recognised in the member state, that we need to move quickly on this issue.
let me take a different look at adoption. the children deserve the best. that means they deserve a family in the first place. a real one or a surrogate, with a loving mother and father. neither borders nor the european union can stand in the way of such a family. and while the member states have the final say on adoption, it is our duty to facilitate this journey. remember, though, that the child's best interests must always come first. trying to help his parents if they get into trouble. the social situation of the parents must not be a reason for deciding to adopt their child. taking a child from a poor parent is easy, but it's also the worst thing you can do to a child. and that goes double for international adoptions. as one of the signatories of the question on intercountry adoption which we have put to the commission, i am very pleased that this topic has been raised by many of my colleagues. or i would prefer that we should take the welfare of the family and its needs into account with the same energy and tenacity in all european policies.
we are talking about international adoptions at the moment because in every country there are children who cannot or for various reasons cannot be placed in functioning families or in surrogate families in that country itself. it is unacceptable that situations such as those we have seen in the recent past, where a richer country, such as italy, has had a greater opportunity to adopt children from poorer romania, should be repeated. certainly, as some colleagues have already said this evening, poverty cannot be a sufficient reason to take a child from the family and allow international adoption. and i want to stress very strongly that in this situation, we must take great care to ensure that not only national laws are respected, but also international laws. to prevent the risk of abuse, trafficking and kidnapping of children.
three years ago, the schengen area was extended to include new member states. however, restrictive measures still exist at the borders between the old and new member states. for example, at the rusovce kittsee border crossing, a motorway crossing between slovakia and austria, the austrian side applies a significant speed limit of 30 km/h. the passageway is still considerably narrowed by a concrete barrier. it is not unusual for the border to be the site of regular speed checks on passing vehicles and quite often also of police checks on documents and the contents of car trunks. schengen membership means free movement of people and goods. only a simple information board should alert a citizen to the fact that he is crossing the border of a member state of the union. this behaviour, not only in austria, is a breach of the schengen rules and the european commission should respond in principle.
i, along with many others, welcome the hungarian presidency of the eu. i am proud that this central european member state is the third of those who joined in 2004 to undertake this honourable and responsible mission. there is no doubt that hungary has always been at the forefront of democracy. who would question 1956, or 1989, or the fall of 2006. therefore, i am very shocked by the negative campaign launched by certain political forces against the next eu president, including on the pretext of the hungarian media law. it's quite clear that this is not a legal issue, but an attack by political losers. they're trying to push the idea of a united europe. and this is the map of hungary, depicted on the cultural history carpet: whoever is unable to face the past, will not see the future clearly. just as a frenchman, a german or a pole can talk about the past of his nation, so can a hungarian. i find it very irresponsible and dangerous for our country to be so discredited at a time when we need to be united.
mr president, i congratulate mrs striffler on her report. however, it fails to mention actors who base their commitment on religion, especially christianity. the text of the european consensus does mention the red cross but ignores other actors with the same status in international law but which are based on the christian religion, such as the order of malta. the report thus provides further evidence of the negligence with which the european institutions welcome the involvement of christian actors in humanitarian intervention. religions have not only the obligation but also the competence to intervene quickly in situations of crisis and natural disaster. i would ask the rapporteur to propose an oral amendment to recognize the usefulness and efficiency of those who base their work on the christian faith.
the european union, together with its member states, is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid. and it is our moral duty. the european consensus on humanitarian aid has become a significant milestone, as evidenced by the analysis of the humanitarian aid implementation action plan. however, the report also points to specific weaknesses in the system and other obstacles that impede the effective and rapid delivery of humanitarian goods and services to the most vulnerable populations in crisis areas. i believe that the lisbon treaty, which brings a whole range of innovations in the field of european union humanitarian aid, which is now also a separate policy, will be used appropriately and promptly to improve the achievement of tangible results in accordance with respect for human dignity, humanitarian values and respect for human rights as enshrined in international law, including for example in rapid disaster relief.
with a constantly growing population, we are increasingly forced to address food security, access to adequate, healthy and nutritious food. it is therefore essential to increase transparency and fairness in the food chain itself in order to ensure food safety. ensure fair returns for farmers, profits and price formation, as well as viable agriculture. i personally consider it of the utmost importance to pursue a vigorous rural development policy, which will preserve the viability of rural europe and increase the competitiveness of agriculture, promote innovation and ultimately employment itself. agriculture is of great importance, especially in less-favoured areas, and therefore incentives should be adopted to promote rural agriculture, attract more young people to agriculture and help reduce regional disparities and ensure sustainable development.
madam president, i am glad to see that serbia has shown strong determination and made substantial progress in the integration process. concluding the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) and implementing it are the next important steps on this road. the serbian government should be commended for the actions which have been taken to get to this stage. i am sure that the saa will bring concrete economic and trade benefits for the country in areas such as environment, energy, transport and many others. thirteen countries have so far ratified this agreement. i hope that its ratification by the european parliament will encourage the rest to conclude the process soon. however, there are still challenges ahead for both serbia and the eu. serbia needs to commit to full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia in bringing the remaining war criminals to justice. there is also an urgent need for progress in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and for further reforms in the sectors of justice and public administration. equally, the serbian parliament needs to abandon the practices of blank mandates and the arbitrary allocation of parliamentary seats. finally, the dialogue between serbia and kosovo will, i hope, be put on the right track and will guarantee ordinary people better prospects for the future. the european parliament has always been a strong supporter of the integration of the western balkans. serbia is a crucial part of that with this commitment . .. (the president cut off the speaker)
first of all, i would like to support the signing of an association agreement with the republic of serbia. serbia was and still is an influential balkan country. but for years, the people of this country have been paying the price for the mistakes of their political leaders, whose adventurous decisions have put the country in a difficult political situation. however, if we want to stabilise the political situation in the balkans in the long term, we must have open and fair relations with all the countries in the region. serbia must therefore be a valued partner for us, as well as other stable countries in the region, in order to help its people integrate as quickly and as effectively as possible into the community of free, democratic european countries through open dialogue and good cooperation.
first of all, i would like to stress that belgium took up the rotating presidency in a difficult situation, not only on the internal political scene but also, of course, globally in the world. therefore, all possible failures of the union cannot be attributed to it. on the contrary, i would argue that belgium has done an excellent job of mediating the trilogue between the commission, the council and parliament. under belgian leadership, progress has been made in the important area of banking supervision and regulation at least partially. negotiations on the regulation of hedge funds, holding companies and credit rating agencies were concluded in october. i could imagine more ambitious measures in this particular area, but i think belgium has managed to coordinate at least the things that are possible and to make at least some progress. the field of international relations was also of particular importance. the union has succeeded in formulating its diplomatic service and belgium has also proved to be a skilled mediator. so let me conclude by congratulating belgium and thanking it for its presidency and expressing the hope that hungary will follow the example of your presidency.
mr. president, i have to go. the world's food production is facing increasing challenges today. one of these is climate change, which unfortunately can cause unpredictable food shortages and thus jeopardize the ability of the world's growing population to meet the needs of over 9 billion people by 2050. the cap must clearly respond to the challenges posed by food security, climate change and the economic crisis. not only competitiveness, but also traditional agriculture, small and organic farming, local values must be encouraged. climate change is increasing the number of natural disasters, reducing the potential for exploiting large areas of land, thus threatening food security. in order to achieve the above objectives and to ensure reasonable food prices and a fair income for farmers, the cap budget should be maintained at least at its current level. it is therefore important to treat agriculture as a strategic sector for food security. that's why i supported this report.
i would like to begin by expressing some disappointment at the council's position on the directive on the application of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare, as the council did not adopt many of the good amendments of the european parliament at first reading. the european parliament has already laid a good foundation, at first reading, for correctly adjusting the rules for the cross-border provision of healthcare in the member states so that patients can, in justified cases, obtain the necessary outpatient or hospital care in another member state, in compliance with the rules laid down and without burdening the courts. it is therefore good that the preparation of the report in the committees for the second reading has succeeded in maintaining the continuity of the original philosophy expressing parliament's position at first reading and in moving the currently opaque situation in the provision of cross-border healthcare towards a dignified solution to this problem. the compromise text based on the case law of the court of justice, which has been tabled for today's debate, offers our citizens new possibilities and a new quality of care for their health, and therefore, in my view, it is necessary to strive for the swiftest possible implementation of this directive in everyday life.
let me congratulate my colleague, mme grossetête, the rapporteur, and the father of this directive, john bowis, for the tremendous work on this standard, which aims at safe and quality cross-border healthcare. i would certainly stress the need for such regulation in view of the ambiguous treatment arrangements for patients abroad, which have caused uncertainty, especially in the case of rare diseases. i am very pleased that the regulation contains special provisions for these patients. i support the rapporteur's line that this legislation is for patients who need it, and not just for those who have the means. the regulation thus represents a significant step towards patient mobility within the eu. the agreement with the council is a balance between the positions of the member states and the european parliament... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. other the free movement of labour and the development of tourism require a solution to the problems of cross-border healthcare. the rules on access to care and reimbursement should be clear and well known to the citizens of the member states. the aim is to enable citizens to receive, without prior authorisation, in any member state, the non-hospital and hospital care to which they are entitled in their own member state, and to be reimbursed for the costs thereof, up to the limit set by their own system. the risk of abuse, as referred to in the case of medical tourism, should not be an obstacle in this case, but of course everything must be done to minimise it. i should stress that the proposal concerns the mobility of patients within the union, not the free movement of services. it should be noted that a well-constructed system can also provide added value in terms of exploiting spare capacity and avoiding logistical losses. in some cases, rapid border interventions can save lives. another important aspect is that cross-border healthcare is also of great importance when a disease is not adequately treated in one member state but is available in another. i consider the proposal to be balanced, a compromise between the reservations of the member states and the ambitions of the european parliament.
the commission's communication on a european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other dementias improves the fragmented measures and existing disparities in access to treatment and leads us to improve the health and social conditions of an increasing number of such patients, also in view of their increasing share in an ageing europe. the directive also addresses healthcare professionals in this area and provides training, which i very much welcome, and support for family members. we already have problems, with up to 1.4 million new cases of some form of dementia each year, and early diagnosis, prevention and related issues, such as the dignity of such a patient, should therefore lead us to vigorous action. there are also affected persons, especially family members, who are subject to a great deal of social stigmatisation. the idea is that society can help and financially reward those who care for a dementia patient in a home setting.
− although the effects of the devastating earthquake have been gradually alleviated and removed, the population is still suffering from serious problems. whether it's lack of drinking water, food, or other basic materials. it's just their daily problems and their daily misery. add to this an unstable government with no democratic values, as well as an epidemic of cholera, widespread crime, looting, kidnapping, and the rape of women and children. it is therefore necessary to take steps to prevent such reprehensible acts. the european institutions must continue to work to mitigate the consequences of the disaster. aid must continue to focus on complex challenges in 2011, in particular on housing reconstruction, meeting basic needs within communities or stabilising the situation in temporary camps. at the same time, it is necessary to pursue longer-term objectives such as the completion of public institutions, local governments, schools, hospitals, etc.
author. - i must say frankly that we do not understand what is happening in lithuania, or perhaps even better, that we are disappointed and disgusted by it. while it seems that we in the european union have made progress in at least knowing what basic human rights are, a signal comes from one of the member states that this is not true at all. the considerations of banning by law, for example, the promotion of non-heterosexual relationships, seem to us to be incredibly regressive and totally ignorant of what we have achieved in recent years in the field of human rights, both here in the european parliament and in cooperation with you, the commission. protecting children's mental health is just a poor excuse for a complex political agenda. we must and we want to protect children. we want to protect them, in particular, from violence, from poverty, we want to provide them with conditions for education, security and personal development. but all of us, or most of us, know from personal experience that children are not averse to the displays of affection and love and the promotion of non-heterosexual relationships. i am therefore convinced that it is no longer appropriate to discuss with the proponents of such views, madam commissioner, and to try to explain things to them all the time. they tried to explain to them how their views were woefully mistaken. in my opinion, we need to act in a very rapid way. it must be said unequivocally that homophobic legislative efforts are in clear contradiction with the fundamental principles of the european union, they are in clear contradiction with the treaties, with the charter of fundamental human rights and with the european convention on human rights. they do not respect freedom of speech and information and freedom of assembly, as well as the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. i would also like to ask, commissioner, if such a law is passed, will the commission initiate infringement proceedings against lithuania?
why is this parliament dealing with a bill introduced by a member of the national parliament? i ask you, when did we start dictating to the legislators of the member states what they can and cannot discuss? this debate and the motions for resolutions we're voting on tomorrow are not about the current statute. they concern a non-binding text which is the subject of a debate in the parliament of a member state of the european union. the law that potentially threatens media freedom in hungary is the law in force. but most of us eventually came to the view that before we got into it, we should give the hungarian government time to change the law if necessary. if nothing else, let's be consistent with this. ladies and gentlemen, let's wait for this resolution to be debated in the lithuanian parliament.
the hungarian government took over the presidency of the european union on 1 january, and it reminded us of this with a so-called cultural carpet. i won't talk about the map, i'll talk about the culture you brought to brussels. rare symbols, portraits of personalities your people are rightly proud of, on the ground, underfoot, in public spaces, trampled and defiled by people from all over europe. does that sound cultured to you? is this a worthy representation of a proud hungary? i don't know what led hungarian diplomacy to disrespect the symbols of its own history. she could have put them on the panels or walls of the same atrium with dignity. just look, viktor, where in this hall are placed the symbols we hold dear? they're in the place of honor, decorating the president's table. i know, mr. prime minister, that your country has many problems, but i am convinced that the proud hungarian people do not deserve such disrespect for their personalities and symbols from their own government.
i'll get back to the prime minister of hungary. mr orbán, welcome to the european parliament. hungary is taking up its presidency at a time that is certainly not easy, and the programme you have presented to us is certainly full of great challenges. you have asked us several times to help as a parliament to implement this programme, and believe me, mr orbán, we are really here to support the good and european aspects of your programme. but your speech also called for a strong europe, and i must say that i am not entirely clear where your europeanism begins and where it has its limits, because otherwise i cannot explain why your government began its presidency by presenting a non-existent territorial entity instead of offering, as the country holding the presidency, a new vision of europe. so, mr orbán, i wanted to wish you that the good european in you will continue to develop positively and that the positive hungarian in you will also continue to develop.
the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and serbia will create the basis for close and lasting relations based on reciprocity and common interests and will contribute to political, economic and institutional stabilisation in serbia as well as in the balkans as a whole. it is also a new opportunity for serbia to transform and prosper through the overall restructuring and modernisation of the economy. however, i am convinced that serbia must continue to consolidate democracy and the rule of law, make greater efforts to reform the judiciary and public administration, apply the principles of justice, and overall strengthen the administrative and judicial structures. i consider that the resolution of serious human rights violations and the related close cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia are essential conditions for serbia's integration into the union.
the right to adopt national legislation shall be vested in the legislature of the competent state. and this right of a sovereign state cannot be interfered with from outside. lithuania has its own sovereign right. in the context of the european union, it is also necessary to recall that the definition of marriage and the family is a matter for the family law of the individual member states alone and that the european union has nothing to do in this area. the protection of the family, which educates and prepares children for life, must therefore not be perceived negatively or in any way discriminatory. as regards the protection of minors from the harmful effects of public information, the european parliament also recently agreed that the various types of advertising disseminated through the new communication media have become a social phenomenon in recent years. the phenomenon entails intentional misrepresentation, distortion of information and the risk of abuse of trust, to which the state must respond appropriately. research shows that underage children deserve special protection from certain types of information that can have far-reaching consequences for the healthy development of the individual. and i say that as a doctor.
baroness ashton, allow me to address you and appeal to you strongly on this issue, where it is simply unacceptable for us that christians in the middle east continue to be subjected to such cruel attacks. the commission has also received comments from the member states. these are countries that have been home to them - to christians - for centuries, and they don't want to leave. it is reprehensible that in many cases islamic clergy, in their addresses to their congregations, promote anti-christian sentiments. in northern iraq, people were afraid to decorate their homes. in baghdad, gunmen stormed the city, shooting 52 people and wounding 200. in december, we had the opportunity to meet the iraqi bishops who visited the european parliament. they stressed that they needed our support and that of the entire international community so that religious beliefs would not be a reason for innocent death. where are we? in this context, let me mention turkey, which is making significant efforts towards european integration, but which prohibits the establishment of christian religious communities or congregations. we in europe allow minarets, they don't reciprocate at all. and i also want to ask, where are all the human rights defenders, animal rights defenders, etc.? i would normally ask myself if we should not form a group to protect christians in the world.
mr president, it is very disturbing to see an increase in the incidence of vicious and violent attacks on christians and their communities. those responsible are mostly fanatical islamic extremists. it is pure hate. it needs to be stopped and it must be stopped. the eu and its institutions, including this house, must increase pressure on governments where these incidents occur, particularly in those countries where the state has weak policies or turns a blind eye to such incidents. here, we value and protect each and every life; we severely punish anybody who endangers human life; and the punishment is more severe if attacks on life are against any minority and motivated by hate. we need to insist that other countries provide similar protection of people’s lives and severely punish any perpetrators of these heinous crimes, and we need to assist the countries concerned in these respects. we all know the grave potential if nothing is done and the current growing trend is not stopped. the best efforts of the entire civilised world should therefore focus on reversing this dangerous trend.
the european union must not be silent, must not react only when christians are dying and being driven from their homes. the european union's defence of christians is inadequate, because the union is in the grip of the terror of political correctness, which suppresses freedom of religion. the ideology of secularism ties our hands and stifles freedom of religion. the union is hard to protect and defend against christians in the world because it does not respect christian philosophy. some of our colleagues have also had problems with the speech of religious leaders in our parliament. this parliament refused to condemn the abduction of the archbishop of mosul, who was subsequently murdered. the political group in this parliament has made sure that the pope is accused of human rights violations. the commission failed to mention christian holidays and, let alone, crosses in italy. i am delighted that a european observatory on christian intolerance has been set up in vienna and i think it will have a lot of work to do.
mr president, i fully agree with my colleagues in suggesting sanctions against top lukashenko cronies and providing support and assistance to the belarus opposition, ngos and ordinary citizens. the joint motion for a resolution mentions the possible move of the 2014 world ice-hockey championship away from belarus if political prisoners are not released. this is a reasonable and extremely effective tool. mr lukashenko is an avid hockey fan and so are the citizens of belarus. such a move would certainly raise attention and many questions across the country. the ihf is the body in charge of such a decision. it could be a chance to improve their tarnished image, caused by admitting to the ihf council a former high-ranking kgb officer and communist spy in the usa and a person who helped to defraud hundreds of thousands of citizens out of billions of dollars. when the time comes i hope the ihf will make the right decision.
the report presented confirms that we still have considerable reserves in the european union in the area of fair competition. the agricultural sector is a prime example of this, where the european union and individual countries are entering this environment through various subsidies and aids, thereby significantly distorting the competitive environment. agricultural enterprises in the new member states in particular are suffering greatly as a result of the european union's incorrect subsidy policy. another area where the competitive environment will need to be fundamentally adjusted and improved is transport. i therefore consider it very important to accept the proposals of the committee on transport and tourism, which point out clearly the distortions in competition, even between different modes of transport. in any case, the report is stimulating and good, and it will be important that it is also used effectively to improve the competitive environment in the european union.
the commission's report is set in the context of the economic and financial crisis. but the report is good, says our resolution. there are, however, areas where improvements can be made in the near future. the main focus is on prevention and proper information. without cooperation, we cannot get out of the crisis, and it is therefore very important that the commission keeps us informed of the progress already made. compliance with and enforcement of the eu competition rules is one of the keys to the success of the single market. for example, in the energy sector, there are also raw material markets that need to be made more transparent. similarly, competition is not fully ensured in all segments of the energy sector. the implementation of the second internal market package and the third energy package is therefore urgent. the call for a more thorough examination of competition in another sector, agriculture, is very timely. we need to know, through research, which big suppliers and distributors are distorting competition.
experience from several member states shows that even six years after the adoption of council regulation (ec) no 1/2003, no positive progress has been made in the uniform application of the competition rules. when deciding on a dispute, national courts do not exercise the right to request information or an opinion from the european commission on the case in question, nor do they exercise the right to refer a question to the court of justice for a preliminary ruling, nor does the commission exercise the right to intervene as an amicus curiae. practice shows considerable problems of judicial enforcement practice in this area, with a significant departure from the established case law of the european courts. i therefore called on the commission to pay attention to the decisions of national courts and to take the necessary measures to achieve this objective. the challenge is embedded in the competition report and i supported the final text of the report.
in 2007, when romania and bulgaria joined the eu, the black sea became part of the european union's internal sea. from a strategic point of view, this is a very important area in which we need to deepen our involvement. it is essential that parliament develops a new strategy, while providing adequate financial and human resources in the form of a specific eu budget line. the new strategy should serve to ensure peace, stability and prosperity in the black sea region and guarantee the energy security of the union. the diversification of supply routes and sources needs to be further promoted, and i would therefore like to stress the importance of the development of planned lng terminals in black sea ports. transit routes in the region can also significantly improve the security of eu supply. the eu is committed to the further deepening of cooperation between the black sea countries, which is essential for the success of nabucco, the trans-sadrian gas pipeline and the pan-european oil pipeline. that's why i supported the report.
the murder of the provincial governor of punjab, salman tasir, is a particularly outrageous backdrop to this act of violence. the fact that this murder was carried out with the tacit approval of the pakistani clergy and that the local lawyers supported the murderer means that killing for reasons of religious intolerance is tolerated in pakistani society. pakistan's blasphemy laws allow for the persecution of religious minorities, including the threat of the death penalty, as faced by asia bibi, a mother of five who is awaiting her sentence in prison. so we really cannot be indifferent to this activity. our pressure on the pakistani administration is entirely legitimate and i expect all the free and democratic forces of the world to respond in the same way. we cannot tolerate today, in the third millennium, the brutal ways of the dark ages, carried out by tyrants who abuse the faith.
let me first express my condolences and sorrow to the people of pakistan over the loss of such a prominent political figure as governor salman taseer. i am concerned that persecution of people of faith and religious groups, including christians, continues in the country, as there is a case of a woman who is awaiting execution under sharia law, under the blasphemy law. the continued presence of islamic extremist elements within the pakistani security forces does not contribute to the stability of the country and clearly erodes confidence in the country's adherence to the rule of law. i therefore hope that the reform process in the country will be deepened and i would therefore like to call on all political forces, but also on religious institutions, to promote more strongly the principles of moderation, tolerance and mutual respect between communities.
human rights activists and lawyers in iran have been persecuted for a long time, and the detention and conviction of lawyer nasrin sutoudeh is a sad part of this persecution. the iranian regime has also treated activist shivi nazahari, lawyer mohammad seifzad and lawyer mohammad olijafar in the same way. and other activists are facing a similar fate. the repression in iran is escalating and our efforts to improve the situation are having no effect. the will of the government to power against those who have reservations about the regime is already reaching a point where it is necessary to start seriously considering changing the policy towards this country and considering other options to put more effective pressure on the iranian administration in order to help the iranian people breathe more freely. of course, it won't be easy, but i think it's our duty to try to change the situation in iran.
through monitoring for more than two years, we have seen the gradual degradation of democracy, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom of religion in the countries that are the subject of our discussion. the election results in these countries are clear evidence. totalitarian regimes do not come into existence overnight. despite the undeniable signals, the european union has not clearly taken a stand on the side of respect for human rights. unfortunately, even now, we are one of the last to take a common position. i ask: why did we create the union for the mediterranean during the french presidency? shouldn't we have diplomatic means to negotiate stability in this part of the world? for decades, the european union states have supported these governments, mainly by economic means. now, the same people are starting to think about how to freeze accounts, how to support the opponents of the government. isn't that a form of hypocrisy? the situation in the mediterranean is a lesson in the disregard for human rights. for example, freedom of religion is not respected and can become a weapon of radicals and terrorists, and then it's the beginning of a totalitarian regime. i say this because there are many other countries that have similar developments.
we are witnessing a lot of tension and conflict between the government and civil society in tunisia and egypt, which had to be legitimately created due to serious, long-term and government-ignored problems in the economic and social sphere. physical violence during clashes is most deplorable and only confirms the strong need to support the peaceful transition to democracy from outside. and so the european union should be quick to focus all its resources on strengthening the rule of law and human rights in these countries, including religious rights, and we do not want intolerant and militant islamists to take over the government. in the context of maintaining good neighbourly relations and security in the region, activities aimed at strengthening civil societies, building a healthy opposition and ensuring democratic elections should be focused in order to prevent the usurpation of power by extremist radical groups.
the european external action service has a large number of staff, experts and analysts. our experts should therefore be able to assess the social situation in both tunisia and egypt in a professional manner and advise you on the appropriate steps that europe can take to help the people of these countries overcome the problems of unwanted political leaders. however, the austerity of the policy we have so far presented in relation to civil unrest in african countries raises some doubts about the ability of our foreign service to act. madam high representative of the european union, with the prolonged delay in providing a professional response to the current events in tunisia and egypt, our taxpayers will rightly ask: why are we paying this many and varied officials in the european union's foreign service when they are unable to provide you with an immediate professional response to the tumultuous events in europe?
we were very worried about the riots that would follow the referendum and i'm glad that the referendum was peaceful and valid. but it is necessary, as lady ashton said, to ensure that a proper second referendum is held in abyei, but also in the area where the oil is located. the european parliament's observer mission will also be necessary for this additional vote. even after independence, south sudan will remain one of the poorest countries in the world. the project will be implemented in the framework of the eu-russia partnership agreement. i also stress the role of the local church and church organizations, which should find a place in our support. they have established and run several schools and medical facilities and are highly respected in the area. one more thing, after the partition of sudan, we should not forget the minority of south sudanese who fled to the north from persecution and have been living there for many years. if north sudan doesn't recognize dual citizenship, as president al-bashir promises, sharia will apply, and they could become second-class citizens.
tb is one of the great pandemics, along with malaria and aids, that are decimating the population of developing countries, especially africa and asia. the direct consequence in these countries is a deterioration in their socioeconomic situation. but even the nations of europe have not coped with the high incidence of tuberculosis. this disease cannot simply be considered a medical-pharmaceutical problem or a human behavior problem. these are also issues of development and human integrity and justice that require a global approach. those who are sick with tb in developing countries are also victims of injustice because their treatment is inadequate and of not the same quality as in the developed world. more research is needed, and new drugs and vaccines are constantly being developed to respond to new complications and resistant strains of various pathogens. but i would like to draw your attention to these simple heroes who are fighting tb, so that we can continue to treat the sick, to overcome the difficulties that tb and aids combined create, and to help all countries meet the millennium challenges, we need to support the health workers in developing countries. health-care workers are also leaving for richer countries because of reduced health-care budgets in their countries. i support the tb vaccine initiative, but our approach to tackling this disease must be global, and it is not enough to just support research and the pharmaceutical industry, even though that research is still a long way off.
i would like to emphasize that tb is far from being eradicated, and we see here that practically two million people a year die from this serious disease. i would say that it is good that we have recognised, and i welcome the commission's initiative, that we are no longer just talking about aids as a pandemic, but that we are now talking about tb, which is killing millions of people, in one breath. i agree that more resources should be put into developing new vaccines. of course, as the commission has just said, we don't have the new vaccines yet, we're still in the preclinical stages, and we're still testing their effectiveness in real human trials. i would like to call for (i'm closing, madam president) new funding, additional resources.
in writing. i understand the commission's request for more flexibility in funding politically sensitive projects aimed at promoting democracy and human rights. but i am also firmly convinced that if this parliament is to give the commission a freer hand in funding such projects, its control role must be preserved. because ultimately, it is we who are responsible to the citizens for the eu budget. but when we talk about financial instruments to promote the spread of democracy, legal certainty and respect for human rights, we should also talk about the effectiveness of these instruments. whether we can promote democracy and human rights in more effective ways. in discussing the persecution of christians around the world, the eu high representative for foreign affairs assured us that every bilateral cooperation agreement now includes a clause on democracy and human rights. underpinning any financial assistance or trade agreement with the fulfilment of these commitments might help to spread democracy and respect for fundamental human rights more than supporting various more or less meaningful projects.
sorry for the hesitation. thank you, mr. florenz, for your professional excellence. waste electrical equipment is one of the fastest growing waste streams in the eu. we must do everything we can to recycle them in a professional manner so that we can not only prevent environmental and health damage but also reduce the loss of raw materials. current impact assessments show that 85% of the e-waste generated is collected, but only 33% of it is professionally processed in accordance with the requirements of the directive. unfortunately, there is a high level of illegal waste shipments outside the eu, and it is important that the new directive is able to prevent this. the waste must be collected selectively, so that it can be kept within a member state and sent for recycling. unfortunately, our experience so far has shown that the current directive has not been interpreted in the same way by the member states, and i would therefore like to propose that from now on the classification into individual categories should not be the criterion, but that the directive should cover basically all electrical and electronic waste. i think the legislation is particularly important for the newest countries, as they are still lagging behind in the area of separate waste collection.
the amendment of the e-waste directive was the subject of extensive comment in the relevant committees of the european parliament. the amendments tabled by meps have gradually modified the text prepared by the commission, and the current compromise text takes the issue of e-waste collection further forward. of the amendments, i find the wording of article 47 proposed by the environment committee particularly useful, as it will allow the financial obligations of industry to be orientated towards the development of an e-waste collection system rather than towards the implementation of penalties in the event that the collection targets set are not achieved. this can be beneficial and useful especially in countries that do not yet have a sufficient collection infrastructure for e-waste. i would also like to support the new article 93 which responds to the fact that many of the obliged parties, especially online shops, are evading their obligations. the new provision attempts to address this problem in a sensitive and correct manner.
i welcome the agreement reached in the long and acute legal dispute over the banana trade, which has brought to an end a long period of uncertainty and destabilisation in banana producing and trading countries. the agreement on trade in bananas will also have a significant impact on other developing countries focused on banana exports, which will need assistance to adapt to the significant changes in the competitive environment on the world market. the accompanying measures programme must therefore also address the pressing issues of the social consequences of adaptation. i therefore agree with the proposal to examine the impact of this agreement on the regions concerned with a view to establishing appropriate measures to mitigate undesirable effects.
the european parliament's debate on the landfill directive has introduced a number of amendments to improve it. i supported the amended version of this important directive. the directive will enable electrical equipment manufacturers to provide purchasers with information on the cost of collecting, treating and disposing of waste in an environmentally sound manner when purchasing products. the transparency of the market in the provision of information to competent authorities, distributors, exporters or customers shall be increased. awareness and acceptance of recycling and reimbursement will increase. it is important that the financial obligations of industry focus on the development of an efficient e-waste collection system, rather than on the payment of penalties in case of failure to achieve the set collection targets, unless the country has a sufficiently developed waste collection infrastructure.
waste electrical and electronic equipment is growing rapidly in the european union and its inefficient disposal and unskilled collection pose a serious problem for the environment and human health, as well as a waste of materials and resources that are not unlimited. in the light of new knowledge gained during the application of the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, it appears necessary to adapt appropriately certain parts of that legislation which have so far caused considerable practical application problems. i therefore agree with the provisions leading to greater responsibility on the part of producers and consumers for the proper disposal of such equipment. however, as regards the objective set out so far, i would point out that this objective does not take account of the very different economic conditions in the various member states. the percentage of the quantity placed on the market over a given period of time would, in my view, better reflect the specificities of the member states and their particular situation on the electricity market.
in writing. - i support the tb vaccine initiative. i consider it a moral obligation for us europeans to take on some of the responsibility not only for research and finding new medicines but also for helping poor countries to train health personnel and to build at least a basic health care network. solidarity between peoples must go beyond national and continental borders. if we stop feeling this solidarity, we stop being human. and it was in the name of preserving humanity that i could not support the text of the resolution that was passed. because this text also contains a reference to the killing of unborn children, which most in this parliament understand as part of reproductive health. i abstained because i cannot agree that the fight against the tuberculosis pandemic in the poorest parts of the world should be associated in any way with the inhuman practice of usurping the right to decide on the life and death of an unborn child.
in writing. the waste crisis in the campania region has recently caused serious problems in italy. therefore, the eu legislation on waste management in the region needs to be strictly enforced. i find it regrettable that the authorities have resorted to violence against people who were peacefully protesting against the opening of new landfills. the italian authorities must ensure that all necessary measures are taken for the proper collection, separation and treatment of waste. i believe that the cost of cleaning up a polluted area should not be borne by the taxpayers, but by the polluters, using the polluter pays principle. but we can only achieve a sustainable solution to their problems if we actively involve citizens in the process. i'm against politicizing the issue and using it as a pretext to attack the italian government.
since 2000, the european union has been trying to increase cooperation between its member countries in the area of patent protection. however, the latest round of negotiations, held last december, confirmed that several member states have serious reservations about the proposed solution for translations for european union patents, which is based on the current language regime of the european patent office. therefore, the positive unanimous decision of the council necessary for the further common procedure cannot be reached. in such a situation, it is therefore natural and logical that those member states which are aware of the need to improve the cooperation of the member states in the protection of intellectual property should seek to establish enhanced cooperation between themselves in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection, in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 20 of the treaty on european union. i am convinced, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that the european parliament will not stand in the way of such enhanced cooperation between those member states which wish to cooperate.
for the efd group. at the end of last year, the european commission presented a communication action plan for the european union strategy for the danube region. section 2.1 of the communication discusses the challenges and opportunities that a joint coordinated approach by the participating countries can bring to the development of the region. one of them is the use of the danube water flow for efficient and ecological transport of goods. we know that the current carrying capacity of the river is well below its capacity. however, with the completion of the broad-gauge railway, which will carry goods from vladivostok across asia, the caspian region, russia, ukraine and to the port of vienna near bratislava, the importance of the danube river route will surely increase sharply. in my view, therefore, in order to revive and boost economic growth in the region, it is necessary to review the green water projects already in place, which will not only reduce the risks and consequences of flooding, but also improve the river's navigability and enable the production of cheap, clean electricity from renewable sources. it is certainly worthwhile to mobilise existing funds, especially from the cohesion fund, if we can find a suitable mechanism for this.
the danube strategy could be nothing but an empty text if it is not implemented together with the financial backing. that's what we're talking about here tonight. but on the other hand, it's good that multimodal transport is one of the main directions. i know that, for example, the river port on the danube or in vienna or in bratislava, after modernisation, will be a very important contribution to the theme of multimodal transport, so that not everything is transported by trucks, which of course degrades the environment. the recent conference in bratislava on the danube strategy, with the participation of the slovak deputy prime minister, mr jan figeľ, and the minister of transport, in one person, outlined the main directions and the participation of all danube countries participating in the strategy. environmental issues, the cleanliness of groundwater, but also the prevention of natural and ecological disasters, are all areas which must also be incorporated in a reasonable way. and i trust that this strategy will not affect the allocation of structural funds in the future for other regions.
when i was a kid, i used to bathe in the danube, and i always had oil stains and i smelled like oil, so i hope that's going to change in the future. today the situation is completely different, and in the future, when this danube strategy is implemented, i think, and i very much hope, that with the cleaning of the danube the differences between the regions will gradually disappear. i regret that there is no specific financial framework and that it is included in the cohesion policy, which is absolutely right, because if you go along the danube, you see the enormous differences between the regions. it is also a good strategy because the danube connects the old member states with the new member states and is an inspiration for us to homogenize and develop these regions. we can take a very good example from the baltic states' macro-region and put into practice a lot of positive impulses based on their experience, especially in environmental issues.
i would like to comment on the issue of the collection and storage of umbilical cord blood, which is a generous source of stem cells. by taking cord blood from newborns, which was previously discarded along with the placenta, we can obtain painlessly for the mother and the child a significant source of undifferentiated stem cells that can be modulated and used successfully at any time in the future to treat blood cancer, but also at least seventy other diagnoses. i would therefore like to ask why less than 1% of stem cells are taken at birth in europe, and (i would) of course agree with the commissioner who says that it is mainly for the member states to regulate this, but certainly the commission can help, together with the member states, to improve the provision of information to parents about the benefits of stem cells in the light of the advances in cell therapy and regenerative medicine, and i am speaking as a former rapporteur for the directive on advanced therapeutic modalities.
in writing. we heard from commissioner dalli that the european commission has a very cautious attitude towards the issue of cord blood stem cell research. and no wonder why. the commission proposed and pushed through a huge package of money in the 7th framework programme to support the controversial research on embryonic cells and is afraid to admit that this research has not lived up to expectations. moreover, it is now clear that research on stem cells derived from the bodies of unborn children is nowhere near as fruitful as research on cells derived from umbilical cord blood. the blood that until recently was considered biological waste. in the light of the latest reports of successful trials, even of treatments with cord blood stem cells, how does the commission intend to continue to defend the morally unacceptable production of human embryos for research purposes? and why has commissioner dalli not presented to us today, instead of a silent opinion, a concrete plan for how the commission intends to increase the percentage of cord blood taken at births? i believe it's only because his subordinates are already working hard on such a plan. i assume that the commission will also propose a mechanism in it to relieve parents of the burden of paying for the collection and subsequent storage of cord blood. and i expect that part of that plan will be to reevaluate the priorities of stem cell research.
a citizen of the slovak republic and the european union, four-year-old adam azab was forcibly separated from his mother in egypt in november 2008. both the slovak and egyptian courts have ruled that the child should be placed in the mother's care. the baby's father, an egyptian national, is ignoring this ruling. the egyptian police and the ministry of interior are unable or unwilling to locate the whereabouts of little adam. his mother, katarina azab, spent two and a half years in egypt looking for her son with the help of the slovak embassy. the unrest in egypt forced the mother to return to slovakia, but without her son. she continues to live in fear for the life and health of her child. i call on the commission and parliament to intervene swiftly and defend the fundamental rights of their citizens. i'm asking for your help in returning little adam to his mother.
after complicated negotiations in the conciliation procedure, a complicated agreement was reached on the wording of the regulation on the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport. although the regulation in preparation only covers scheduled services on routes longer than 250 km, it also introduces new rules and better protection for passengers in bus transport. the most significant benefit for passengers will probably be the definition of their rights in cases of cancellation or missed connections, whereby the carrier is sanctioned for failures in the organisation of the transport up to the obligation to reimburse the entire fare, as well as compensation for further damage up to 50% of the fare. the only problem which i think could be better solved are the time-table exceptions which allow member states to postpone the application of this directive for 4 years with a subsequent extension of this deadline for another 4 years. the total time limit of eight years for the implementation of this directive seems to me to be too long.
russia is one of the european union's most important and closest partners. it's a country where democracy doesn't have a very long tradition, and you could say that russia is just getting used to democratic governance. we also have to realize that this is a country that is still struggling with the persistence of islamic terrorism, and therefore the role of the security forces is more important in society than in our country. from this point of view, even occasional deviations from our accepted standards of democratic functioning of the state must be assessed in principle and sensitively. it's good to talk to our russian friends about all the things that are bothering us about the way the russian authorities are running the country. but this dialogue must be substantive, partnership-based, motivated by efforts to improve the functioning of the democratic system in russia and not by lecturing some self-appointed watchdog of democracy in the world. let's talk to russia as a friend, correctly, openly and decently. we should have a common interest in peace, harmony and prosperity in europe.
the current services directive requires all eu countries to remove bureaucratic obstacles and make life easier for entrepreneurs. however, the implementation of the directive is not yet complete. the main areas of concern are non-compliance with the scope of the directive, delays in setting up single points of contact, deficiencies in administrative cooperation or differences in peer evaluation. the report i supported considers it very important to put the single points of contact into practice as a matter of urgency. it would be possible to equip it with everything necessary for the cross-border provision of services, including comprehensible information on the formalities and administrative procedures of the country concerned. services account for up to 40% of the union's gross domestic product. removing unnecessary barriers and bottlenecks can go a long way in increasing competitiveness and creating jobs.
every year, more than 70 million passengers travel by bus or coach in europe. it is high time that a regulation comes into force that will protect the rights of passengers in the same way as air, sea and rail transport. passengers will have 12 fundamental rights valid for any transport distance. in addition, for journeys of more than 250 km, compensation for delay, assistance in the event of accidents or death, compensation for damage to or loss of luggage, and better information will be available. but for small countries in particular, the 250 km limit is absolutely off the charts. i appreciate that passengers with reduced mobility will be entitled to special assistance, as is already the case with air transport. in the future, i will certainly support the introduction of a common regulation that will unify the existing regulations on passenger rights in the different transport systems, which will greatly make the whole system of passenger rights of citizens more transparent.
the rights of passengers in bus and coach transport, which is frequently used in the european union, require clear legislation, as is the case with air, rail and maritime transport. i consider the final text of the proposed regulation to be a satisfactory compromise. i am particularly pleased to see the adoption of 12 fundamental passenger rights for all passengers of this mode of transport, regardless of distance. i particularly welcome the recognition and consideration of the special needs of disabled people and persons with reduced mobility. the guarantee of the right to compensation for loss of or damage to a wheelchair or other mobility equipment and the training of bus or coach staff in the field of transport of disabled persons are becoming important tools in the fight against discrimination and often social exclusion of these persons.
if the european union is to strengthen its competitiveness and become a world leader in innovation, its creative potential must be adequately safeguarded. however, the european union patent system suffers from many shortcomings that hinder the creation of uniform patent protection, but also the development of the internal market, thus reducing legal certainty for inventors and innovative firms. providing uniform protection for inventions in all member states through the existence of a single european patent granting procedure under a uniform system of patent law would clearly make the complex system transparent, while at the same time bringing about cost reductions, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, which have to incur costs up to three times higher than, for example, those in the united states. as the efforts to create unitary patent protection throughout the european union have not met expectations, given that all the legal conditions laid down for enhanced cooperation in the area of creating unitary patent protection are met, i agree that the european parliament should give its consent.
the codification of those provisions of the existing texts, together with the amendments referred to above, will undoubtedly bring the necessary clarity to the legislation on radioactivity in food. however, i believe that, in the context of the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, it is desirable to reconsider the legal basis of the draft regulation, which must also take account of the new powers of the european parliament in the field of public health protection. in that regard, i share the view that article 168 (4) (b) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides the legal basis for the proposal, since the direct objective of the measures adopted on that basis is the protection of public health, as is the case with (i quote) 'the establishment of maximum permitted levels of contamination in food and feed'.
i think we're talking about a problem that is pan-european. we must know that europe must act in solidarity and unity. today we have the problem of italy and the refugees from tunisia, but tomorrow it could be from algeria, from egypt, perhaps from libya, from where already thousands of people are coming to us from the past. of course, there's a problem if we don't have the council. the council is not concerned with this problem. i regret that the council is not here today to listen to what parliament is debating, and i think that we must find solutions together with the commission that are legally clean on the one hand and, on the other hand, as my friend kelly said, we cannot accept all the refugees coming from north africa to europe. this is certainly not our goal and those who do not deserve political asylum must be returned to their country of origin.
changing demographics and increasing life expectancy are prompting us to develop a new strategy for our pension system. we need to redefine the future of young people and the elderly to ensure sustainable, secure and adequate pension flows. there are great differences in pension systems across europe. while western european countries are struggling with the problems of current and future rising costs, the newly joined countries are trying to solve the problem of creating a diversified system. in 2008, four employees supported one pensioner, in 2020 five will do the same. this is due to the fact that young europeans are entering the labour market later due to their more comprehensive and longer training and the fact that workers are employed for less than the statutory retirement age. we need to build a system that is sustainable and provides pensions in the light of the situation in the member states. the possibility of free movement within the union should also be taken into account. we need to assume that the new generation will also require mobility for an efficient and effective labour market. the link between the first and second pillars, which in the various member states already partly overlap, and the third pillar, which should also be closely linked, is essential for the future reform of pension systems. we must also work to eliminate illegal employment, which is also very important in preserving our pension system.
i would like to support the proposal for a directive which has been tabled, amending the 2001 directive on the prevention of the entry of falsified medicinal products into the legal supply chain. the significant tightening of control rules as well as sanctions is required by the markedly deteriorating market situation, where the number of detected counterfeit medicines in legal circulation has recently increased sharply. making matters worse, counterfeiters in their quest for profit have moved from counterfeiting nutritional supplements to counterfeiting vital medicines used to treat infections, heart disease, or cancer. such forgeries can then have fatal consequences for patients who are unaware that they have been the victims of fraud and that the pills they take are only imitation medicines that do not cure them at all. therefore, it is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to stand up against this dirty business with the lives and health of our citizens.
mr president, the political crisis in albania has lasted for far too long now. yes, it is not deadlock, it is not a stalemate, it is a protracted political crisis. it is hurting the reputation of the country, its citizens and their ambitions for a european future. we should not allow this political crisis and tensions to go any further. what we need now is to send a common message that we want to have albania as a candidate country, but political leaders on both sides must show the will to solve political problems in full respect for the rule of law, the constitution and on the foundation of democratic institutions. we have tried for too long to help find a solution to the situation without any tangible results. we strongly condemn the violence which took place in the streets of tirana during the demonstrations on 21 january. the events that cost the lives of four people need to be properly investigated. albania is awaiting the local elections of may this year. this will be another check on democracy in the country. again, now is the time for the political leaders to concentrate their efforts on finding guarantees that the elections are not going to bring further tensions and prolong the crisis. in concluding, i wish to emphasise the importance of the political messages and proposals contained in the speech by commissioner füle at the beginning of this debate. the best possible contribution parliament can make in this situation is to put all its weight behind these proposals and accordingly send a clear joint message to the albanian political parties.
since the 2009 general elections, political tension has persisted in albania resulting from a close election result that defeated political forces have described as electoral manipulation. the albanian socialists, led by edim rama, accuse prime minister sali berisha not only of electoral fraud but also of responsibility for widespread corruption and deteriorating living conditions. on january 21, more than 20,000 protesters gathered in the albanian capital tirana to demand the resignation of the government of sali berisha, a protest rally organized by the opposition. however, the police response, using water cannon, tear gas, and rubber bullets, claimed four lives and injured more than 150. the brutality of the police intervention, as well as the fact that sali berisha awarded all members of the security forces who participated in the repression of the demonstration extraordinary rewards of one month's salary, is clear evidence that the albanian prime minister is buying the favor of the security forces and is trying to win them for his support and turn them against the albanian people. in decent, civilized countries, the government is usually decided by the citizens, the voters, and not by bribed police or security forces. if mr sali berisha has forgotten this elementary principle of democratic governance, then in my opinion he has no place at the head of a democratic state. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that none of us wants to see governments in europe that build their power on electoral fraud, corrupt policemen and are represented by petty dictators who do not know how to hand over power in a country to others. that is why we must be more forceful in defending democracy in albania as well.
for the efd group. the use of special surveillance equipment is a sensitive issue in every country. we often hear suspicions that the government uses them not only to fight organized crime but also to monitor and suppress political opposition. the situation in bulgaria is, however, particularly curious. when information obtained by intercepting phone conversations under unclear conditions doesn't end up in the relevant files, but appears in various media. the bulgarian prime minister even stated that the highest state officials are also constantly being bugged by the intelligence service. allegedly in the interest of fighting corruption and organised crime. well, it's not often that a prime minister admits that he has such great confidence in his closest associates that he has to have them watched so that they don't slip into the temptation of corruption or cooperation with organized crime. in any case, the situation in this area is peculiar in bulgaria and i think it would be good to help our bulgarian friends to sort things out in the application of the relevant legislation.
for the efd group. since october 2005, when the decision was taken to open accession negotiations with the european union, croatian governments have made extensive changes to their country's administration in order to prepare croatia as well as possible for its expected accession to the european union. the most significant progress in the accession process was achieved last year, 2010, when our croatian friends managed to conclude negotiations on several complex chapters and make fundamental changes to the constitution, as well as to make progress in the civilized settlement of border disputes with neighbouring countries. the official visit of serbian president tacic to vukovar showed that relations between croatian and serbian citizens can also be built on mutual respect, esteem and understanding. the pace of finalizing the accession process is now in the hands of the croatian party, which, after fulfilling all the conditions for the country's accession to the european union, must also ask the citizens of its country for consent to such a step in a national referendum. i sincerely hope that our croatian friends will be able to close the remaining chapters quickly and that they will be able to confirm their readiness to become part of the european community in the popular vote.
in writing. croatia, as a candidate country, has been undergoing a difficult preparation for eu membership since 2003, when it submitted its application. this process requires deep reforms, often very unpopular with the population. as a member from slovakia, who only underwent this difficult process seven years ago, i am in favour of croatia and believe that croatia will close the remaining 10 chapters as soon as possible. since the division of yugoslavia and the end of the war conflict, croatia has made great progress in a very short time in infrastructure, services and tourism, which is the country's dominant sector of the national economy. as a tourist who visits croatia every year, i think croatia belongs in the family of eu countries and together with my colleagues i will support its entry.
the four council guidelines for employment policies should remain in force in 2011. the guidelines on upskilling would probably have found their implementers on the basis of the demand and supply principle even without state intervention. increasing women's employment requires such intervention, but before we do, member states should recognise the work of mothers caring for their children and their contribution to gross domestic product. let's not give jobs to people who have enough of them. the state should therefore focus on combating poverty and social exclusion, as few people can climb out of the poverty trap on their own.
it is estimated that in the european union today, approximately 1% of the total amount of medicines that reach patients legally through the pharmacy network are counterfeit. this percentage is constantly increasing. it's about people's health. counterfeit medicines may have different effects from the pills prescribed by your doctor. they can be life-threatening. counterfeiting is a crime and must be subject to specific sanctions. the new legislation i support brings more security features as well as sanctions for counterfeiters. it defines a control system to improve the identification of medicines so that in the future the flows of medicines can be traced from the manufacturer to the consumer. the new rules also cover the sale of medicines via the internet. it is one of the most widely used means of bringing counterfeit products to the european union markets.
i was happy to support this report because, according to who estimates, as my colleagues have already mentioned several times, there is a high level of counterfeiting of medicines in the european union. this number is growing, and we need to do everything we can to make sure that counterfeit medicines do not get into the supply chain. this does not threaten the entire pharmaceutical system, but it also undermines people's trust in pharmacies, not to mention the fact that counterfeit medicines may contain an active ingredient that does not meet the standards. it is estimated that by 2020, the number of counterfeit medicines could reach 42 million, posing a major threat to europe's economy. the pharmaceutical industry in europe has a turnover of €170 billion a year. we must prevent unfair competition by foreign manufacturers who market medicines whose manufacturing process cannot be controlled. i also think it is important to discuss issues such as the sale of medicines on the internet. with the help of virtual pharmacies, we can also access products on the world wide web that clearly require a doctor's prescription to purchase. not to mention, it's the easiest way for counterfeiters to get their products into the supply chain.
if we are forced today to vote on a report on the protection of patients from falsified medicines, it is partly because the market liberalism advocated by the european commission has opened the door to the market for falsified products. unregulated competition leads to the falsification of medicines for the benefit of companies. the consumer is the victim. i voted for this report even though i am not entirely convinced that the definition of counterfeit is the right one. in addition, it is not entirely clear who should be punished when a counterfeit medicine is found. but this is a first step in the right direction and we shall see in a year's time whether our action has been effective.
we're breaking the standard that says fake drugs. we know that after weapons, drugs, the pharmaceutical industry makes the biggest profits, and it's no coincidence that criminals are focused on falsifying medicines to mislead our fellow citizens, our patients. how often a drug that is supposed to treat cancer or heart disease contains no active ingredient at all or only a small percentage, and this is actually a crime that endangers the health, and how often the life, of the patient. it is good that we have adopted principles in this text, new principles that tighten the punishment of those who commit criminal activity in this area, and i am glad that europe has taken a step in the right direction. of course, selling on the internet, but also selling through the normal, classic delivery system, which often sells counterfeit medicines, will be better controlled.
from the practical aspects of the review of the european union's instruments to support the financing of smes, i would like to highlight in particular the problems of external financing. it is clear that a large number of smes will continue to rely mainly on loans and credits. it is worrying that the banking sector is demanding ever more collateral and higher risk premia, which reduces the possibilities of financing and exploiting business and employment opportunities in these businesses. i therefore consider it necessary to strengthen individual programmes at member state level, but also to increase the european union and the european investment bank's resources for innovative financial instruments. the continued use of guarantee instruments in conjunction with revolving financing, that is to say, the use of risk-sharing financial instruments such as the expansion of microfinance institutions, should be encouraged.
i supported the report, even though the green paper prepared by the european commission is inadequate. strategy 2020 is a vision of the future. the green paper has opened up a debate on the real future, but it ignores reality. the whole green paper is about one theme: let the old people work. the authors of the green book did not even try to find a solution where life begins. they used the word "woman" together six times. the word family three times, and the word child even only once. i therefore think that the commission should make its white paper much more comprehensive, highlight the importance of motherhood and women's informal work, listen to the association of families from across europe and include a new imperative in all its policies and strategies: family mainstreaming.
the differences between pension systems in the member states are enormous, reflecting the fact that this area is and should remain a primary competence of the member states. however, some consultation seems to me to be necessary, as the european union and the member states must urgently seek solutions to new economic and demographic challenges, such as the expectation that the ratio of the population aged over 65 to the working age population will rise to 53% by 2060. and there's only two workers for every retiree. in this context, it is natural that average public expenditure on pensions and ageing-related expenditure will increase and that it will become increasingly difficult to provide adequate pensions. therefore, it is necessary to stimulate people's participation in the labour market, to increase employment rates and economic growth. and the importance of the family is not sufficiently emphasised, as my colleague zaborska said, no one is talking about having children, and that will improve our pension system.
mr president, croatia is one of the countries which should have been members of the european union for a long time. i voted for this report and i congratulate the rapporteur. i thank commissioner füle for having expressed the keyword of european integration policy: mutual loyalty. however, i regret that the aspect of religious freedom has not been sufficiently studied. the accession of croatia to the european union does not mean the abandonment of the traditions inherent in the croatian people. religion is one of them and i insist that in the future the croatian people be respected also in matters of religious freedom. here too, it is mutual loyalty and the richness of diversity that should theoretically characterize the european union.
accession negotiations with croatia are entering their final phase. croatia has shown over the past year its willingness to continue the necessary reforms, in particular by adopting substantial amendments to the constitution, but also by aligning legislation with the acquis communautaire, and i would also like the hungarian presidency to conclude the accession negotiations with croatia. i appreciate the significant progress made in the areas of public administration, economy and justice and i also welcome croatia's active cooperation in the prosecution of war criminals. on the other hand, widespread corruption remains a major social and economic problem which must be tackled, possibly with the assistance of the european union, so that this negative phenomenon does not subsequently spread to european structures, and i believe that in a popular vote, in a referendum in croatia, the citizens will confirm croatia's decision to become a new member state of the european union.
the food crisis caused by the exceptional crop failure of the past year has highlighted the shortcomings of our agricultural and food policy. yes, the current increase in food prices can be partly attributed to the crop failure. after all, when something is scarce, the price of the scarce commodity naturally rises in the market. the problem, however, mr commissioner, is that the lack of agricultural products in europe is largely due to the incorrect agricultural policy of the european commission, which has long discriminated against the new member states and their farmers through its subsidies policy. it is not surprising, commissioner, that farmers, when they do not receive a price for their products that covers at least their production costs, simply do not sow the crops and sell the herds. they will wait calmly for hungry and rightly indignant citizens to turn their anger against those officials in brussels who have not addressed the farmers' problems, which are widely and publicly known, for a long time. you know, commissioner, the shortage of agricultural products in the new member states is not caused by poor harvests, but by your subsidy and price policies, which make it no longer worthwhile for our farmers to produce. but they'll wait. and if someone gives them the same subsidies as their colleagues in france, they'll plant.
even in the context of what mr verhofstadt was saying here, it is quite clear that the egyptian democratic opposition forces have failed to organize a unified representation of the revolutionary forces from the street. it's one thing to oust a dictator, it's another to implement a democratic regime. one of the essential experiences of the revolutions of 1989 in central europe was the ability to immediately create a real organization that would represent democratic secular revolutionary forces. there's a space here somewhere where the european union should help. maybe it's more important than financial and other things. they're important in the next phase. who's going to sit down at a table at this time and have a real discussion with the military leadership? who will really go to the polls as the representative of these democratic forces? this is not a final question and there is a place where the european union could help. if we succeed, then we don't have to worry about the egyptian way in iran, but on the contrary, we can be sure that the egyptian way will be realized in iran. the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
thank you so much for asking. i think that even today, the experience of revolutions against dictatorial regimes is universal enough that we have to worry about our advice interfering in the internal affairs of other countries. no doubt, back in the 1980s, we knew and consulted many people from abroad. we could rely on our historical experience. there are lots and lots of things that can be advised in these countries, and i think that if the advice is sensible, it is acceptable.
i would like to express my deep regret that this debate has taken place today, because we all know that the task of objectively clarifying misunderstandings and issues related to the hungarian media law is the responsibility of the european commission, and this is ongoing. i think it is unreasonable for parliament to take a position on a matter which can be successfully concluded within a matter of days. but i am aware that we are the actors in a hysterical left-liberal political campaign, and that the form the law itself will ultimately take may not matter. what is important is that our political opponents, with their usual humiliating methods, attack a country where last year, after eight years of socialist rule, the political forces of the center-right won a landslide victory and can finally finish clearing the remains of the sad communist system. this includes redefining the boundaries of journalistic ethics and media culture. i ask you: where were these critics, who were indulging in the role of progressive democrats, when in 2008 the left-wing nationalist government of robert fico in slovakia passed a controversial media law riddled with sanctions? yes, they were here then, and like tigers, they protected the law, which is still in force today. i strongly condemn and reject this double standard and call on my distinguished colleagues not to be swayed by political incitement and to entrust the professional assessment and closure of the problem to the competent authorities, the commission and the hungarian government. please be aware that repeated attacks on the government of the country holding the presidency of the council, in an otherwise crisis-ridden period, could pose a serious threat to the eu's unity and international prestige.
in my country, we have a saying that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. i do not want to question the good intentions of our hungarian friends to modernise the rules of the media environment, but the current debate confirms that perhaps some provisions of the new law should have been formulated more sensitively. however, the large number of changes and reforms that the hungarian administration decided to implement in a short time may have caused the possible consequences of some provisions of the law to be somewhat forgotten. the same is likely to happen with the hungarian dual nationality law, which is likely to cause a number of unnecessary problems not only for us europeans but also for our foreign partners. how will our american and canadian friends feel when they soon see hundreds of thousands of ukrainians and serbs moving around their country with european passports issued in hungary by distant relatives, descendants of the inhabitants of the former old hungary? i don't know, maybe this bill was passed with good intentions.
since the negotiations began in may 2007, the fta with south korea has gone through a long and difficult path. despite the clear benefits for both parties, some key sectors of european industry were exposed to serious risks. i too have expressed my reservations on the floor of this house and have called for a fair and balanced playing field. the solution was a bilateral insurance policy. i would like to thank mr robert sturdy and mr pablo zalba for their leadership in the role of rapporteurs, as well as all the other participants. their combined efforts will make the eu and south korea billions of euros richer. from july 2011, the real winners of this agreement will be the consumers and citizens of both parties.
the renewal of the mandate of the european investment bank for a further period confirms that the current partnership between the european union and the european investment bank is delivering positive results in meeting the policy objectives of the european union through the instruments of the european investment bank. the new mandate also includes an increase in the budgetary guarantee of the european investment bank covering risks of a state or political nature linked to the operations of the european investment bank outside the european union. in such activities, it is of the utmost importance to ensure budgetary restraint and internal discipline so that the funds invested in activities to support the political objectives of the european union also produce appropriate results commensurate with the financial volume. therefore, a good and transparent mechanism for the continuous monitoring of the supported activities needs to be in place. transparency in the handling of financial ...
thank you to the group for raising this pressing issue. the problem of experts is not just about economics. in other areas too, the commission does not respect the principle of impartiality and balance, and the resulting composition of the expert groups is one-sided and does not represent the interests of all citizens. first example: according to eurostat, 90% of eu citizens support the family of a woman, a man and their children. however, the commission only selects experts from organisations such as the european women's lobby or the family platform that seek to break the model of such a family. on the contrary, the commission has long rejected those women's organisations and experts who, like the majority of union citizens, do not agree with the one-sided feminist theory. the second example is the fundamental rights agency, which the commission has set up and finances. its experts promote a one-sided political agenda without any effort to be balanced and objective. the evidence is the speeches of its director in this parliament. even the european commission distanced itself from the positions on freedom of religion and conscience that were published by the chairman of the agency's independent board of experts, as it was prepared by lobbyists of abortion organizations. i believe that if an official european expert agency raises political interest in expertise and impartiality, it should be abolished. i could name many more cases like this. i therefore join my voice to the questions put to the commission by my colleagues. i ask the commission to open the windows in the experts' room because the air is not clean there. and it's not just the economic side.
the european commission has recently revised its framework document governing the functioning of expert groups. given that we all have an interest not only in the best possible functioning of the institutions of the european union but also in the transparent and honest creation and functioning of expert and advisory bodies, we would welcome greater openness on the part of the european commission in applying the mechanism for selecting experts for the european commission's expert groups. the example of the agency for medicinal products, which was mentioned earlier, where the list of experts does indeed raise some doubts about the independent provision of expert advice. we should therefore, commissioner, work together to avoid any doubt about the competence, balance and independence of our advisory bodies. if we feel that the framework for expert groups has some reservations despite the current revision, let us think about it and try to improve it further.
i'm going to vote on the bipartisan safeguard clause. i support the adoption of a regulation on the implementation of the eu-korea free trade safeguard clause. i also support all the amendments calling on the commission to ensure that this legal instrument is implemented correctly and in a timely manner in order to prevent serious damage to the european union industry, and to take account of the legitimate interests of member states with specific economic situations in certain manufacturing sectors when applying it. the effect of a free trade agreement on the industrial sectors of the member states will be different, and therefore there must be the possibility of applying in exceptional cases safeguard measures at regional level, and i believe that the regions concerned must be able to apply measures to avoid a serious negative impact on the regional economy and employment.
in the context of the revision of the budgetary guarantee granted by the european union to the european investment bank, i support in particular elements designed to increase the dynamism of this institution. the bank's capital needs are also expected to be reduced by around eur [0-5] billion in the first half of the year. i also support the intention to allow the european investment bank to reinvest paid-up risk capital, and in particular loans from previous operations, in new operations of the same type for the benefit of partner countries. in order to improve access to financial resources for poorer groups in eligible countries, an additional mandate of eur 500 million for the financing of micro-credit should be granted to the european investment bank without delay.
the eu-korea free trade agreement will bring countless benefits to european industry, businesses, entrepreneurs and workers. it will contribute to overall economic growth and open up impressive new opportunities for european goods and services. however, certain sectors will be exposed to additional competition and the eu should therefore ensure effective monitoring of the implementation of the agreement, the swift settlement of disputes and the subsequent prompt protection of the legitimate interests of european industry and entrepreneurs. it is clear that strict compliance with labour, technical and environmental standards as well as provisions to protect healthy competition must be ensured by both parties. goods and products entering the european market must meet all the standards of the european union and, in the automotive sector, i welcome the establishment of a monitoring committee to help prevent so-called hidden protectionism through new technical barriers to trade. i am therefore in favour of giving final approval to the agreement in question, provided that a bilateral safeguard mechanism is also established to prevent any serious damage to the industries of the member states or even the very threat of such damage.
egypt is at the beginning of its democratization process. i think that all those victims who lost their lives in revolutionary moments should be redeemed by a solid path to democracy. europe should certainly help egypt in this, and i believe that we will find the tools to prevent egypt from going in a totalitarian direction, for example, towards an extreme muslim militant movement that does not respect democratic rules and that would also be an obstacle to democratic elections and the exercise of civil society. a society that is fair to all citizens, including non-muslims, including christians, and i believe that even in the new conditions, egypt will uphold its international treaties with its neighbors, including israel.
in writing. - the european union has a commitment to solidarity that is directly rooted in our christian heritage. even those who would like to remove christianity from the public sphere recognize that the eu must cooperate in development aid. but this solidarity is directly derived from the christian teaching on the dignity of every human being and the moral imperative to help those in need. the european investment bank is becoming an important instrument of the union for poverty eradication in the least developed regions. as such, it is primarily intended to help, and for this it needs financial guarantees. but it should also remain a bank, an institution that does not spend but invests efficiently. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the granting of the eib guarantee.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the situation in egypt because, for someone who puts the dignity of the human person first in the conduct of public affairs, democracy is the best form of government of all. and that's true in europe as well as egypt. but at the same time, i had to think about iran, where the overthrow of the corrupt autocratic shah led to the creation of an unfree islamic republic. i had to think about the elections of the palestinians, who in their first democratic elections elected terrorists and violent people to their government. i thought of iraq, where six years after the overthrow of a dictator, members of the oldest christian communities in the world are being persecuted, expelled and killed. and i pray that this time it goes well. egypt is at a crossroads and i only hope that it chooses the path of freedom for all its citizens, including the coptic christians.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on the rule of law in russia, although i believe that this is not the last such resolution that we have discussed and voted on in the european parliament in relation to russia. but i am hopeful that the political will has been found in parliament to address critical words to the state on which europe's raw materials supply is largely dependent. europe and russia are doomed to cooperate, and not just in the field of industrial production. we are two parts of one civilization, our histories are two interpretations of one set of values. if this civilization is to survive, these two views of universal values must converge. i would like the russians to see our critical resolution as an attempt to find common ground and at the same time as a reminder that certain specific actions and practices of the state power are in sharp contrast with this value base.
in writing. − food security is a central issue for europe, which is why it requires a strong cap and cannot be achieved as an objective without addressing the two most important issues of our time: the volatility of markets and prices and dwindling food supplies. the current rise in food prices is due to the growing speculation in agricultural and food products, investment funds investing huge amounts of money in food price speculation, thereby forcing consumers to pay prices that are many times higher than the cost of production. price increases exacerbate the problem of access, especially for those on low or no income. food expenditure is a major component of household budgets, accounting for more than 60-80% in developing countries and 20-30% in the eu's less developed member states. financial instruments must serve the economy, help agricultural production to cope with severe crises and climate events, and therefore speculation must not be allowed to jeopardise agricultural production. i condemn speculation in agricultural commodities and raw materials, which contributes to increasing price volatility and deepening the global food crisis, and therefore agree and support that the future cap cannot be effectively tackled without strategic stocks against large-scale price volatility, and that the role of market intervention instruments should therefore be strengthened.
for the efd group. by a judgment of the international court of justice of june 15, 1962, preah vihear was ruled to be under the sovereignty of cambodia. it is up to the thai government to respect this fact and not to try to change the internationally recognized borders by military force. at the same time, it is up to the cambodian government to allow thai worshippers access to this temple. in a situation where one of the parties to the dispute is inclined to pursue its interests beyond this rule by force, it is necessary to mobilise the international institutions to make it clear by their verbal intervention that the world wants to live in stable political relations and does not want to resolve disputes by military force. it is therefore appropriate to activate the relevant international institutions to prevent the spread of unnecessary conflict and trauma to the civilian population. indonesia's offer as the asean chair country to mediate in the border dispute is the best solution to find the first step as a way out of this situation.
for the efd group. the un convention on the rights of the child and the international covenant on civil and political rights are documents the application of which the yemeni administration has committed to accept. both cases of convicted juvenile offenders are subject to the regime under these documents and therefore it is not possible for any judicial authority in yemen to issue a legal decision that would deny the rights and protections under these documents. penalties imposed in breach of the country's existing obligations and therefore of the law in force cannot be accepted. if the yemeni government claims that its power is based on civilized democratic principles, then it cannot use barbaric forms of rule based on arbitrariness and injustice. that is a fact which i think we must make clear to the yemeni government today.
i agree with the rapporteur that the turbulence in the financial sector has caused serious problems not only for our citizens but also for most of our business entities. the debate on the innovation of the rules governing the management of european citizens' savings in banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions is therefore entirely legitimate. however, its important conclusion should be to promote the responsible and safe management of our citizens' savings and to eliminate all speculative and risky transactions where the savings or future pensions of small savers are lost in the pockets of speculators. the main thing is to have better, more comprehensive rules, accepted globally, which would, while pushing speculation and gambling out of the financial sector, not unnecessarily harm savers or clients. we should only deal with sanctions or extraordinary taxes after we have successfully reformed our financial sector, which unfortunately is not very credible today.
last week, the slovak vice-prime minister, ján figeľ, a former european commissioner, negotiated in brussels the transfer of funds from the operational programmes informatization of society, science and research, education and inclusion totalling eur 350 million to the operational programme transport. highway construction is also needed. but as we have adopted strategy 2020, and especially in times of crisis, we all need to realise that removing barriers to employment growth, addressing new social risks or focusing on education, science and research is the first prerequisite for economic growth. the transfer of funds requires the agreement of all commissioners. i am convinced, together with slovak educators, scientists and other citizens of slovakia who do not approve of this transfer of funds, that individual commissioners will advocate employment, education, science and research, where eur 350 million would bring enormous benefits, while in transport it would represent, although necessary, only 11 kilometres of motorways.
the european union must take a firm stand against belarus as soon as possible. there is no communication with a regime that has political prisoners and that cannot allow civil society and a free media to express themselves freely. the situation after the elections showed that the power of lukashenko is not limitless. the eu should take advantage of this and help the country get out of the authoritarian regime. the specificity of this is the responsibility of post-communist countries based on the experience of regimes similar to the one in belarus. our attitudes must therefore be principled and based on values. the eu must also isolate those responsible for the election fraud, cut off contacts with high-ranking regime officials and freeze their assets. on the other hand, the circle of friends who share the same values and principles as those common to the eu needs to be widened. we need to offer an alternative to the current development as soon as possible, on the basis that a country with an authoritarian regime has no future in europe.
in april 2009, the first human case of swine flu was reported from mexico. two months later, the world health organization declared a flu pandemic. the disaster scenarios presented by health authorities, including the world health organization and the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), have led countries to take the lead in how to procure as many vaccines as possible to protect their citizens as soon as possible. following the recommendations of the who and the ecdc, the slovak republic also purchased more than one million vaccines delivered in early 2010. but when the chief sanitation officer of the slovak republic called for vaccination, he was laughed at, no one believed him. not to him, not to our reputable european health organization, the ecdc. by then, everyone knew that the h1n1 virus was not as dangerous as it had initially appeared. only the who and the ecdc remained tight-lipped. no reassessment of the situation, no additional recommendations, just nothing... )
i want to thank mrs. rivasi for her comprehensive report. it has revealed weaknesses in health safety systems, not only at european but also at global level. the report also offers a long list of measures to be taken to avoid a repeat of the situation in 2009 2010. what happened with the pandemic of h1n1 is a scandal. the member states of the european union, including slovakia, have spent hundreds of millions of euros to protect their citizens from a threat that does not exist. it would be interesting to see who benefited. it's also about who's responsible for the situation. the report i submitted lacked only one thing: a proposal to introduce personal responsibility into the health safety system. because while alibism isn't fatal, it spreads faster than the flu.
each person is unique, with different abilities, priorities, and ways of life. out of this natural inequality comes the motivation to be better the motivation that drives the economy. but addressing health inequality is more about humanity than economics. because in sickness and suffering, all men are equal. you can't trade in suffering. that's why doctors take the hippocratic oath, not, say, businessmen. addressing health inequalities is based on the value of human life. but the absolute right to abortion, which is also defended in the report, calls that value into question. mandatory public funding of abortion takes away health care from its moral imperative and degrades it to a luxury we can't refuse.
in writing. eu agriculture and international trade. as agriculture is not just an economic activity and agricultural and food policy must serve fundamental objectives such as food and food security, the main challenge is to effectively align commercial and non-commercial considerations. the eu is the largest importer of agricultural products from developing countries and imports more than the usa, japan, canada, australia and new zealand combined. if we give these countries increased market access, it could have a detrimental impact not only on european farmers but also on the developing countries that need it most. the eu should therefore take a more balanced approach across sectors in trade negotiations and promote both defensive and offensive agricultural interests. the eu's agricultural sector is a key player in the europe 2020 strategy in the face of various socioeconomic challenges. the eu's trade policy has an important and decisive role to play in ensuring that agriculture continues to make a positive contribution to the achievement of the objectives. i agree that trade policy should not hinder the dynamism of the eu agricultural sector, on the contrary: trade policy and agricultural policy should support each other.
from a political point of view, i consider it very important that the guidelines for the 2012 budget reflect the economic and financial reality in which it is drawn up. at a time when member states are forced to save and our citizens are suffering the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, it is not possible to count on the budgetary growth dynamics of the previous year. on the contrary, we must look at the areas in which we can save our citizens' tax money without reducing the quality of our work. some reserves, i think, we have right in our labor organization. the three seats of the european parliament and the regular movement of thousands of staff and members from brussels to strasbourg twelve times a year are well known to the public. such a waste of public funds, ladies and gentlemen, can only be called a disregard for reality. any talk of austerity will be untrustworthy until this circus of moving to the european parliament is abolished.
madam president! today parliament has opened a debate on two subjects based on the reports by my colleagues - and i congratulate them on this - on which it is indeed difficult to say anything new, because the situation has remained almost unchanged and in recent years it has, in a sense, even worsened. for example, in the debate on the pay of women and men, we say year after year that the gap is still large, even though the treaty of rome already established the principle of equal pay for equal work in 1957, and we have even had secondary legislation since 1975. true, if we were to list the laws in force but not effective, this would certainly be a strong contender for one of the first places. the latest statistics are about, as i've already mentioned, the current difference in the latest statistics is 17.5%, but some of you may remember that a few years ago it was 15%, and the variation is very high. and this is not a small business or a big business problem, and it's not just a women's problem, it's a social justice problem. i cannot say enough that the wage gap, as my esteemed colleague has said, is more or less a punishment for motherhood. and it's created when young women are coming back into the workforce. and that's the real big problem is that small businesses will never solve society's problems. what parliament has asked in this respect, namely that the distribution of pay by sex should be transparent and that those who persistently violate the principle should at least not receive the aid provided by the european funds, is not, i think, very much. it's true, there's progress, there's a little bit of progress, the introduction of "equal pay day", but actually the big achievement would be if it wasn't on march 5th, but on january 2nd or 1st.
it's important that we talk about women's poverty today. but it's also a pity that in the search for solutions, we're still trapped in a one-sided mindset. the solution to women's poverty is not just violent intervention in the family environment. recent oecd research shows that this intervention has had only limited success. women spend more time than men on housework and child care. and even when a man takes parental leave. not because they have to, but because they want to. and they're more likely to reach out for part-time work. according to oecd calculations, 30 to 50% of all women's economic activity does not appear in current measures of well-being, such as gdp per capita. the solution to women's poverty is therefore also to recognise the work they create in solidarity between generations. by recognizing this work, we're taking a fundamental step toward solving poverty.
in writing. the current economic and social crisis is having a very negative impact on the living conditions of eu citizens. it seriously threatens the female part of the population, especially in the areas of gender equality, working conditions and access to employment. women have been severely affected in terms of working conditions or income levels and unless appropriate measures are taken immediately, the situation is likely to worsen. it is also important to take into account the position of women in the fight against poverty. at the global level, statistics show that up to 17% more women than men live in poverty. the contribution of women to the development of the family and society is similarly underestimated. and it is inequalities between men and women, especially in access to education or the redistribution of family responsibilities, that are leading to the deepening of women's poverty. the gender pay gap, or the so-called glass ceiling, which prevents women from holding managerial or executive positions, also has serious consequences. promoting gender equality is a kind of fight against violence against women. regardless of the severity of physical, psychological or sexual violence, it is imperative to combat its various forms. this is another reason why it is desirable for eu governments and the european institutions to support mechanisms aimed at achieving gender equality in various aspects of social, economic and political life.
let me explain briefly why i did not support the resolution that evaluates 2010 from the perspective of equality. the text of the resolution promotes equality between women and men in several areas, but also supports abortion termination of life. this text contradicts united nations resolutions that say that abortion must never be used as a means of birth control. by adopting this resolution, the european parliament not only interferes with the competences of nation states, but also ignores the right to life enshrined in the charter of human rights. i regret that the majority of this house has voted in favour of this text. this is an alarming signal and i call on national organisations and associations to protest to their members of parliament who represent them in the european parliament.
in writing. − as agriculture is not just an economic activity and agricultural and food policy must serve fundamental objectives such as food and food security, the main challenge is to effectively coordinate commercial and non-commercial considerations. the eu is the largest importer of agricultural products from developing countries and imports more than the usa, japan, canada, australia and new zealand combined. if we give these countries increased market access, it could have a detrimental impact not only on european farmers, but also on the developing countries that need it most. the eu should therefore take a more balanced approach to trade negotiations across sectors and promote both defensive and offensive agricultural interests. the eu's agricultural sector is a key player in the europe 2020 strategy in the face of various socioeconomic challenges. the eu's trade policy has an important and decisive role to play in ensuring that agriculture continues to make a positive contribution to the achievement of the objectives. i agree that trade policy should not hinder the dynamism of the eu agricultural sector and that is why i supported this report.
in writing. − the problem of poverty in europe is a persistent negative phenomenon that affects many europeans, and especially women. more and more women are finding themselves in need, and according to the latest surveys, up to 17% of women live below the poverty line. the position of women in europe remains inadequate and has been worsened by the economic crisis and the restructuring of the public sector, which was the largest employer of women before the crisis. in the context of the eu 2020 strategy, which is principally aimed at reducing poverty by 25%, specific solutions related to the issue of women's poverty should, in my view, be sought and developed more intensively. i would like to highlight the invaluable contribution of women to the healthy development of the family and to the education of children, which must not be adversely affected by discrimination against women, because such undesirable phenomena have serious repercussions on society as a whole. i therefore support initiatives that lead to the reduction of unjustified differences, to the improvement of the status of women in society not only in the legislative framework but also in everyday life.
i would like to start by reminding my esteemed colleague, vice-president verheugen, that the european union was created by an agreement of separate sovereign states which voluntarily decided to transfer part of their competences to a new institution - the european union - which they created together for the purpose of jointly coordinating the management of the competences of selected sovereign states. therefore, if european countries decide that they want to create a common economic administration within the rules of the european union, it must be their free and voluntary decision, and in no case a directive from brussels. so it is right that if we talk about a pact, that is, an agreement of sovereign states on deeper cooperation under the auspices of the european union, it is all right. and it is only natural that if such closer cooperation is to take place in the area of economic governance, it must be first and foremost the euro area countries that have committed themselves to using the single currency. but, my friends, let us not be under any illusions. the economic rules, the tax laws in these countries are different, so this process will be very complicated... )
the transformation of turkey into a genuine pluralistic democracy based on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms appears to be a continuing challenge. turkey made no significant progress compared with the previous year in implementing reforms and meeting the copenhagen criteria, whose full compliance is a prerequisite for accession to the european union. weaknesses persist in particular in the area of justice, where the right to a fair and speedy trial is still not guaranteed, in minority and women's rights issues, as well as in the issues of freedom of religion, expression, freedom of the press and the fight against corruption. religious unfreedom in particular is evident. turkey must improve the coordination of its foreign policy with that of the european union, thereby demonstrating its commitment to shared values and interests with the european union. for example, support for the european union's efforts to prevent iran from obtaining nuclear weapons and the signing of the statute of the international criminal court, which turkey continues to clearly delay, should be concrete. i also expect turkey to take much greater action to resolve the cyprus issue by withdrawing its military force from this occupied territory.
the accession of turkey to the european union would have far-reaching economic, political and civilizational implications that the european union has not yet faced in any of the enlargements. despite differences with european culture, tradition and values, however, turkey is not a fundamentalist country and religion is the free expression of each individual. turkey cannot be denied the opportunity to fulfil the criteria for accession to the european union, although it is of course desirable to take more intensive steps to help settle the disputes between turkish cypriots and greeks, and the settlement of the cyprus question could also subsequently contribute to greater stability, prosperity and security in the eastern mediterranean and could help to accelerate to some extent turkey's accession process to the european union. but let me conclude with a sentence. we are here, ladies and gentlemen, as well as colleagues in the commission and in the council, to be honest, and if we say that turkey is gradually meeting the criteria, then let us not talk in advance about some kind of privileged partnership. or let's say turkey, even though it meets all the criteria, it will not achieve full membership in the european union. i think it would be fair on our part.
first of all, i would like to commend the turkish administration for its efforts to bring its political structures closer to the european value system. on the other hand, we cannot ignore the persistent problems of respect for human rights, especially the rights of minorities, women and the suppression of freedom of religion. the most serious problem, however, is that turkey still occupies almost 50% of the territory of our member state cyprus. the european union is thus mediating with turkey in the war conflict. the conflict has taken many cypriots from their homes and still leaves no hope of resolving the lawless situation. i therefore think that the dialogue between brussels and istanbul needs to be more open so that our turkish friends can understand that the path to the european union leads only through criteria which cannot be circumvented. but if our turkish friends do not seem to be prepared to meet the demanding criteria of the european union, it would be decent if they honestly admitted this and offered a reasonable alternative to our living together.
progress in the european integration process is one of the essential factors contributing to montenegro's further development. the country has achieved a degree of macroeconomic stability from an economic point of view and has also made good progress in meeting the political criteria set at the copenhagen summit or the copenhagen council. however, further efforts are needed, in particular in the area of strengthening the rule of law, including judicial reforms, and it is equally essential to continue the efforts already made to combat corruption and organised crime. the same is true of public administration reform, electoral reform and the strengthening of the role of parliament. the exercise of freedom of expression and freedom of the media should also be emphasised. cooperation with civil society, addressing discrimination and the social and economic integration of minority groups, including roma, are also needed. regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are undoubtedly one of the other prerequisites for a successful euro-integration process. colleagues, mr commissioner, montenegro has made considerable efforts to meet the criteria set for successful integration into the european group of 27, and it is therefore appropriate to consider granting the status of candidate country. i believe we can do this.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr tannock, for the excellent report and very good preparation of the relevant resolution. montenegro has made good progress in the integration process. the country also plays a constructive role in maintaining regional stability. it is on the right track, which was confirmed last year by the commission and the council granting montenegro candidate country status. i hope that it will ensure that the remaining criteria for opening accession negotiations are fulfilled soon to enable those negotiations to be started. until that happens, montenegro’s government needs to focus on progress in key areas, which have been clearly indicated. let me summarise them as follows: the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime, election legislation, strengthening parliament’s supervisory role vis-à-vis the government and broader involvement of civil society in interaction with the government, the reform of justice, with continual strengthening of the independence of the judiciary and prosecution, and tackling corruption, which undermines state institutions, economic and social development and the functioning of the public administration. finally, i am glad to see that montenegro is continuously proceeding further in the integration process. that is why i hope that the council will decide to open negotiations with the country really soon.
the visit of commissioner füle last week demonstrates that the commitment of the montenegrin government to european integration is genuine and is the best path for the country towards the european union. the social and political changes that have taken place in montenegro over the past years are a positive message not only for the european union but also for the country's neighbouring states. the wide range of problems that the montenegrin government has managed to face has been praised by the un. according to the undp report, montenegro will be able to meet the millennium development goals, which include poverty eradication, universal primary education, or reducing child mortality, as early as 2015. the eu is also working to develop a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the european union and the united nations. therefore, i personally consider the efforts of montenegro to be extremely important and i fully support the assistance and assistance that the european union is providing to the country and i believe in the country's early future in the european union.
madam president! first of all, i'd like to congratulate livia the walking man. his years of work have reached an important milestone today. after a long struggle, it is now clear that the roma problem is a european problem, and this is true even though my colleague mr borghesio has pointed out that solutions must be found within the member states. but the single european area also requires a single strategy. you can't approach roma strategy from a cultural point of view alone. this isn't just a minority issue. and it's not something that can be solved by social policy alone. it is therefore important that the strategy contains comprehensive measures and sets out targeted and focused objectives. education and access to education should be highlighted as key areas of the strategy. education is a key factor in employability. in several member states, large roma groups are trapped in poverty, while they will never have an adequate number of jobs because they are virtually unemployable without qualifications. special attention should be paid to the education of roma girls, who may be more likely to drop out of school early, also due to the fact that girls are more likely to be exploited in domestic work.
we are meeting again on a very sensitive subject, and i believe that it must be addressed by the european parliament, by the european commission and by the council, because roma inclusion is simply no longer possible at the level of the member states of the european union. socialists and democrats have been dealing with this issue for a very long time. our working group has visited almost all the member states in the last eight months alone, where the situation of roma is often very complicated indeed. we had the opportunity to visit not only the settlements where roma live at a very low standard, but also to see good examples. we also saw examples of very good cooperation at the local government level with the roma who lived in these settlements, and we also saw good examples of local politicians actually trying to address this situation in favour of the roma ethnic group. our problem is that in our societies - and i mean now in those member states where the problems with the roma ethnic group are perhaps more pronounced than in other member states - we also encounter a huge amount of prejudice. i believe that the commissioner will be able to explain to the majority of the population that helping the roma and their inclusion in society is not only in the interest of the roma, but also in the interest of the whole of society and therefore of the majority.
in writing. i think we all know by now that the roma issue is not just a problem for some member states or potential candidate countries. this is a europe-wide problem that must be addressed without delay. the biggest problems preventing roma from being included in the majority society are poverty and low levels of education. education is the key to raising living standards and creating the civic society that is so much needed. job creation is extremely challenging and as a member of several youth organisations i know the current situation of young people in the labour market. among the roma population, this situation is many times worse, resulting in the marginalisation of the roma population and an increase in crime that only exacerbates this situation. not so long ago, france expelled the romanians from bulgaria and romania. these activities were not only scrutinized for suspected violations of basic human rights but also for violations of eu rules. i therefore fully agree with the commission's statement that better cooperation between stakeholders at national, international and, above all, european level should be promoted.
in writing. i feel very strongly about roma issues because i live in eastern slovakia, where the roma population is the largest. i support the motion for a resolution on roma inclusion strategies. today, march 8th, we celebrate 100 years of women's rights. we are still talking about discrimination against women, and therefore when discussing this strategy, it is necessary to speak specifically about discrimination against women from minority groups. across europe, roma are among the most disadvantaged groups in the population. i read mrs járok's statement: 'new generations are at risk of poverty not because of their roma origins but because of their parents' unemployment'. i might add that it's also due to social exclusion. unemployment will continue to persist, especially among the roma population, but the integration of roma into cultural activities, into civic life, is an immediate way. the gender equality problem is more pronounced in minority groups. so when we include roma, let's not forget about dialogue with roma, who have a greater emotional impact on their children and the next generation.
madam president, the police officer. during the crisis, we were able to see the importance of industry in our economy. unfortunately, our policy in this area is often still based on the idea that markets should regulate themselves. in this respect, the europe 2020 strategy is a pioneering initiative, the first to recognise the need for a new approach. european industry must maintain its leadership in key areas and not be allowed to become mere followers of events. we must prioritise the new structure of the financial sector and the coordination of the macroeconomy in tax matters, because only by reforming these can we make our industrial policy a success. we need a new, comprehensive regulatory framework that can bring the financial system back to productive investment. the industrial policy should focus on a globally competitive industrial base and a knowledge-based industry focused on production. but to do that, we need the whole innovation chain. in this case, we are not only talking about technological innovation, but also about product design and quality innovation. synergies within the sector should also be encouraged. for example, the relationship between energy and industrial policy. energy supply is essential and new and growing markets are represented by renewable energy sources, which can thus lead to the creation of new jobs. reliable access to raw materials is also vital, and it is a growing challenge for us. we need to be able to achieve our recycling ambitions while securing the resources we already have. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment and sustainable development. we need to encourage their participation in public procurement as much as possible and provide them with access to favourable bank loans.
the world economy has been undergoing significant changes for some time. new industrial powerhouses are emerging alongside traditional industrial zones. a strong competitive environment is emerging in which we will have to do more and more to maintain meaningful employment for our citizens. in this competition with other industrial centres, we are at a serious disadvantage because of two major obstacles. the first is the huge differences in the legal environment governing the way business is conducted, authorised, resolved or enforced, which hamper the wider opening up of businesses across the borders of member states' jurisdictions. related to this is the second brake excessive bureaucracy, which not only produces no value and consumes money earned by industry, but also bullies those whose work is their livelihood with all kinds of reports, regulations and guidelines. commissioner, no other country in the developing world has the administrative baggage that we have in europe.
for the efd group. compared to traditional gas sources, extraction from non-traditional sources today represents only about 5% of the world's total gas production. non-traditional sources have a lower concentration of raw material than traditional sources. in addition to coal methane or gas hidden in low-permeability rocks or gas hydrates, shale gas appears to be the most promising source. the best experience with its extraction is in north america, where extraction from non-traditional sources accounted for up to 42% of total production in 2007. the international energy agency estimates that europe could also have up to 991 billion cubic metres of unconventional gas reserves. they should be located in particular in poland, germany, hungary, romania, sweden and the united kingdom. between 2007 and 2010, poland issued almost 60 licenses for shale gas exploration and production. the licences are also held by major global energy companies. it is therefore clear from the above that these new non-traditional gas sources are also becoming an attractive alternative for the use of new horizontal extraction technologies.
the treaty amendment is legally necessary for the introduction of a stable euro currency and there is no doubt about the need to introduce a euro area stability mechanism. a mutual assistance mechanism, if set up correctly, can strengthen the union and lead to deeper integration and solidarity between member states. but it should not be limited to him. if the mechanism is to be effective, coordination must be deepened in the economic field, but also in the field of social policies. in any case, i regard the intention to build a mechanism for stability outside the european institutions as a bad sign. the intergovernmental or even private-law nature of the proposed mechanism may set the project of european integration back by several years. i would therefore urge not only the commission but also the representatives of the member states in particular to abandon such considerations. if we are to use the crisis in any positive way, we must give it a mobilizing, not a centrifugal, meaning. the establishment and functioning of the permanent stability mechanism should be as closely linked as possible to the framework of the european union and should be carried out using the institutional procedures of enhanced cooperation. in conclusion, let me express the hope that only the good signals will materialise from the proposal.
several member states of the european union have agreed to create and use a single currency. however, the different economic potentials have meant that for some member states the link to the single currency has complicated the possibility of using standard insolvency procedures. all the countries using the single currency have therefore agreed to set up a mechanism to enable them to deal with the financial problems that have arisen and to prevent them in the future. however, the solution agreed by the countries concerned requires the amendment of article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the acceptance of that solution by all the member states of the european union. however, the responsibility for the single currency today lies mainly with the seventeen countries of the european monetary union, and it is therefore logical that the european stability mechanism should have an intergovernmental character, and the position of the european commission as a simple observer is, in my view, sufficient.
we are talking about roma integration issues. roma live in many european countries both in the west and in the east. it is interesting to note that while freedom and democracy have been secured in western european countries for longer than in middle eastern countries, including my own country or our neighbors in hungary, we face similar problems in both the west and the east. we haven't overcome these differences yet. it's about integrating the roma population, aiming to make them successful in the labour market, to make them healthier than the population. under current laws, access to education and healthcare is guaranteed everywhere, and it is just sad that the roma population often does not send their own children to school to be educated.
industrial policy, as part of economic policy, must aim at sustainable growth, increased employment and a better quality of life for all europeans. european industry is facing strong competitive pressure from developing countries. the union must therefore pursue a proactive policy to preserve and consolidate european industry as a driver of economic growth. the functioning of the internal market must be adequately safeguarded by negotiating favourable terms in trade agreements with third countries, but also by protecting against unfair competition, infringements of competition and intellectual and industrial property rights by third states. the eu has a high potential to gain a competitive advantage in the area of highly qualified human resources and the creation of innovative technologies, which is necessarily linked to further investment in research and development.
mr president, i also want to join my colleagues in the call to support the iranian opposition and provide for better protection of refugees in camp ashraf. these poor people and their families are constant targets of a brutal and vicious iranian regime. adding to their plight is the daily harassment and hostile attitude of iraqi forces who are supposed to protect them. madam high representative, let us not forget these sorely tried people. together we need to ensure that the eu plays a key role in their transition from persecuted opposition to a democratic government. after all, it is in everybody’s interest to see – and hopefully soon – a stable and democratic iran whose citizens enjoy the same freedom and rights as we do here in the eu.
the middle east peace process, i think, is undergoing a stress test these days. the arab world is changing, and few can predict which governments or regimes will take over in arab countries. the situation is further complicated by the fact that the israeli administration has recently provoked the arab world again by building new settlements in the palestinian territories. at a time like this, i think the only option we have left is a strong commitment on all sides. we must convince our israeli friends to refrain from any activities that might provoke the unnecessary anger of the arab population. but at the same time, we must make a sensitive effort and engage vigorously in the arab world, especially in the countries where the future orientation is being decided today, to support decent, democratic political forces that can resolve any disputes peacefully, objectively, without prejudice and without hatred. i know that the road to peace in the middle east will not be easy, but i hope that the israeli government understands today that it has one of the last options for a peaceful, pragmatic settlement with palestine.
for the efd group. in the area of preventing natural and man-made disasters, we have many opportunities to improve current mechanisms. while in preventing natural disasters we must aim in particular at improving the quality of monitoring systems for natural phenomena, be they meteorological changes or tectonic movements, and consequently at improving mathematical models for the evaluation and forecasting of changes, their consequences and the related mechanisms of warning or subsequent evacuation, in the field of man-made disasters we can work much more efficiently. knowing the risks of human activities, especially business activities that threaten the environment, we can already reduce the risk of a possible disaster from any risky activity by taking good regulatory measures. however, the preventive regulatory framework, as well as the systems of supervision, control, sanctions and repression, must be comprehensive and implemented with full seriousness and emphasis. in order to protect the health and lives of our citizens, we must therefore work continuously to improve these disaster protection mechanisms.
i voted in favour of the resolution tabled jointly by the group of the party of european socialists, particularly because, although some changes have taken place in hungary between the preparation of the resolution and today's vote on it, this has really changed very little in the importance and timeliness of this resolution. first of all, i would like to stress our disappointment that the commission has decided from the outset to focus on only three areas in the case of the controversial hungarian press law. we insist that even after the hungarian government and parliament have dealt with these three areas in a relatively acceptable manner, the commission should continue to monitor closely the compliance of the hungarian press law with european legislation in particular, in particular, with the charter of fundamental rights. furthermore, we would like to call on the hungarian authorities to involve more stakeholders, including civil society, in the further amendments to the law, as this is the only way to prepare a law in a truly democratic society. and it is in this direction that the input and recommendations of the european parliament, the commission, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and the council of europe's commissioner for human rights will certainly be encouraging.
i welcome the resolution, and that's why i supported it. but passing a resolution is not enough. in egypt last week, 4,000 muslims attacked a coptic village near cairo. they burned down two churches and prevented the firefighters from entering the village. the army didn't want to intervene at first. when it finally struck, the muslim leaders sent them away saying that everything was fine. a curfew was imposed on the 12,000 christians living in the village. there was a time when europe knew who was good and who was bad and why. with the support of the good, leaders like havel, walesa, and chernogursky were prepared for the fall of communism. today, however, european union politicians are joining hands with dictators and turning a blind eye to the persecution of christians. they don't think in terms of good and evil, because pragmatism doesn't know those categories. until that changes, we can do more harm than good to north africa.
in writing. − iran has recently faced serious challenges in governance, resulting in a growing dissatisfaction among the population. security forces responded with heavy beatings and arbitrary arrests of peaceful protesters. the court has launched mass show trials against students, scientists, women's rights activists, lawyers, journalists and church figures. many iranians have been executed for political reasons, and countless others are still in prison. iran is one of the three countries in the world with the highest execution rates. we must do everything possible to put an end to discrimination and social oppression in the country as soon as possible. that way, we can ensure that this country can embark on a path of democratic change. but this cannot be achieved from outside or even by military means. we must be able to do this through a peaceful, democratic process. that is why i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. − iran, as a party to the npt, has been a long-standing and arrogant violator of its commitments, notably by concealing its nuclear activities. if iran wants to maintain good relations with the eu and other democratic states, it must clearly remove all doubts about the purpose of its nuclear programme. i also find the deepening of iran's relations with turkey, which is assuring the union of the recognition of common values in its quest for eu membership, while at the same time showing open sympathy for the iranian regime, to be a matter of concern to the eu. let me remind you that iran holds the record for the number of juvenile executions and the number of executions per capita in the world. the staged trials of political dissidents, especially the cruel stoning penalty, which is still legally used in iran today, as well as other forms of cruel and inhuman torture, treatment and punishment are characteristics of a regime that deserves equally strong moral condemnation. in addition to the above, the eu's priorities must include a continued push for a moratorium on executions until the death penalty is abolished, a call to end impunity for human rights violations and, of course, to prevent the destabilisation of the region.
for the efd group. islamic sharia law in its precept literally says that anyone who insults islam is condemned to death. i don't know what actions can be considered offensive to islam in the islamic world, but the examples of the killing of human rights and religious freedom defenders in pakistan, as well as in other islamic countries, show us that some islamic clerics consider our civilized values, which give people a broad freedom of choice, to be a threat to their faith, and they do not hesitate to declare a fatwa in accordance with their law on anyone who openly demands respect for human rights and civil liberties on their territory. shabazz bhatti, a minister in the pakistani government, salman tasir, the governor of the punjab province, and naim sabir jamaluddin, the coordinator of the human rights commission of pakistan, have become innocent victims of the fanatical application of islamic law. victims who are not only meant to intimidate the pakistani people into demanding greater freedom, but also the politicians running this country into not reforming the political system and respecting some kind of rules from the dark ages. but if we do not want to put reformist politicians in islamic countries in conflict with their ecclesiastical authorities, we should, i think, seek to find a platform for constructive dialogue with islamic clerics on the peaceful coexistence of civilizations... )
for the ppe group. at last week's meeting of the visegrad four in bratislava, the slovak foreign minister, who currently chairs the group, made a clear reference to president lukashenko in minsk. as long as there is a single political prisoner in belarusian prisons, belarus must expect total isolation in europe. unfortunately, the situation in the country is still critical today, three months after the presidential election. people of democratic minds are being investigated, arrested, imprisoned, held in inhumane conditions as we are discussing today, without access to legal aid and without access to family members. it is therefore important to confirm the european union's approach to the last dictator in europe. perhaps we should broaden the range of economic sanctions we use, because all the evidence is that words, however harsh, will not improve the situation of the people of belarus.
for the efd group. chinese official circles have long found it difficult to tolerate references to other ancient major cultures and civilizations whose relics are found in china today. kashgar is a center of the muslim uighurs one of china's largest ethnic minorities. the chinese have been trying to control uighur territory for thousands of years, and many times they have lost their battle to control it. therefore, even today, there is a certain distance and effort to suppress any manifestations of cultural traditions and identities linked to the rich cultural heritage of the uyghurs and the city of kashgar in the attitudes of the chinese administration. i'm not sure that the official chinese authorities today are capable of accepting the philosophy that the current chinese state is built not only on the traditions and history of the chinese empire, but also on the traditions and history of other nations. rather, the chinese attitude toward tibet, as well as the uyghur monuments in kashgar, is evidence that china today fails to appreciate the wealth that other peoples and other cultures have brought to its common state. therefore, it is also right to say from this place that we, unlike the chinese authorities, respect and honor all the important cultural monuments located in the territory of the republic of china, as well as those in tibet and kashgar.
in writing. - i represent a country in the euro area which did not support the loan to greece at the time. it was a decision that, of course, no one was happy about. i sincerely hope that we won't have to make decisions like this very often. the crisis has not spared the euro area or the eu, but our common currency has proven itself time and again. it provides users with a unity and protection that is a proud achievement of the union. that is why we need to protect our currency from future economic fluctuations with a proper legal framework. the current treaty amendment will replace the transitional stability instrument with a european stabilisation mechanism. mechanism reform is an opportunity for those in trouble, so i'd prefer it if it were used infrequently. this is one of the last moments to coordinate our economic and financial systems. i voted in favour of this very realistic and constructive solution. as parliament has said before, the structural causes of the crisis must be addressed. it is necessary to prevent a situation similar to that recently experienced from recurring.
in writing. - the single currency has brought more freedom to europe. but freedom always comes with responsibility. and that's the problem. it has been shown that some member states have in the past taken their own share of responsibility for the single currency lightly. to pay off these debts, they now need to borrow more money, but the banks no longer trust them. states that acted responsibly had a choice: to admit the debtors' bankruptcy or to show solidarity. as a committed european, i am glad that the principle of solidarity has won. at the same time, however, i expect the new mechanism to be applied with caution, so that what is happening today - greece and ireland asking for more aid after the initial aid - does not happen. i also hope that solidarity will not be misused by those who need it, but also by those who seek a suitable pretext for tax harmonisation and further encroachment on the sovereignty of the member states.
responsible financial management is a prerequisite for the sound and stable functioning of a household, a manufacturing or trading firm, a country, a nation state, or a union of states. it is therefore natural that, if a group of european union countries have agreed to create a single currency, they must find a mechanism to prevent populist politicians from burdening the common currency with unsustainable commitments debt, which they use to buy the votes of their voters for a short time. the competitiveness pact defines certain parameters that euro area countries in particular should respect. the problem is implementing these well-thought-out rules. i am therefore convinced that the time has come to apply automatic sanction mechanisms for failure to respect the commonly agreed management rules, so that these sanctions do not become the subject of a political bargain in the european council, where the heads of government compensate each other for their various and different political lapses by remitting sanctions.
commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to two aspects of the forthcoming council meeting. first, many measures are undemocratic in nature. the role of national parliaments and the european parliament as the only elected bodies is to be weakened and the powers of central executive bodies are to be strengthened. the strictness of sanctions, or their automatic nature, also limits the ability of national parliaments to influence economic policy. i also find it unfortunate that the commission is preparing legislation on macroeconomic indicators without the involvement of the european parliament. second, many of the proposed measures are counterproductive. how does the commission intend to restore growth and jobs? you propose policies that stifle domestic demand and rely on exports. it is almost certain that such a policy mix will not bring the european union out of the crisis. instead of an undemocratic and restrictive policy, commissioner, i would like to speak for... (the speaker was interrupted by the chairman. )
in japan, the tsunami that followed the earthquake was the immediate cause of the nuclear power plant accident, which became a major safety issue for both the industry and the public. so it was the right decision to put our existing nuclear power plants through rigorous testing. it became clear that we needed a comprehensive, in-depth discussion to make a rational decision about the future of nuclear power. it is also necessary to raise awareness of the fact that people are increasingly afraid after such a terrible tragedy, which is why it is necessary to take care to provide objective and authentic information and to increase security measures. what i would like to stress is that nuclear power plants in europe are exposed to completely different environmental factors than in japan. the continent is not threatened by a tsunami or an earthquake of this magnitude. therefore, we must not draw direct conclusions from this unfortunate tragedy. our facilities are prepared for the effects that may come, and nuclear power may be an integral part of our energy supply in the future. finally, i would like to express my sympathy and respect to our japanese friends. thank you, thank you.
almost a year ago, i said in this house that less than half of the member states of the european union have official resettlement programmes for refugees from third countries. moreover, these programmes are not well coordinated. the costs of resettlement are disproportionately high due to the low level of coordination and cooperation between the member states of the union. it remains true that with sufficient political will, we will be able to create an effective, fair and supportive resettlement programme. to this end, it will be necessary to establish not only a programme but also a specific fund for the resettlement of refugees in the european union. this package would finance the creation of national resettlement programmes where they do not already exist, as well as coordination activities at central level. although the facts have been known for a long time and there has been a political consensus on them for at least a year, no final decision has been reached between parliament, the commission and the council. i therefore join my colleagues in calling on the council to make the completion of the codecision process in this area one of its priorities.
mr. president, my dear officer. my fellow officers. let's thank mr. schwab for the valuable work he's put forward. uniform consumer protection rules and the same sounding words everywhere create trust among citizens and at the same time guarantee greater legal certainty. this is of particular importance for citizens and businesses who wish to exercise their rights freely in trade within the internal market. the rapporteur's proposal to combine minimum harmonisation of consumer protection with full harmonisation of technical rules is the only acceptable regulatory solution in the current situation. the combination of minimum and total harmonisation can become a variation that is acceptable to all. the existing barriers to cross-border transactions hamper the activity of traders and consumers across the borders of the member states. statistics show that many people are still reluctant to shop online in the eu, and this too should change. furthermore, with particular reference to the central european member states, i would say that there is a great need for a comprehensive and constructive regulatory framework. a more transparent and common rules-based system will enhance the still-unbridled consumer awareness that has long been known in western europe. the advanced consumer protection policy is also a tool to support smes. so we must be careful not to complicate their situation by overly stringent legislation. the clarification of the information obligations of traders is a key element contributing to the growth of legal and fair trade market transactions. it is no coincidence that the hungarian presidency regards this proposal for a directive as one of its priorities for the six months ahead. it is significant that parliament put the report on its agenda a few days after the world consumer day. in the eu's internal market, we can make life easier for almost 500 million consumers and 22 million businesses by making the right choice.
in writing. the heterogeneity of existing legislation and standards is often a disincentive for consumers and businesses considering entering cross-border trade. consumers and traders encounter barriers due to the heterogeneity of market conditions. a wide harmonisation of the contract in question is necessary, in the first place with a view to maintaining a high level of protection of consumers' rights. apart from sectoral derogations, the scope of the directive would be limited in particular to contracts concluded outside the premises of the establishments themselves. these contracts account for the largest volume of cross-border trade. similarly, whether a contract is subject to harmonised rules depends in particular on the wording of the definitions. some are often inadequate and legally unsatisfactory. it is indeed desirable to ensure that consumers in all member states of the union are guaranteed a high level of consumer protection and that goods can be supplied and made available to them without unnecessary legal obstacles. this would, in a sense, contribute to increasing consumer confidence and also to a greater interest of businesses in cross-border transactions.
mr. president, my dear officer. i have to say that this directive is a source of serious concern for the oil producers in the countries of central and eastern europe. not because it hasn't been implemented yet, but because we're curious about how they're going to calculate emissions. the so-called fixed method, which is based on an eu average, or the so-called hybrid method, which calculates emissions from the place and time of extraction. so producers that work with russian oil would actually have to reduce their ghg emissions by 12%, because the pollution is already high at the site of production. in this connection, in january, four of my colleagues and i sent you a letter, madam commissioner, to which we received a reply, but this reply has not yet completely dispelled our doubts. i would therefore ask you to reassure me, if possible, that the legislation will not put oil refiners who process russian oil at a disadvantage and thus discriminate against the central and eastern european member states.
much time has passed since world war ii, but not enough to make us forget all the horrors of that period. that's why i can't believe that there are people in europe today who build monuments to fascist criminals. on march 14, a civic club in košice unveiled the bust of jános esterházy, a war criminal convicted in 1947 of collaborating with fascism for the death penalty. they unveiled the bust of a criminal who welcomed the fascist troops when they occupied košice. he openly admitted to collaboration with the nazis and declared himself, quote: "from my earliest youth i have had an anti-jewish orientation and i will maintain it until death". ladies and gentlemen, i think this outrageous provocation is all the more saddening because the consul of the republic of hungary, the diplomat of the country that is now our president and who speaks on behalf of us all and the european union in many forums, also spoke at the celebration of a military war criminal.
the gulf states represent a significant economic potential offering wide scope for expanding cooperation with the european union. the gulf cooperation council, like the european union, has a serious interest in improving trade cooperation, and therefore it is important to be able to communicate with representatives of the gulf states about our cooperation priorities. we share similar views on many issues of economic governance, international security and the fight against terrorism, and it would be a mistake to limit the potential for cooperation to trade and economic matters. it is certainly clear to all of us that our current cooperation with the gulf states has considerable reservations and the development of a new, more ambitious european union policy concept in the gulf cooperation council and its member states could, in addition to improving trade and economic cooperation, bring about a closer partnership with the representatives of the moderate islamic world, which in a complex situation could be an interesting political bonus for this activity.
in writing. a free trade agreement means fewer barriers to mutual cooperation and trade. that is why i support such agreements in principle. the gulf cooperation council (gcc) states are undoubtedly important trading partners. primarily because they have the basic raw material of our time - oil. i also welcomed the fact that the report also highlighted human rights shortcomings in our trading partners, in addition to trade. however, i have long hesitated to support the report in the vote, because some of the states represented in the gulf cooperation council have two faces. one face smiles at us friendly and says that he is our ally in the fight against islamic terrorism. but the other, less visible, spends billions of dollars and euros each year to promote religious "education" that calls for violence against christians, jews, and all non-muslims. but in the end i supported the report because i expect that when the commission starts to monitor in detail the violence against christians in islamic countries, it will also inform us about who is funding this hatred.
the european union has set itself five measurable objectives for the period up to 2020. these are goals that the states themselves have agreed to. these goals show us the direction we should take. europe's success depends on how we fulfil them. it is up to countries to act responsibly to increase employment, reduce the number of people who leave school early, achieve the targets for young people entering higher education, reduce the number of people at risk of poverty or protect our climate. despite the agreement on common procedures in the european union, my country's government has decided to cut back on priority operational programmes. it wants to use them to finance high-speed communications and is negotiating with the commission. i ask you, commissioner, will you personally and the commission as a whole support the countries to embark on a path that goes against the common objectives at this initial stage of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy?
the budget is a key instrument of european integration, and therefore how it is set up matters. it is in times of crisis that the european union budget can help to alleviate the restrictive budgetary policies of national governments and channel funds into long-term desirable investment projects. in this context, i welcome the report's support for the plan to introduce project bonds, for example in the area of infrastructure. i would caution, however, that they should not be seen as an alternative to eurobonds. in my view, eurobonds are a separate issue and i support their introduction, because they are a logical continuation of the integration process and a further step in that process. the opposite is true, for example, of efforts to reduce the size of the union budget. in addition to the adverse economic effects, they also undermine solidarity between member states. the selfish and short-sighted division into net contributors and net beneficiaries ignores the deeper and more important context of european integration. all member states can benefit equally from it. i think that this is the same lens that should be used in the debate on the union budget.
we are also looking ahead to the priorities of the 2012 budget, and i think we should therefore also look at the possibilities for savings in the future. i think it is also very important to reflect on the regular travel of members and the whole european parliament to strasbourg, which occurs twelve times a year. i think we're irritating our citizens with these activities because the taxpayers have to pay for these travels and it costs them a lot of money. so if not in 2012, at least in the long term, we should also be looking at the possibility of either reducing or adjusting this mechanism in the future. another reservation that i think needs to be mentioned is the cost of establishing a museum of the european union or europe, which i think can also be deferred in time to future years when the european union is doing better. in this period, especially in 2012, we could transfer these funds to other activities, to the objectives of the 2012 programme, and of course also improve the efficiency of our processing.
first of all, i would like to commend the work of the rapporteur, who in her report has given a lot of problems their proper name. the eu budget for 2012 and beyond should be ambitious if we are to meet the tasks and objectives of strategy 2020, emerge victorious from the crisis and compete in the world. i support the budget committee's proposal to organise a meeting with national parliaments to discuss the outlines of the member states' and the eu's budgets for 2012. the meeting should stress that the eu budget must not be in deficit, that it represents only 2% of total eu public expenditure and that there are fundamental differences between member states' budgets and the eu budget. the eu budget is largely investing in europe's future. all of this should be borne in mind by the council, because we have already heard the representatives of germany, france and the united kingdom talk about trying to freeze the eu budget, which would certainly curb europe's growth.
i voted against the approved draft directive. i consider it important to apply a uniform procedure for the issuing of work and residence permits. it is also necessary to seek to establish a single set of rights for third-country nationals legally residing and working in a member state of the union. legal certainty and transparency are also undoubtedly essential in the adoption of decisions by the competent national authorities on the handling of the requests in question. since they have a significant impact on the lives of these persons, they should be assessed as objectively as possible. equal treatment should be guaranteed in all areas of social security and their rights must be addressed by legislation. as these amendments were not incorporated into the directive on economic immigration, i do not consider it right that the directive has been approved by the right-wing parties.
in writing. − the best way to protect against illegal and irregular immigration is to try to prevent it. we could provide support for their livelihoods and social security in their country of origin, that is, eliminate the causes of their migration. if that is not feasible, we need to create channels of legal immigration that also meet the needs of our own labour market. economic immigration is a reality today, but it is also something we need to help us deal with demographic and economic challenges. for this reason, immigration policy can be seen as a regulatory tool that allows us to regulate our labour demand. this will provide an opportunity for immigrants from third countries who can legally enter the eu to work. the system of reception procedures would be considerably simplified by the introduction of a combined procedure which would grant both the right to stay and the right to work. that is why i voted in favour of the urgent establishment of this horizontal legislative framework.
in writing. − the enormous damage caused by the recent earthquakes and tsunami in japan cannot be repaired overnight. we must be prepared to provide japan with concrete practical assistance even after the media interest has waned. solidarity is one of the fundamental pillars on which europe stands today. it is right that, alongside the governments and parliaments of the member states, the european parliament has sent a clear signal to our friends in japan, which has been through a lot, that we are with them and that they can count on our help at any time.
the proposed directive on minimum standards for procedures in member states for granting and withdrawing international protection is based on the experience gained so far with asylum procedures in the member states. however, the commission's efforts to establish common procedures for granting and withdrawing uniform asylum or subsidiary protection status by better harmonising the instruments of the asylum procedure and improving its quality in order to reduce the number of revised decisions are met with a number of objections from the council of the european union as well as from some member states. i believe that the views of the council and the member states which ultimately implement the asylum procedure should be of some guidance to us. and so i think that if we don't listen carefully to their comments and advice when we make changes to the asylum system, our work will hardly have the desired effect. i therefore consider it very important to continue to consult the competent authorities of the member states of the european union in particular on the amendments that are being prepared.
thank you very much, mr. president. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report, because i think it deals with a very important social problem. in europe, we've gotten used to the fact that very often things move when they have economic significance. and i would like to highlight that the report points out that violence against women costs billions of dollars every year in europe. violence is present at all levels: among the poor, the rich, the lowly educated, and even among college graduates. and to add to the confusion, hundreds of women are victims of domestic violence every year. europe also saw the emergence of a form of violence that was unprecedented, as mentioned earlier. female genital mutilation, but also honour killing, is taking its toll in europe. we obviously want to see a european standard for combating violence against women. but we know very well that without a legal basis, it's almost impossible. but what can be done is a common european strategy. and even if we cannot harmonise legal systems, it is clear that the exchange of good practice in this area can help a lot. the report also points out that there are acts of violence that are not recognised as violent by certain legal systems. i believe that cooperation can bring some progress in the future, but what can make this cooperation effective is first and foremost a european strategy, which is very much needed. thank you very much.
despite decades of warnings about violence against women and violations of their rights, the criminal element of this deplorable crime has not been stopped. the various forms of violence against women harm not only the women themselves but also their families. family life often loses its purpose of providing a sense of security and safety. children who face violence at home are, in a sense, victims of it as well. attention at european level is therefore needed to the potential exposure of women and children to domestic violence. for older women or women with physical or mental disabilities, the problem of self-defence and self-protection is even more complex. women are also exposed to gender-based abuse through various types of violations of personal freedoms, where trafficking in human beings, especially for sexual purposes, is one of the most serious problems facing society as a whole. it is therefore imperative to ensure that prosecution is more effective and that penalties are proportionate to the seriousness of the crime committed. it is essential to take steps to prevent such a serious violation of human rights and freedoms and to guarantee european women a life of dignity.
exposure of an individual to any form of violence has far-reaching destructive consequences for the family and society and is especially reprehensible when perpetrated against women and children. however, i find it alarming that domestic violence is identified as the main cause of abortions or stillbirths, and therefore i advocate the application of all available criminal law means to effectively repress but also prevent physical violence. i want to draw attention to the urgent need to protect women, especially poor women, from so-called surrogate motherhood. surrogacy under the guise of solidarity exposes women to physical exploitation, even abuse, in direct contradiction to the prohibition against trafficking in human bodies and parts. the dignity, intimacy and body of women are thus degraded and made the subject of bribes in the international human trafficking market.
in writing we all know about violence against women, we talk about it, but the concrete results in eliminating it are weak. violence affects women at different stages of life from childhood to adulthood. it occurs in school, at work, in peer groups, in public, but also in the privacy of family or partner life. it takes many forms - from physical and sexual to psychological and social to economic violence. it is experienced by women of different educational, socioeconomic, ethnic and religious backgrounds, urban and rural. however, it should be stressed that violence against women is a problem for all of us. to eliminate it, not only active institutions are needed, but also active individuals - women and men - who do not turn a blind eye to the presence of this negative phenomenon in our society and are willing to personally commit themselves to promoting the principle of zero tolerance for violence. the member states must play a greater role in this, draw up action plans to combat violence against women, increase media coverage and adopt specific criminal laws and measures.
democracy, freedom, solidarity, and the christian idea. these are the common european values that i believe in. count jános eszterházy, a hungarian politician in slovakia, who was convicted by the communists in 1947 on trumped-up charges and died a martyr's death in 1957 in mirov prison, also professed these same beliefs. he was the only politician who, among countless other merits, condemned and voted in 1942 as the sole representative in the parliament of the fascist slovak state against the deportation of jews. his only crime was that he consistently stood up for the slovak hungarians, who, along with the german citizens, were dragged en masse, made homeless and homeless by the shameful decrees of venice. the eu is ashamed that these inhumane decrees legitimising state terrorism are still alive today and that the rehabilitation of john eszterházy and the hundreds of thousands of citizens deprived of their property and human dignity still awaits. i call on my fellow members to take the defence of our common european values more seriously.
the european union wants to become the most competitive economy in the world. to do that, we have to invest in our future, and in my view, the future is our youth and their education. they say that those who want to look for reasons, those who don't want to look for ways not to find them. i think that the european union is currently looking for reasons rather than saying why we can't fund more education, and many times we like to make the excuse that we have a crisis and we have to deal with the consequences. as we are already discussing the next seven years in the european union and the next funding and the next budgets, i think we should ask ourselves clearly: how much do we intend to invest in education and in our future? and we would certainly need to hear from the council and the commission what they intend to do on this issue. of course, we must not tolerate what is happening in some member states, which are shifting funding to other areas, as is happening in my country, for example, and i think that is not right. and we should realize that if we invest in the future, that's the only way we can really solve what we want.
the premature decommissioning of nuclear reactors in the three candidate countries of the european union, lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, prevented the creation of appropriate national funds to cover all the costs associated with decommissioning power plants and therefore community aid was necessary to cope with the significant financial and economic burden. however, the expertise carried out shows that the decommissioning costs of the power plants have already exceeded the amount of planned eu aid and are likely to exceed the initial estimates, even though the decommissioning itself is still at an early stage. the decommissioning will therefore have to continue, ladies and gentlemen, even after the end of the financial perspective for the period up to 2013, and i therefore consider it necessary to consider allocating additional funds to decommissioning projects for these three nuclear plants.
the report by mr marinesc speaks of the efficiency and effectiveness of the spending of european union funds used to decommission soviet-type nuclear reactors. the slovak republic has thoroughly reconstructed its nuclear power plant in jaslovské bohunice after the chernobyl accident and has equipped it with the latest safety technologies from french and german specialist companies. inspectors from the international atomic energy agency assessed the readiness of the nuclear power plant in jaslovské bohunicia for more than thirty years of safe operation after the completion of extensive modernization. however, in the interest of peace and security of the citizens of neighbouring austria, at the time of the accession negotiations to the european union, the slovak republic agreed to the early shutdown of the already state-of-the-art reactors v1 and v2 in jaslovské bohunice. we therefore see the european union's symbolic contribution to the cost of decommissioning these reactors only as an attempt to at least partially compensate for the loss of the slovak republic, which thus lost a strong and powerful source of clean electricity, not as a real contribution to the liquidation of this power plant.
in a report on the future european international investment policy, the rapporteur pointed out a number of open issues in potential european union agreements. the primary task of the european union is to protect the public interest of the citizens of the union whom it represents in the areas entrusted to it by the member states. however, examples of public interest protected by states often run counter to the interests of aggressive foreign investors, who are often more adept at international arbitrations than countries protecting the interests of their citizens. the examples of argentina, the united states and canada cited in the report provide concrete evidence of this. it will therefore be very necessary to define the principles of protection precisely in order to avoid their incorrect interpretation by different investors. however, the international responsibility of the european union, especially from a financial point of view, remains an important and as yet unresolved issue, since it is not clear who would bear the financial burden of a possible legal dispute lost by the european union. the council of the european union has not yet given a correct answer to this question.
the council of the european union also discussed the definition of a new euro area crisis mechanism. although the heads of government present agreed on the creation of a permanent euro, it appears that they will have to discuss its final form with experts in their countries. when mrs radičová, the slovak prime minister, returned home from brussels, she found that her position, as declared in the council, did not have sufficient support in the national parliament. without a correct and precise finalisation of the mechanism for the managed bankruptcy of insolvent countries, also activated within the euro area, the proposed permanent mechanism becomes more of a permanent instrument for europe's indebtedness. therefore, it cannot be accepted in this form by any responsible national parliament. please, therefore, mr president of the council of the european union, try to take more account of qualified expert opinions in your policy proposals.
first of all, i would like to point out the wrong leitmotif of the conclusions of the council meeting, namely that we should be growing and saving at the same time. the obsession with fiscal consolidation in times of crisis can be fatal. our clear priority should be to restore employment and sustainable economic growth. ladies and gentlemen, the citizens are the main ones to pay for the crisis. on the one hand, they are losing their jobs, they are being hit hard by government austerity measures, and on the other, they are in danger of having the cash needed to strengthen the euro come entirely from their taxes. but it is mainly financial players who should be involved in strengthening the euro. mr president, mr president of the commission, what the union needs now is the coordination of economic and social policies to restore employment and to get out of the crisis. and also a clear consensus on saving the euro, involving the private financial sector.
it is right that the report presented seeks to improve the position of rural women. but unfortunately, he sees women as just workers or businesswomen. they don't see a woman's role as a mother, nor the value of informal, and therefore unpaid, work by women. however, the work of women mothers in the home and in caring for dependent family members also contributes significantly to the well-being of society. in european countries, this work accounts for up to a third of gdp, yet we still pretend it doesn't exist. instead of recognizing this contribution, we unilaterally pressure women to get jobs and start businesses. it is in agriculture and rural areas that the appreciation of women's informal work would lead to a higher quality of life for families and communities.
the report on the state of play of financing decommissioning of nuclear power plants gives a good picture of the state of play so far. i also fully share one of the key conclusions of the report that the disposal of these installations in the countries concerned will require a european contribution beyond 2013. exclusive own-funding will not be within the power of the countries concerned. for example, under political pressure from the european union, slovakia decommissioned two fully reconstructed units of the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant in 2006, 2008. according to the international atomic energy agency, they met all safety criteria. the economic impact of this step is significant and will be further compounded by the high long-term costs of shutting down these plants. the european union will also have to count on support resources for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in the financial perspective for the years 2013 2020.
thank you, mr president. i supported the report, which also directly affects my country, slovakia. in 2004, the governments of lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria committed themselves in their accession treaties to phasing out part of their nuclear reactors. the closure has imposed an extraordinary economic burden and the eu has committed to providing financial support for the decommissioning until the end of 2013. the union has limited experience in nuclear disarmament. the power cut may also have a direct impact on the energy supply of the country concerned and of the surrounding member states. in order to address the negative consequences, the development of alternative, low-carbon and competitive energy sources should be promoted. at the same time, we must ensure that there are sufficient financial resources to ensure that shutdown operations are carried out in accordance with safety standards. the union will be able to use the experience gained in decommissioning processes for nuclear power plants at the end of their economic life. the results suggest that, looking ahead to 2013, several investment projects will be almost complete and the new decommissioning and management structures will be in place. thank you very much.
i welcome mrs svenson's report because it moves the debate on women's rights forward. in condemning violence against pregnant women, the report says, and i quote, "the perpetrator harms more than one person". for years, i've been trying to make sure that women's rights don't conflict with the rights of the unborn. unfortunately, mrs. svenson's administration has not yet overcome this conflict. restrictions on women's reproductive rights, which today primarily mean the right to abortion, are still considered a form of violence against women. but if we finally include the unborn among human persons, then induced abortion is an act of violence against the unborn child. in preparing the strategy and combating all forms of violence, the commission should seek to reconcile women's rights with the rights of the unborn child. the new strategy should protect women, but also include mechanisms to protect the unborn. it's also clear from the report, but you have to read it carefully.
for the s&d group commissioner, commissioner, first of all, i would like to congratulate you on the framework presented. i am pleased that, after repeated and repeated calls from parliament, the commission is finally presenting this european framework strategy today. i think it's about time, because the situation is getting serious. many roma in the union face not only undignified living conditions but also growing terror. the torchlight march against the roma in hungary on saturday is the latest evidence of this and i would like to call on the hungarian government to take action. as for the framework presented, let me start critically. the situation is urgent, but we cannot accept the commission's decision to prepare the framework without public consultation of the parties concerned. it is strange that on the one hand, in the framework itself, you emphasise the importance of cooperation with civil society, but in the preparation of this key document you have bypassed both roma and ngos, international organisations and so on. such a closed procedure does not add to its legitimacy, on the contrary. however, i consider the content of the framework presented to be a success. the commission has defined the competences correctly in dealing with this europe-wide problem. however, key competences remain at member state level. however, i consider it extremely important that the european union takes on the role of coordinator and overseer of national strategies in order to ensure the rapid and genuine integration of roma. in this context, it is also crucial to mention the importance of monitoring the consistency of national strategies with the framework presented and the importance of monitoring the effectiveness of their implementation. however, the commission's approach seems to me to be a little bit too unambitious in this respect. the commission should be particularly attentive to the expectations of the member states. the framework correctly defines four key areas for roma integration: access to education, access to employment, access to healthcare and access to decent housing and basic services. during my numerous visits to roma communities throughout europe, i and members of my group have been able to see that these are the key areas where roma often face deteriorating conditions. however, it should be noted that similarly formulated objectives have already appeared in the programme of the roma inclusion decade. now it is essential to ensure that they are fulfilled. in addition to these four areas, i would like to add another one which is missing from the framework, namely the fight not only against discrimination but also against verbal and physical expressions of racism. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to the question of financing integration measures. a commission working group revealed late last year that member states have significant gaps in the use of eu funds. the commission should therefore take care to ensure that the use of funds is not too administratively burdensome, that the commission takes effective measures to ensure that the resources allocated actually serve their purpose and that resources are not used for segregation. in conclusion, allow me to thank and congratulate you once again, commissioner and commissioner, and it will now be up to the member states to use this as a basis for effective action at national level to integrate the roma ethnic group. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
i would like to say one thing in this connection: i am absolutely in favour of the idea that where we create rights, there must also be obligations. and of course, it is also the parents' responsibility to see that all the child's rights are respected. however, i believe that the member states of the european union have the necessary instruments to create such a space and that they will not be punished for not complying with the obligation of parents.
the estimate of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2012 refers in points 17 and 18 to the continuation of the implementation of the house of european history and proposes to create budgetary reserves to cover the additional costs associated with the implementation of this project, entered under chapter 10.1 contingency reserve. i do not know whether the continuation of the house of european history project can be considered as an unforeseen expense, but i listened carefully to the comments made by mrs marta andreasen, who, when the programme was approved, pointed out that the costs of the house of european history project were significantly underestimated in the report. i do not know the motivation of those who are so stubbornly pushing the house of european history through the european union's ongoing financial and economic problems. but i know that the general european public sees this as a gross waste of taxpayers' money. i therefore seriously suggest that you, ladies and gentlemen, consider continuing to fund this controversial project for eur 60 million.
i would like to highlight one very important aspect of the report. it is the ambition to take greater care of the efficiency and economy of the european institutions. in a time of economic crisis, when many citizens of the union have lost their jobs, the management of an institution financed by their taxes is a particularly sensitive matter, and it must be said quite rightly so. it is therefore important that the budget embodies the obligation of sound management. to avoid unnecessary waste of public resources, a number of points need to be focused on. it is important to develop and implement an e-government strategy. the use of videoconferencing for meetings should be encouraged, as should the use of new green technologies. to conserve natural resources, especially paper, we need to fully function the wireless network in all our workplaces. but on the other hand, the savings must have their limits, so as not to compromise the quality of the work we do in the european institutions. for example, i consider it important that interpretation be provided at committee meetings, and i would like to thank all the interpreters, ladies and gentlemen, for their work.
i want to thank the rapporteur for a really good report. he and all of you who have spoken here today have pointed out the shortcomings and have indeed found perhaps solutions. but the only right solution is not to look for each individual to find or not to find, but to look at the whole problem from a really objective point of view. and the only objective view is that i'm taking an x-ray of the parliament from the outside. the court of auditors did the same thing once, and notice how, after this external audit, it suddenly saves on administrative costs. i am very pleased that the members of our committee have also supported my amendment, which is that parliament should really look at certain areas of its work from an external point of view, and we will find all that you have said and perhaps a little more. and then there's the next step, which göran färm said, is to control these expenses for the future. these are the only solutions.
i would like to express my support for my colleague the rapporteur in his absolutely justified criticism of the european commission's annual report. the commission is only formally focusing on what the member states will notify it. however, you should try to dig deeper with the help of the specialised bodies. you simply have to put more effort into it and try to apply the latest methods of measuring the rate of irregularities and fraud. if we continue in the way that the commission's 2009 annual report represents, we will only be left with speculations about many suspicious things. for example, some large and highly financed states have very low rates of irregularities and fraud. is the situation really that positive or is the national methodology for detecting these offences just a bit lenient? i fully agree with the rapporteur that the commission is putting in an excessive amount of effort to convince us in parliament of the need to introduce some kind of allowable risk of error, instead of trying to convince the member states of the need for mandatory national management declarations.
looking at the history of european integration and the current organisation and functioning of the european union, it can be seen that the european union can be seen not only as a grouping of states but increasingly as a political arena with the potential to create a genuine european public. the union has not only a single market, its own legislation, an elected representative body or its own judiciary. political parties at european level have also been a reality for some time. they are not just a gathering of national parties. they have their own agenda, a european agenda, and are an integral part of the european political public. strengthening political parties at european level will consolidate participatory governance in the european union and, ultimately, democracy. for these reasons, i welcome the proposal presented for reform of the statute and funding of political parties at union level and i would like to thank you, mr vice-president, personally for your cooperation. it is now very important for political parties to have a common and uniform legal status. the difference between the political party regime and the rules applicable to the european institutions needs to be overcome. this is possible through the introduction of a common political, legal and fiscal status for political parties at european level. it would also be appropriate to consider that only political parties operating at national or regional level should have the right to establish such a party. there is also the question of the financing system. the system for approving the finances of political parties at european level should be simplified. in order to maintain transparency, it should be possible to carry out financial controls. a transparent and secure environment for the operation and funding of european political parties is a desirable and welcome step towards citizens of the member states of the european union. it can help them in their daily lives. the status of political parties at european level is a significant step towards greater interaction with citizens, an increase in the level of democracy and an increase in public interest in european issues.
the report on the application of the regulation on the statute and the financing of political parties at european level shall assess the experience gained in applying this legal standard to the governance of political entities with a broad european scope. in addition to assessing the current situation, ms giannakou also decided to make a number of proposals to improve the current legal environment. perhaps the most significant change should be the change of the statute form from the current belgian equivalent of an ngo to a common and uniform european legal statute for political parties. the second major change should be to adjust the percentage of independent funding sources to 10% of the total budget for political parties. however, given that in 2012 european political parties and their foundations are expected to receive more than eur 30 million from the european parliament, it will be necessary to ensure maximum transparency in the management of those funds. such changes can be encouraged to further improve political work in the european union.
in writing i do not want to be a member of a european political party that will be founded on the principles outlined in the report submitted. these parties are supposed to represent the 'european public interest', but if you ask any two members of this parliament what that is like, they will each say something different. who determines this interest? the parliament? the commission? but meps are not nominated by the eu institutions, they are elected by citizens in the member states. my duty is to represent individual citizens, not what the eu institutions consider to be the 'european public interest'. i also do not agree that the european parties should also act at regional and national level. they just don't have a mandate to do that. if they do, they will come into conflict with the parties on whose ticket we were all elected and with the voters those parties represent. and my loyalty is to my constituents, not to a european political party. it's called a free mandate. so i strongly disagree with the philosophy of the super-site presented in this report. it's another attempt by euro-social engineers who are so obsessed with the utopia of the superstate that they ignore common sense. if they had listened to him, they would have known that by stubbornly pushing such proposals, they are undermining the foundations on which european integration rests. as a committed european, i must therefore vote against this report.
the drive to create a single market for businesses and growth is confronted with many administrative obstacles, which are a natural consequence of the fact that the business environment in the member states has developed separately at different stages and under different conditions. the effort to synchronise the business environment of all 27 member states seems to me to be a very challenging ambition. i would therefore also like to draw attention to the possibility of an alternative procedure which does not require the absolute cooperation of all member states from the outset. the procedure under article 20 of the treaty on european union, the so-called enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection, has already succeeded in bringing the long-standing problem of the european patent significantly forward. i am convinced that if the will of a group of member states, particularly those with stronger economies such as france and germany, could be found to unify accounting rules and to establish a common accounting and tax system, it would be possible, through enhanced cooperation under article 20 of the treaty on european union, to lay the foundations of a common accounting system to which other member states could gradually join. i am convinced that a good selection of well-thought-out steps can make a significant contribution to the functioning of the european union's single market.
it is often the case that the preservation of the single market comes at the expense of social rights and the observance of certain national traditions in the labour market. in addition, the single market is currently facing other problems, as the economic crisis is negatively impacting the prospects for its further successful development. however, i believe that it is necessary to include a social component in legislation relating to the single market in order to ensure that the policy in question is genuinely targeted at citizens and that coherence is ensured, also by respecting social and workers' rights. it should be a common endeavour to make the single market and its functioning a benefit for citizens and businesses alike, and thus contribute to an overall increase in european competitiveness. legislative measures must also be geared to achieving objectives such as a stable and responsible remuneration policy and adequate representation of women in senior management positions.
the idea that europeans should create more jobs, more job opportunities is fundamental to us. in particular, it must be borne in mind that the citizen must be at the very heart of the initiative, whether from the point of view of consumer rights, communication strategies or copyright, improving the environment for cross-border operations of smes, which are the backbone of every economy. the process of recognition of professional qualifications needs to be accelerated in order to increase mobility as well as reflection in collective agreements. i also consider it crucial to implement the same legislation in all member states, to ensure adequate social protection, and i repeat, social protection, and to combat social exclusion. finally, mr president, i would like to say that the incorporation of these elements into the european qualifications framework will ensure real benefits for citizens as well as an efficient labour mobility mechanism.
in writing. the single market is vital for the future growth of the union's economy. special attention should be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, as they have the greatest potential for growth and job creation. the single market should benefit small businesses, which provide the majority of jobs but have greater difficulty in exploiting the opportunities offered by the single market. they have a problem with funding development, with funding innovation. equal attention should be paid to local businesses in disadvantaged, sparsely populated areas and in urban areas facing difficulties. competition policy is a key tool in enabling the eu to have a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market and to be competitive on the world stage. the eu needs to take important measures to improve access to information for smes, to make them aware of the opportunities offered by the single market and the financial instruments provided by the union. i personally consider it important to integrate the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the elements of the small business package into all eu policies relating to the single market. this is key to overcoming the current obstacles at national and european level.
strengthening democracy in the european union requires a continuous effort to enhance a fair and transparent environment for the functioning and funding of political parties at european level. union citizens should be more involved in political life at eu level and it is therefore necessary to create favourable incentive conditions for the activities of political parties. for example, to prevent less than 20% of eligible voters from voting in the european parliament elections, as happened in my country. i agree with the idea that such political parties should have a common and uniform legal status, as well as their own legal personality, which is directly derived from the rules of the european union treaties. as regards the funding system, transparency is intrinsically linked to the application of values and therefore clear funding conditions must be a first priority.
the volume of the internal market in goods in the european union represents 17% of the world market in goods. the volume of internal trade in services in the european union represents 28% of world trade in services. if this mass is set in motion in the right direction, the results in the form of economic growth based on the dynamics of own resources should be achieved. however, this is only possible if the proposed measures, which i have supported, are implemented in such a way as to eliminate bottlenecks in the movement of people, capital, goods and services between the various countries of the union, and to increase the availability and reliability of credit and banking services, as well as of online transactions. this is only the case if a more functional single market opens up new potential for the realisation of european union-originated products and activities on european union markets. then a 4% contribution to economic growth over ten years might not be a utopia.
in writing − floods in 2010 affected large areas of several central european countries. the natural disaster affected poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia, and romania the most. the people living in these areas cannot cope with the flood by themselves. they are unable to deal with the consequences at their own expense, as national budgets are burdened by the economic and financial crisis. however, for the benefit of the countries concerned, the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund. all these countries have applied for assistance from the fund after being hit and paralysed by landslides, floods and almost continuous rainfall during the spring and summer months of the previous year. the natural element has caused extensive damage to public and private infrastructure, road and rail transport, and agriculture in the affected areas. there was also serious damage to property, residential buildings, or cultural monuments. it is therefore appropriate to provide the european states concerned with the necessary financial assistance to enable them to deal with the consequences of the natural disaster and to return to normal life as soon as possible.
in writing. − the heavy rains last year have created a catastrophic situation in the countries of central europe. rivers burst their banks, flooding streets and houses. people became destitute, many losing almost everything. that's why it was so important to get help and get it out quickly. slovakia, hungary, poland, the czech republic, croatia and romania have also asked the european union for help to help those in need by using the solidarity fund. i am very pleased that the european parliament has recognised this situation and has also wanted to help these countries. that is why i consider it very important to support the motion for a resolution and i would like to thank all those who expressed their solidarity with my fellow citizens in central europe. thank you, sir.
the extensive damage to the fukushima nuclear power plant caused by the disaster has shown that safety is of paramount importance for installations of this type. it is therefore right that the european commission has decided to carry out without delay a safety audit of all nuclear power plants on our territory. european citizens have a right to safety and an independent expert audit of nuclear installations can alert us to possible shortcomings and risks that can be avoided by careful operation. i have no doubt that the findings of the safety audit of our nuclear facilities will result in important decisions that will force the operators of the power plants to immediately correct any deficiencies in their facilities and not to try to circumvent the safety criteria, the fulfilment of which must be a prerequisite for the operation of a nuclear power plant. commissioner, i am convinced that the european public expects us to have an open and honest dialogue today on the future of european energy policy, including the definition of new safety limits for all energy installations in europe.
the commission has also received comments from iceland, which has submitted a progress report on the implementation of the commitments made by the icelandic authorities. iceland is a fully functioning democracy and a country that meets all expected human rights standards. iceland is part of the european free trade area and is therefore compatible with the acquis in many areas covered by this agenda. this gives iceland a competitive edge compared to the other candidate countries. the icelandic authorities have also provided information on the financial situation of the icelandic banks and the financial sector in iceland. the disrupted banking sector and public debt at 90% of gdp are alarming. the situation is improving, but very slowly. i regard the reduction in inflation as a positive development in this area, but at the same time the increase in unemployment should be mentioned. i welcome the decision of iceland to consolidate the independence of the judiciary with regard to the appointment of judges. i personally consider iceland's progress in education and culture to be a great success. the country's level of compliance with european union standards is very high, which has led it to participate in the lifelong learning programmes youth in action and erasmus mundus. and i agree with the commission's conclusions that iceland is a stable democracy with strong institutions.
iceland has not seriously considered full eu membership since the beginning of european integration and applied for membership in 2009 after the financial collapse. nevertheless, it has managed to achieve european standards and to fulfil the conditions set for successful integration into the current european twenty-seven in various areas. membership of the european economic area and schengen has contributed significantly to this progress. although iceland is successful in implementing a significant part of european legislation, the accession process itself could complicate, for example, economic or fisheries policy. the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources. the icelandic authorities have also provided information on the financial situation of the icelandic banks. the fact that, despite the lack of support for the accession negotiations from the population, a significant proportion of icelanders are still not very keen on membership of the european union can also be seen as a negative. the authority will also assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it is compatible with the internal market pursuant to article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we have quite a balanced and objective report before us and i wish to thank all the colleagues who contributed to it. the report is of significant importance for the future of the country and its eu integration process. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been a candidate country since 2005 and now, for the second time, the commission has recommended that negotiations be opened. we are supporting this recommendation, and the report calls again on the council to open the negotiations immediately. i believe this is a timely call. the fyrom needs the european agenda as a stimulus to positive changes in the future. having said that, we should not be giving concessions to the fyrom but we do need to motivate its politicians to progress and work on the european agenda. the country has recently been going through a political crisis, with part of the opposition boycotting the parliament. this is not the way that political discourse should be conducted. political contradictions need to be addressed through dialogue, on the basis of democratic institutions created for that purpose. therefore i hope that the early elections called for june 2011 will contribute to resolving the situation. they should be transparent, free and fair and should be conducted in line with all applicable international standards and with the participation of all the political parties. the issue of regional cooperation and relations with neighbours is especially important for the fyrom and its neighbours. i hope that the main issue which has been holding the country back from starting negotiations will be resolved soon. in conclusion, let me say that we as politicians need to bring more vision and a broader perspective to the region. it is our duty and responsibility to stimulate positive changes in this country.
on the way from strasbourg to brussels, we pass through luxembourg twice. first through a sovereign state and then through the belgian region of the same name. if the belgians had followed greek logic in forming the european union, the european union would not exist today. macedonia is ready to open accession negotiations with the union. but if it is to continue on the path to democracy, it needs our help and solidarity, as greece did recently. i fully respect the right of veto of each member state on the admission of additional members. however, i appeal to my greek colleagues to show good will and support not only this report but also the amendment which returns the reference to macedonian as one of the official languages.
macedonia cannot deny that it has made significant progress in the last year. however, it still has reserves in key areas. i consider most important the need to ensure the independence of the judiciary, a level of freedom of expression in the media and the strengthening of civil society and the improvement of political dialogue. the ombudsman's office has had substantially more work to do in the last year, but the number of its recommendations accepted by the public administration has decreased. i therefore agree with the commission that the ombudsman's position must be further strengthened. however, i welcome the progress made in improving the protection of minority and cultural rights. macedonia has managed to significantly reduce the number of roma without identity documents. unfortunately, their living conditions are still poor and they continue to face discrimination. it is a problem that, as we all know, is not only a macedonian problem, but increasingly, the more the situation of the roma makes us feel that it is a european problem. despite the problems, macedonia remains a stable country in the region, with good relations with its neighbours, and i believe it is well on its way to the european union.
the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has long expressed interest in joining the european union. according to the information available, the country is now ready to open accession negotiations, as it sufficiently fulfils the necessary political criteria and has made progress in reforming the public administration, the judiciary and the police. the political system appears stable, political parties communicate with each other and the status of minorities has improved. some reservations can still be made regarding the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and freedom of expression in the media, which has a negative impact on the business environment and the inflow of foreign capital. however, progress has been made in the area of harmonisation of legislation and policies, in particular in the areas of free movement of goods, company law and financial services, as well as justice, freedom and security. i am therefore convinced that today the citizens of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia rightly expect a free europe to shake their hand. let us respect that trust and open the door to them on their way to the european union.
the credibility of the european union as a global political actor also depends on its ability and willingness to promote development and reforms to stabilise neighbouring countries. the european union's cooperation with the eastern partnership countries creates space for political rapprochement between these countries and the values of freedom and democracy. however, given the different political developments in each country, the european union must apply a differentiated approach and provide more eu assistance and resources to those eastern partners who are prepared to go further and faster in meeting their commitments. we could encourage more strongly, in particular, ukraine and the republic of moldova to move forward in the negotiations and to seek agreement on a deep and comprehensive free trade area. i think we should continue negotiations with armenia, azerbaijan and georgia. belarus will probably have to find forms of communication appropriate to the political situation. but the people of this country should not be held hostage by a political representation that has decided to apply a particular model of democracy.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, i really appreciate the commission’s strong commitment to condemning violence against women as a weapon of war – used systematically in armed conflict for a variety of purposes including humiliation, intimidation, political terror, extracting information, rewarding soldiers, and even ethnic cleansing. violence against women in armed conflict is largely based on traditional views of women as property. because women in many cultures play the role of transmitters of culture and symbols of nations, violence against women is also used as a means of attacking a society’s values and its honour. the rome statute of the international criminal court recognises sexual violence as part of an attack against civilians – against humanity – as being a war crime. various forms of sexual violence in armed conflict, including sexual slavery, forced marriage and forced pregnancy, are war crimes and should be considered as grave breaches of the geneva convention. too often, those responsible for acts of sexual violence in war go unpunished; too often, violence against women is accepted as an unavoidable part of war; too often, its perpetrators are granted amnesty as part of peace deals. it is time to condemn these inhuman practices in any part of the world, and our message today should be that perpetrators of these war crimes can no longer go unpunished.
sexual violence is not a violation of women's or men's human rights. there's no such thing. it is a crime against human dignity, which is one of the fundamental rights of every human being, woman and man. this applies not only to europe but also to egypt, libya, the congo and the other countries of africa and the middle east referred to in this resolution. military conflicts must not be an extenuating circumstance. in the congo, it started with the rape of women, and now men are being raped. but resolutions are just words. we need to act. the commission must start to monitor human rights violations in the world in detail and, at the same time, must devise the instruments by which europe will, if necessary, enforce them. otherwise, the partnerships we're investing so much in might as well be called pay-as-you-go.
the european investment bank was established to promote the objectives and policies of the european union within the union and abroad. the bank shall be self-financed by means of bonds guaranteed by the member states of the union. the rapporteur, mr cutaş, pointed out that the european union budget guarantees for the activities of the investment bank amounted to almost eur 20 billion at the end of 2009, which is also worthwhile for the european union's capabilities, and that parliament therefore, i think, rightly expects an explanation of the risks associated with this commitment. it would also be good to know more about the way in which the interest on loans granted and the administrative fees received from the budget of the european union are used. the european investment bank shall be accountable to the member states of the union, to the court of auditors and to olaf. the proposal to introduce potential regulatory oversight, which would also monitor the quality of finances, the financial situation, the accurate measurement of results or the observance of the rules of good practice contained in mr cutaş's report, seems to me to be stimulating and i would therefore recommend to the european commission that it seriously consider its establishment in the interests of greater transparency in the management of european union funds.
madam president, i want to propose that the final vote on this resolution be a roll-call vote.
there is certainly no doubt that the fukushima accident has shown that there is a need to tighten up the assessment of the operation of existing and the construction of new nuclear power plants. the legislation and the parameters of the stress tests of european nuclear power plants will need to be reviewed and adapted on the basis of common criteria applicable throughout the european union. since this is a global problem that knows no borders, it should even be an intercontinental agreement overseen by world authorities. but there is no rush to act, lest the baby be flushed out of the tub with the water. it is a matter of solving strictly technical problems, which politicization can only harm. we are witnessing many demagogic and unsubstantiated claims every day on the media, but also here in the european parliament. as the conclusions of the european parliament's deliberations fully reflect such a divergence of views, i abstained in the final vote on parliament's position.
the fukushima disaster has raised legitimate public concerns about the use of nuclear energy, and it is therefore appropriate to give serious thought to the current situation in the eu and take decisive action to increase safety, including safety, transparency in the operation of nuclear power plants, and the protection of human health. whether we like it or not, it is not possible today, even with the best of intentions, to imagine a functioning competitive energy market without nuclear energy contributing to a balanced energy mix. the union and the member states have an obligation to develop an energy policy which ensures the maintenance of the sovereignty, political independence and economic security of each state. the tools to achieve this goal include, in addition to an appropriate energy mix, an appropriate level of production capacity, a balance between supply and demand, a reduction in the energy intensity of the economy, and so on. i am not afraid to stress that nuclear energy is an important source of electricity production because it contributes to greater energy security, especially for countries with limited solid fuel resources. i abstained on the final vote, considering that it was a motion to pass a moratorium on new reactors. i certainly disagree.
in writing, japan faces its worst post-war disaster. top officials of the country called the devastating earthquake coupled with tsunami waves and the ensuing nuclear threat the worst crisis since u.s. combat troops dropped atomic bombs on the cities of hiroshima and nagasaki. the natural element is responsible for enormous and irreplaceable damage, especially to human lives and property. the situation at the fukushima nuclear power plant remains a particular threat. in order to avoid similar threats in the future, it is appropriate to consider the implementation of so-called load tests of nuclear power plants of the member states of the european union. these should demonstrate the capacity of the power plants to withstand similar disasters. a situation similar to that in japan could occur anywhere in europe. it is therefore desirable to monitor the safety system of nuclear power plants more closely, to strengthen its weaknesses and to eliminate any deficiencies. the pursuit of solutions to the nuclear problem - whether to increase its safety or to eliminate it altogether - is in the interests and within the capabilities of individual countries. but cooperation at pan-european level is also essential. because while europe is not threatened by tsunami tidal waves, in the 21st century, there are threats such as terrorist attacks, computer hacking of nuclear power plants, and so on. and it is really questionable to what extent power plants can cope with such potential threats in terms of safety.
in writing − more than 40 countries in the world are still among the least developed. i welcome the eu's efforts to take an active part in the un summit and i pledge to make concrete commitments in this regard. in the last 10 years, the poorest countries have made more progress than they did a decade ago. however, a number of problems remain: increasing dependence on imports of goods, poverty, low levels of human capital and vulnerability to climate change and natural disasters. these problems must be tackled from all sides, and two points are particularly important. first, these countries must get investment that flows into the productive spheres of the economy. secondly, we must help build democratic structures in these countries that will allow them to decide on their own strategic priorities without outside interference. a particular issue to be addressed is the volatility of commodity markets and the consequences that this has. in the long run, diversifying economies is the answer. in the short and medium term, it is important to control price shocks, especially in the food sector. given the eu's position, it is important to ensure the coherence of external policies. the commission document of 16.2 is exhaustive, but a more critical approach is needed. it is recognised that not all eu trade and foreign direct investment activities are consistent with development policy. i say they should submit to it.
in writing − the eib currently has an irreplaceable place in the provision of finance in the eu and beyond. the report presented welcomes the fact that the eib has taken the right approach to supporting smes in the eu in times of crisis. it is true that the bank has formally allocated eur 30 billion for four years to support smes. the problem is, not all of the money has gone to the businesses. in the v4 region, only around half of the allocated resources went to smes in the first period. the eib gave the banks an incomprehensibly long two-year period to allocate resources and, moreover, did not impose any sanctions on the banks for not respecting this deadline. the crisis-torn central european banks were very happy to 'support' these funds. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs were not met by the bank's capital needs alone, but by the bank's capital needs. and there's every reason to believe that it wasn't an accident, but a deliberate act. in conclusion, in brief, the eib is also problematic in the field of development. the bank should recruit more staff development specialists. the eib's current assets are undersized despite its influence in the so-called developing countries. i also agree with the rapporteur that the eib should strictly regulate its financing through intermediaries, which may end up in tax havens.
- i think we all look with appreciation and admiration at the efforts of the tibetans to win the right to govern their own country. many attempts by the government in exile or the dalai lama, the spiritual leader of the tibetan people, to find a sensible solution by negotiating with the chinese government have always failed. the chinese clearly do not see tibetans as partners in a common state, but as an obstacle that prevents them from fully appropriating the occupied territories. the position of the nepalese government is therefore complex. on the one hand, it should respect its international obligations and guarantee universal rights to the tibetan community, on the other hand, it cannot ignore the opinion of its huge neighbor. the attitude of the nepalese government to the elections to the tibetan government-in-exile tells us clearly who the real, real global players in this region are. for the nepalese government, it's china. we europeans can make some kind of symbolic gesture and declare our reservations about the weak nepalese government. but if we really want to achieve change in the position of the tibetan people, our dialogue partner has to be the chinese government, because it is the political leader of the region that influences the rules of regional policy. our declaration, of course, can appeal to the nepalese government, but it will not solve this problem.
- author this is not the first time we have discussed the way robert mugabe and his party govern. as early as july 2008, the european parliament adopted a resolution imposing sanctions against robert mugabe and his suite. the reason for this decision was, as it is today, the serious human rights violations by the ruling administration. new cases of intimidation, arrests, and the unexamined disappearances of political rivals of the ruling party confirm that robert mugabe and his political party realize that a fair and transparent political competition would deprive them of power and expose them to the threat of sanctions for years of terrorizing the population and plundering the wealth of their country. we will certainly all agree to adopt the prepared resolution in the hope that the measures initiated by the european union can help the people of zimbabwe, terrorized by the government, to reverse, if possible by peaceful means, the current difficult situation in zimbabwe with the help of civil society and opposition leaders. in this situation, welcoming ambassador robert mugabe to the european union would certainly be seen as an insult to decent people. and so, ladies and gentlemen, let us at least try to help with our political behaviour the important democratic changes in south africa.
mr president, commissioner, i see that our house is divided on this subject, but nevertheless, and despite the opinion of my colleagues, i agree with what the council has put forward. as a member of the committee on development, i would like to emphasise this aspect. immediate financial, humanitarian aid is needed in disasters like the one in pakistan, but it's not enough. the most effective way to promote development is to enable people to help themselves. i therefore welcome the abolition of customs barriers even if only transitional and i believe that it is precisely this transitional period that can help to evaluate the process proposed by the commission and, perhaps, subsequently, if this process and approach prove successful, i would review the definition of european union development aid. if anything is threatening the textile market in europe, it is china, not pakistan.
ladies and gentlemen, the india free trade agreement is certainly a sensational opportunity that has enormous potential to develop trade with the world's largest democracy. however, i am somewhat disappointed that the negotiations on the fta have not yet made significant progress towards a balanced agreement. in particular, the area of intellectual property rights requires clear and fair regulation, since it is human rights impermissible to jeopardise the fundamental rights of the poorest people in developing countries, including the right of access to generic medicines and healthcare. in the meantime, the commission and the indian authorities should and must intensify cooperation on a common definition of falsified medicines. this is also an important area that is harmful to patients' health, in a way that adequately protects public health.
madam president, commissioner, japan shares many common interests with the european union, not only in political matters but also in economic and trade cooperation. although both japan and the european union are advanced economies, their trade cooperation does not yet reflect the possibilities corresponding to their economic impact. in addition to tariffs, many barriers to trade are imposed by japan in the areas of standardisation, access to public procurement or government contracts. i am convinced that it is in our interest to improve trade cooperation with japan, but we must strive to make our cooperation fair, open, balanced and mutually beneficial. i therefore want to express my support for the european commission in its efforts to achieve this objective.
for the s&d group. good evening, madam president, commissioner, colleagues, colleagues. i have been informed that the commission has decided to withdraw the proposal. in the age of a globalised economy, the european union's common trade policy seems to us to be something quite natural. the initiative to coordinate investment policy at european union level is therefore equally normal. the current system based on a number of overlapping and sometimes conflicting bilateral investment agreements between member states should be replaced within a reasonable timeframe by a new framework of investment agreements of the european union. these should be in line with the horizontal objectives of the union's policies and i would personally like to advocate that the main emphasis be placed on development policy in particular. i agree with the rapporteur that the transition to a new regime should not happen overnight. it should take place within a pre-planned transitional period, the length and rules of which should be known in advance in order to avoid legal uncertainty. without such a timetable, the regulation would allow for the creation of parallel, potentially incompatible investment schemes. a sufficiently long transitional period is necessary to make the dual open-ended system unacceptable to parliament in this union investment policy. investment policy is a full competence of the european union under the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, the issue of protecting crossborder investment in the countries of the european union has become extremely complex and sensitive since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. more than 1200 bilateral investment agreements concluded by member states under different legal regimes, in many cases incompatible, need to be comprehensively transferred under the aegis of the european union while preserving the rights of the parties involved. the principle of the coexistence of agreements during a transitional period, which would allow member states to renegotiate the existence of a bilateral agreement or, in accordance with the investment policy of the european union, to complete the negotiations on those agreements which have been worked out, is perhaps the only possible way out of the legal morass created by the transfer of competence from the member states to the european union. however, it will be important to maintain the proper cooperation of the commission with the member states throughout this process, so that there is no real loss of legal certainty for investors and counterparties.
madam president, duff's report on the european elections is not on the agenda of this meeting after all. let's use this time to think about it and then, in a month, we'll throw it away. the idea of a transnational candidate is absurd. i have a few questions: why should slovak, german or italian voters vote for people they don't understand without an interpreter? how can the elected representatives represent them if they can't even read the letters the citizens send them? how many times does a greek mp elected in this way meet with slovak voters? what will they talk about? moreover, a pan-european candidate will only benefit large member states. the adoption of this report will vindicate all the eurosceptics who fear that the european union wants to become a transnational state. it will call into question the democratic legitimacy of this parliament and further alienate the european project from the citizens.
in 1990, józsef antall declared himself prime minister of all hungarians, including hungarians living outside the territory of hungary. today, viktor orbán is going further. a new constitution was adopted in which hungary proclaims the idea of a single hungarian nation, comprised of all hungarians, understood as persons of hungarian nationality regardless of their citizenship. this constitution also provides that hungary bears responsibility for the fate of hungarians abroad. that provision is contrary to international law, which holds that the state in which a national minority is situated is responsible for the promotion and protection of that minority. the new hungarian constitution also supports efforts to create collective self-governments of hungarian minorities living abroad on an ethnic basis. the provisions of the hungarian constitution can be a means of interfering in the internal affairs of foreign states, thus creating a seed of tension between hungary and the neighbouring countries. this is contrary to the spirit of democratic europe.
a hundred years ago, our forefathers were fighting for an eight-hour day and for a decent life and better working conditions. labour law is the law by which the state ensures a system of basic social rights for employees. the current government in slovakia is preparing an amendment to the labour code, which increases the working time fund to 56 hours per week and overtime hours from the current 400 to 560. in addition, it puts workers at a disadvantage, creates uncertainty for employees during the employment relationship, but also reduces financial support in case of job loss. the new legal rule paradoxically creates destabilisation for employers too. the union members are protesting in the streets against the new labor code. last year was declared the european year against poverty by the european parliament. all of europe is fighting poverty. the slovak government will contribute to increasing unemployment and poverty by means of labour legislation.
yesterday we celebrated the end of the second world war, today we celebrate europe day, and it must be said that the european union is a very special and unique model, built above all on democracy and the coexistence of nations within the european union. it is all the more depressing for us that just when we are celebrating such a significant anniversary, a few days earlier the hungarian parliament, and later the hungarian president, signed a constitution that is contrary to the basic principles of democracy. it is also sad because the hungarian government and hungary as a country is currently presiding over the european union. viktor orbán, as prime minister of hungary, has trampled on the basic democratic principles. not only did he not cooperate with the opposition in the adoption of his country's basic law, but the way the constitution is designed also violates the rights of minorities in a very fundamental way, and also violates good neighbourly relations between individual member states of the european union. i therefore hope that the conclusions of the venice commission will lead to this parliament also adopting a resolution which shows that the fidesz government is a bad government for hungary.
current studies of the impacts of climate change on forests in europe indicate a wide range of specific regional responses of forest ecosystems. the ability to cope with the nature and scale of the expected problems depends on the natural conditions of the region for example, mountain areas are exposed to different problems than lowland areas , on the physiological sensitivity of forest vegetation and the ready adaptation potential of individual ecosystems, on the expected intensity of climate change for central and eastern europe, for example, projected change one and a half times stronger than the global average, and on the technical capabilities of the forestry sector to implement adaptation measures, for example by changing the timber composition in favour of resistant species. it is therefore essential to take into account local and regional specificities, while respecting the specific characteristics of protected habitats, when designing protection and adaptation measures.
i was interested to hear about the problems of communicating with the european council on the implementation of its chapter on the general budget. as far as i know, one of the basic requirements of a parliamentary mandate is to control the executive branch. the council, the commission and the other institutions of the european union administer the funds of the citizens of the european union in accordance with agreed rules. it is therefore natural that the elected representatives of the people, on behalf of the taxpayers, check the institutions to see that they are handling the citizens' money carefully and in accordance with the agreed rules. it works the same way in all democratic countries. i therefore do not understand the european council's refusal to give us the necessary cooperation in assessing its budget. we are not asking whether mr sarkozy or mrs merkel go to a better or a worse restaurant or whether they buy a better or a worse bag or whether they dress at one company or another, we are asking how they spend the public money of the taxpayers, and we have the full right to do so and they have the full obligation to provide this information.
in writing. report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009, section i - european parliament. we still see many shortcomings that make us not quite economical with resources. in my work as chief rapporteur for the 2010 european union budget for the other sections area, i drew attention to specific instances of mismanagement. whether it was in the area of security services, where there is a constant increase in security costs, the area of translations and the efficient use of translation capacities, but also in other areas. the administration is seeing a significant increase in workload. the result is pressure to add capacity. a comprehensive assessment of the need for capacity and staff structure is therefore necessary. in the field of security policy, but also in the field of it and buildings, a balance needs to be found between internal staff and external suppliers. the internal problems of each institution neglect to improve interinstitutional cooperation. most of the growing problems have a common denominator: we make little use of independent analysis of resource use and work organisation. it is therefore desirable that we undertake such analyses in selected areas this year.
in writing. − on february 2010, in the presence and with the participation of the european union, greece, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and albania signed the agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area. the aim of this agreement is to ensure the protection of prespa park area and also a comprehensive ecosystem protection. not only do lakes and their surroundings have ecological importance, but also this area is naturally unique due to its geomorphological, ecological, biodiversity and cultural significance. it is a vital habitat for the conservation of numerous rare fauna and flora species, as a nesting place of globally threatened birds, and as a depositary of significant archaeological and traditional heritage. it was therefore desirable to obtain the consent of parliament to make sure that agreement could be adopted.
in writing. − in november 2009, the fao conference approved the agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing that may help to minimize this type of fishing and ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and marine ecosystems, as well. as the european union is one of the main representatives of international fisheries and one of the main global markets for fishery products, it is suitable and appropriate to promote the adoption of such proposals by the european institutions, too.
in writing. − the court estimates that financial irregularities or even possible misappropriation of funds in 2009 concern two to five per cent of all payments. this is much more than slovakia's annual contribution to the eu budget. we are to approve the accounts of 27 european agencies, and i suspect that europe would be better off without them. in fact, in the proposed budget for next year, we're going to add the very sectors where the audit revealed the biggest irregularities. the saddest thing is that this parliament may or may not give a discharge to the management of the european agencies and institutions, but that is irrelevant. everything will go on as before. stricter rules on the reallocation and accounting of these funds do not solve anything, as they lead to an increase in red tape and a slowing down of payments, so that the effectiveness of support programmes is ultimately reduced. i therefore advocate the gradual abolition of redistribution, which is becoming an increasingly opaque tool of modern social engineering. it distorts the market, reduces competitiveness and deprives people of initiative and responsibility for how and where they live. the less money we redistribute on the basis of political priorities, the less risk of corruption and the more viable european regions and our economy as a whole will be.
in writing. − this report deals with international investment treaties with third countries. the main objective of these treaties is to provide a high level of protection for investments and investors against arbitrary actions of governments of states receiving the investment. before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the member states were in charge of negotiating the signing of these investment agreements. with the lisbon treaty, foreign direct investment has become an exclusive competence of the eu and an integral part of the eu’s external trade policy. personally i think eu development policy might be superior to the trade and investment policy of the union.
in writing. − georgia has experienced a sharp economic decline since the outbreak of the military conflict with russia in august 2008. this resulted in huge direct and indirect damage; a large part of the population was displaced. the global financial crisis which broke out in autumn 2008 made the situation in georgia even more complicated. the proposed assistance – part of a comprehensive eu package of up to eur 500 million – aims to support georgia’s recovery following the armed conflict with russia, and also helps georgia address the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis. the assistance is to be allocated to the financing of the deficit of the state budget, and may help georgia to overcome its acute financial problems.
, in writing. let me express my disappointment that the commission is narrowing the whole issue of migration and asylum to problems in the mediterranean and schengen. the situation is critical. an ambitious strategy has long been expected from the commission. not an anti-european plan to rebuild national borders. commissioner malmström rightly points out that the free movement of people across european borders is a huge achievement that we must not lose. but in this sense the commission's proposal to manage immigration flows is incomprehensible. specific part that allows the introduction of border controls within the union, albeit only exceptional and temporary. the positive aspect is that such a measure cannot be decided by a state but only by the union. nevertheless, i regard this clause as backward and unnecessarily yielding to the populist pressure of the french and italian prime ministers. the issue is not one of triviality, but one of the eu's founding principles, freedom of movement. i'm not sure we should sacrifice it for the current problems of dealing with the migratory pressures from africa. i think the role of the union should be to plan how to distribute the migratory pressures from the mediterranean among the member states, how to effectively manage the integration of immigrants. in may and june, the commission gave notice of the adoption of a number of documents relating to migration. let me express the hope that the commission will maintain its foresight and cool head in formulating them.
, in writing. the mass movements of the population of north africa were foreseen several months ago and france and italy, together with the commission, should have responded immediately. their present statements and actions, with the police of one country not accepting a document from another, are more than astonishing. the demands to protect their interests at the internal border because of the 25,000 refugees are unprecedented and populist and are directed against everything that schengen stands for. on december 22, 2007, i was helping to saw the border fence at the slovak-hungarian border. given the enthusiasm of the people at the time, today's strengthening of internal borders would completely negate the idea of schengen. the eu must continue to prioritise freedom, the free movement of persons and goods and solidarity with all those in need. i am against internal borders, and therefore i expect the schengen management mechanisms to be strengthened in order to prevent the populist tendencies of some states, to prevent radicalisation, intolerance and to consolidate one of the greatest achievements of modern europe - schengen.
in writing. the debate in the european parliament's plenary also showed that the freedom of movement that schengen allows is one of the key pillars of european cooperation and that everything must be done to preserve it. but at the same time, we see that europe was not prepared for the increase in migrants from tunisia and libya. by issuing travel documents to these migrants, italy has enabled them to move freely within the schengen system. it also forced other countries, notably france and germany, to begin an intensive search for a solution. schengen allows states to introduce random border checks on travellers in an emergency, and denmark, for example, has already used this option. i do not think that a single european migration and asylum policy is the solution, this is a matter for the member states. at this point, schengen border states should recognise their responsibility to protect the common border and take measures to swiftly return economic migrants back to their country of origin.
i would like to begin by saying that the transparency situation in the european union is improving with the agreement presented, but let us be honest: it is still far from ideal. on the positive side, lobbyists now have a greater incentive to register, otherwise they will not be able to enter the european parliament. access to lobbyists' data, including their names, is also improved and it is also appreciated that lobbyists who do not comply with the rules will face various sanctions, for example they may be removed from the register, thus being blacklisted. the question is whether these measures are sufficient. for example, i cannot agree that registration is de facto compulsory, as only registered lobbyists have access to parliament. in order to increase transparency, it is essential that registration should be made de jure compulsory, and i hope that even in this election period we will succeed in doing so. rules on the reporting of expenditure by lobbying firms on lobbying activities should also be improved. the current arrangement allows lobbyists to report far less than they actually spend. equally important is transparency as to the financial sources from which lobbying and consultancy firms derive their income. in conclusion, i would very much appreciate it if colleagues would not confuse the topic of the 'transparency register' with the topic of the 'code of conduct', because it is a completely different topic. members who have become victims, albeit through their own fault, of a fictitious lobbying agency should not be a motivation for the creation of a transparency register.
i welcome and fully support the establishment of a transparency register and a list of lobbyists for organisations and self-employed individuals involved in shaping and implementing european union policy, as the tightening of standards to ensure the stable integrity of the union's public administration and the strengthening of institutional rules is a guarantee of the democratic functioning of the eu. of course, the register must not prevent members from fulfilling their duties under their mandate and meeting their constituents or representatives of public authorities on behalf of the member states on the european parliament's premises. however, there must be clear rules applying to representatives of special interest groups in order to guarantee an open, transparent and regular dialogue with those who seek in any way to participate in and influence the law-making of the european union.
we all remember well the terrible disaster at the chernobyl nuclear power plant 25 years ago. hundreds of thousands of people lost their lives, and to this day many suffer the consequences of radiation in the form of disease, even cancer deaths. i am very pleased that the european parliament is dealing with this issue of nuclear safety today, that is the key word, but the other key word is that without nuclear energy we cannot, unfortunately, do anything at all. whether in europe, america or china, where in china, america, india there are projects for new nuclear power plants, as you know, in europe too, i think it would be too much to stop any consideration of nuclear in the future. of course, the next key word is citizens' health and safety, and i'm glad that the stress tests that are planned will be both in the european union, but also should be, as was said here, in belarus, in ukraine in the future, in russia, so that we are safe citizens in the european union.
the chernobyl disaster showed us how important it is to have a sophisticated information system. we know that the soviet leadership kept the effects of the nuclear reactor damage secret for a very long time and that this had serious consequences for the people of the surrounding countries. in the future, it should be prepared that, as in chernobyl and fukushima, the plant operator has tried to cover up the damage and has tried to mitigate the information about these problems. so it is very important, from the point of view of safeguarding against a nuclear disaster, that information for both the public and the experts is very fast, very prompt and accurate. as for the causes, in chernobyl it was the failure of the human factor, in fukushima it was the natural disaster. we can prevent human failures, we can train workers, we can provide good automated protection, we must strive to ensure that such mechanisms are in place for the future.
on 18 march, the new european banking authority published the scenarios and methodology for the stress tests it intends to use to screen european banks. if the results of these tests are to be accepted by the professional public, we must avoid the superficiality and inconsistency that characterised the july 2010 banking sector tests. given that the credibility of the entire european financial sector is likely to be assessed by the complexity of these tests, it would be good if the tests were as comprehensive as possible and reflected in their complexity the real risks to which the financial sector may be exposed at this time. therefore, in my view, in these stress tests we cannot avoid an appropriate assessment of the exposure of banks to specific sovereign debt or to the debt of other banks in order to be able to take into account worst-case scenarios such as the insolvency of a country in the tests. we also need to ensure a balanced and fair approach to assessing the different banking structures and business models in each member state and to seek to apply the new stress tests to the entire banking sector in each member state, where possible. it's the only way to regain the trust of the financial experts.
it's a quarter to midnight and we're talking about a serious matter: the export of toxic waste to developing countries. it's scandalous that european countries in this modern age are doing what we saw in the oscar-winning movie by erin brockovich, which starred julia roberts, and where we saw that only in california can something like this happen, that factories export toxic waste and people then get seriously ill from it, they can even die. it is very sad that the member states of the european union are exporting their toxic waste to african countries which have little ability to defend themselves against it, and there are toxic elements such as lead, cadmium, mercury, asbestos and others, and i think it is good that the commission wants to continue to work on this. i would like to call on commissioner barnier, who has promised us that the commission will act more energetically, to take measures to improve the situation.
madam president, with regard to the report on the eu as a global actor, developments on the international scene show there is an urgent need for the eu to act more swiftly. this means being ready to face global challenges. the lisbon treaty has created the framework and necessary instruments for such action. we should start by addressing global governance gaps. examples such as the copenhagen climate change summit, the united nations general assembly resolution on enhancement of participation rights – congratulations to baroness ashton – or eu participation in the international monetary fund show the necessity not only of addressing these issues, but also of finding a common strategy. the report shows where the effort should be intensified. one of the most important fields is strengthening our role and coordination in the united nations system. the same applies to the international financial institutions and multilateral security organisations. all this will not happen automatically. it will take time and consistent and coordinated actions on our side. what we urgently need is a long-term strategy clearly defining the steps and actions we need to take in order to consolidate our place on the global scene. i hope that such a strategy will be proposed soon by baroness ashton and that we will have an opportunity to discuss it here in parliament. i have one further remark, which has more to do with the albertini report. this sunday there were local elections in albania. i was the head of the ep ad hoc delegation which participated in observing the elections, and i have a message to share with you. the citizens of albania – i am not speaking about the politicians but about the ordinary people – look at us – the eu – with trust and hope. they hope we will help them to find a solution to the very difficult political situation into which politicians have led their country. compared to our global ambitions, what is needed here is a small step. how good can we be in our home field? however, it is a test that we have to pass successfully and with dignity.
dear baroness ashton, it is clear to all of us that shortly after the creation of your office, we cannot expect you to lead large-scale security operations in crisis areas around the world. on the other hand, as president of the european council, you already have a wide margin for negotiation wherever the european union can be useful with its views and political influence. one of the problems which directly concerns the european union and which requires the use of sensitive round table discussions is the occupation of the territory of the european union by the turkish army in cyprus. the republic of turkey is a privileged partner of the european union and has also declared its interest in becoming a full member of our european grouping. i am therefore convinced that it is precisely in tackling this complex problem, in which the european union is a direct participant, that you can make full use of the potential already available to you in your capacity as president.
mr president, only one remark: i think ankara’s increasingly active foreign policy poses new challenges and opportunities for european foreign policy. madam high representative, i think that it is necessary to establish an institutionalised dialogue on key strategic issues such as energy policy, stability in the western balkans and the caucasus regions, iran’s nuclear dossier or the democratic awakening under way in the middle east. turkey in particular can play a constructive role in helping the eu consolidate the gains of the recent democratic awakening in the middle east. however, such dialogue should not substitute but complement and reinforce turkey’s accession track.
the report presented speaks of human rights as a priority agenda of the european union in international organisations, with particular emphasis on the rights of women and children and freedom of expression. at the same time, the report calls on the member states to support the european union's positions in these organisations. but so-called reproductive rights, which is just another name for the right to abortion, are also a priority on the european human rights agenda. on the contrary, european diplomacy is still not consistent in promoting religious freedom in all its aspects with an emphasis on respecting the rights of christians in the world. that's why i'd prefer if slovak diplomacy represented me and my constituents. i believe that on these matters, many of which fall within the competence of the national states, the european union will take a fundamentally different view.
in writing. − trade in foodstuffs occupies a very important place in the internal market. indication of the lot to which a foodstuff belongs meets the need for better information on the identity of products. it is therefore a useful source of information when foodstuffs are the subject of dispute or constitute a health hazard for consumers. in view of the variety of identification methods used, it should be up to the trader to determine the lot and to affix the corresponding indication or mark. at international level, there is a general obligation to provide a reference to the manufacturing or packaging lot of pre-packaged foodstuffs. it should be the duty of the union to contribute to the development of international trade by also applying those rules.
in writing. − units of measurement are essential in the use of all measuring instruments to express measurements or any indication of quantity. they are used in almost all fields of human activity and it is therefore necessary to ensure the greatest possible clarity in their use and set rules for their use within the european union for economic, public health, public safety or administrative purposes. member states should be able to require that measuring devices on their territory bear indications of quantity in a single legal unit of measurement. this directive supports the smooth functioning of the internal market through the degree of harmonisation of units of measurement. in this context it is appropriate for the commission to monitor market developments relating to this directive and its implementation, particularly with regard to possible barriers to the internal market and further harmonisation needed to overcome these obstacles.
in writing. − directive 70/157/eec is one of the separate directives of the ec type-approval system provided for in directive 2007/46/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 5 september 2007 establishing a framework for the approval of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, and lays down technical prescriptions concerning the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles. those technical prescriptions concern the approximation of the laws of the member states to enable the ec type-approval procedure provided for in directive 2007/46/ec to be applied in respect of each type of vehicle. consequently, the provisions laid down in directive 2007/46/ec relating to systems, components and separate technical units for vehicles apply to this directive. it is desirable to take into account the technical requirements adopted by the un economic commission for europe (un/ece) in its corresponding regulations annexed to the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions.
in writing. − council directive 87/402/eec of 25 june 1987 on roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver’s seat on narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors has been substantially amended several times. in the interests of clarity and rationality the said directive should be codified. the directive mentioned above is one of the separate directives of the ec type-approval system provided for in council directive 74/150/eec, as replaced by directive 2003/37/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 26 may 2003 on type-approval of agricultural or forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units and repealing directive 74/150/eec8, and lays down technical prescriptions concerning the design and construction of agricultural or forestry tractors as regards the roll-over protection structures mounted in front of the driver’s seat. those technical prescriptions concern the approximation of the laws of the member states to enable the ec type-approval procedure provided for in directive 2003/37/ec to be applied in respect of each type of tractor. consequently the provisions laid down in directive 2003/37/ec relating to agricultural and forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, apply to this directive.
in writing. − council directive 86/415/eec of 24 july 1986 on the installation, location, operation and identification of the controls of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors has been substantially amended several times. in the interests of clarity and rationality, the said directive should be codified. directive 86/415/eec is one of the separate directives of the ec type-approval system provided for in council directive 74/150/eec, as replaced by directive 2003/37/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 26 may 2003 on type-approval of agricultural or forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units and repealing directive 74/150/eec, and lays down technical prescriptions concerning the installation, location, operation and identification of controls. those technical prescriptions concern the approximation of the laws of the member states to enable the ec type-approval procedure provided for in directive 2003/37/ec to be applied in respect of each type of tractor. consequently, the provisions laid down in directive 2003/37/ec relating to agricultural and forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, apply to this directive.
in writing. − council directive 76/432/eec of 6 april 1976 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the braking devices of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors has been substantially amended several times. in the interests of clarity and rationality, the said directive should be codified. directive 76/432/eec is one of the separate directives of the ec type-approval system provided for in council directive 74/150/eec, as replaced by directive 2003/37/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 26 may 2003 on type-approval of agricultural or forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units and repealing directive 74/150/eec, and lays down technical prescriptions concerning braking devices. those technical prescriptions concern the approximation of the laws of the member states to enable the ec type-approval procedure provided for in directive 2003/37/ec to be applied in respect of each type of tractor. consequently, the provisions laid down in directive 2003/37/ec relating to agricultural and forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, apply to this directive.
in writing. − council directive 80/720/eec on the approximation of the laws of the states relating to the operating space, access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors has been substantially amended. in the interests of clarity the directive should be codified. directive 80/720/eec is one of the separate directives on the ec type-approval system provided for in directive 74/150/eec, as replaced by directive 2003/37/ec and of the council of 26 may 2003 on type-approval of agricultural or forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units and repealing directive 74/150/eec, and lays down technical prescriptions concerning the design and construction of agricultural or forestry tractors, as regards the operating space, access to the driving position as well as the doors and windows. those technical prescriptions concern the approximation of the laws of the states, to enable the ec type-approval procedure provided for in directive 2003/37/ec to be applied in respect of each type of tractor. consequently, the provisions laid down in directive 2003/37/ec relating to agricultural or forestry tractors, their trailers and interchangeable towed machinery, together with their systems, components and separate technical units, apply to this directive.
in writing. − the treaty aims to maintain an economic union with healthy competition and properties that are similar to those on the domestic market. as regards manufactured tobacco, the achievement of this aim presupposes that the application in the member states of taxes affecting the consumption of products in this sector does not distort conditions of competition and does not impede their free movement within the european union. as far as excise duties are concerned, the harmonisation of structures must, in particular, result in competition in the different categories of manufactured tobacco belonging to the same group not being distorted by the effects of charging the tax and, consequently, in the opening of the member states’ national markets. the imperative needs of competition imply a system of freely formed prices for all groups of manufactured tobacco and implementation of this policy needs to guarantee a high level of human health.
in writing. − the european single coinage system should inspire public confidence and include technological innovations to ensure that it is secure, reliable and effective. public confidence in the system depends on the physical properties of coins, which should be as user-friendly as possible. after consultations with consumer associations, european blind union representatives and the vending machines industry, research was carried out to take into account the specific requirements of important categories of coin users. in order to ensure a smooth changeover to the euro and to facilitate acceptance of the coinage systems by users, easy distinction between coins through visual and tactile characteristics needed to be guaranteed. the coins need to be covered with some special security features to limit the scope for fraud. the fact that they have one european and one national side is an appropriate expression of the idea of european monetary union between the member states.
in writing. − the current absence of harmonised rules on origin marking puts the eu at a disadvantage and also deprives european producers of origin-sensitive consumer goods of the opportunity to reap the benefits associated with producing within the union, while consumers miss the opportunity to have access to information on the origin of products. origin marking would facilitate consumer choice and contribute to reducing fraudulent, inaccurate or misleading claims of origin. this amendment introduces a requirement to indicate the presence of non-textile parts of animal origin in textile products. it should be highlighted that fur is often used as trimming in relatively inexpensive garments, which are often imported from asia. in order to eliminate potential obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market caused by diverging provisions or practices by member states, and in order to keep pace with the development of electronic commerce and future challenges in the market for textile products, it is necessary to examine the harmonisation and standardisation of other aspects of textile labelling with a view to facilitating the free movement of textile products in the internal market and achieving a uniform and high level of consumer protection throughout the eu.
in writing. − in council regulation (ec) 2007/2000, the european union granted exceptional unlimited duty-free access to eu markets for almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. the main objective of these measures is to revitalise the economies of the western balkans through privileged access to the eu market. in addition, economic development has promoted political stability throughout the region. these trade preferences were granted for the period that ended on 31 december 2010 and currently apply to bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo. the abolition of trade preferences could, however, have very negative consequences on the overall economic performance of the western balkans and consequently a negative effect on their domestic reforms and the transformation process. moreover, it could seriously jeopardize the economic recovery. in order not to disrupt trade, it is therefore desirable to extend the application of council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 to 31 december 2015.
in writing. − the european union is the world's biggest economy. the need for one single internal market is crucial for europe to take leadership in the global economy, with a focus on the service sector and the knowledge economy. the digital agenda and the digital economy can serve as a spearhead for making the internal market a reality for all parts of our economy. this requires an ability to take the lead on broadband and use of the internet. it is crucial for the european telecom industry to regain global leadership, but also in order to take the lead in the development of information technologies as such and in the emergence of new services and applications. even more importantly, it is also crucial in order to create a momentum for higher productivity, cohesion, competitiveness, and access to one single market for the european industry as a whole. we must aim to make europe the best and make what is best for europe: opening up new services and increased mobile traffic, laying the ground for new opportunities for culture and content, broadcasters and public services in the framework of broadband, and at the same time securing the same opportunities for broadcasting as of today.
in writing. - broadcasting frequencies are a national asset. european legislation must therefore respect the sovereignty of the member states in pursuing a common european interest in the use of these frequencies. on the other hand, the interests of slovakia and the other member states are in this area. the use of free bands for high-quality and fast data transmission benefits both citizens and businesses. european coordination is important here, as internet technologies are not limited by borders and their contribution grows with the number of participants. the aim of this proposal was to start addressing the issue of freed spectrum as soon as possible, so that europe could have a head start on other strong economies. this will create new jobs, new services and attract new investment to europe.
in writing. − following the ratification of the lisbon treaty, parliament’s powers have been strengthened and it is now co-legislator in almost all areas under the ordinary legislative procedure. as a result, it is the focus of attention of an even larger number of lobbyists, who, moreover, play a key role in the open, pluralist dialogue on which a democratic system is based, and act as an important source of information for members in the context of the performance of their duties. in the light of these developments, against this constitutional background and in keeping with their commitment to transparency, parliament and the commission have agreed to establish and maintain a joint register in order to keep a list of the names of, and exercise scrutiny over, the organisations and individuals who take part in the drafting and implementation of eu policies. one of the important corrective measures necessary is to improve the rules on lobbying firms’ reporting of expenditure incurred for lobbying activities. the current legislation allows lobbyists to report much less than is actually incurred. equally important is transparency with regard to the financial resources from which a lobbying and consulting company draws its revenue.
in writing. − transparency of political institutions is a prerequisite for legitimacy. it should be easy to scrutinise how decisions are made, what the influences are behind them and how resources, i.e. taxpayer’s money, are allocated. therefore rules for lobbying are ultimately a question of legitimacy. parliament was the first european institution to address the phenomenon of an increasing number of interest groups at european level, and in particular the consequences of this evolution for the legislative process. while registration is not obligatory, it can be considered as such ‘de facto’ because permanent access to parliament’s premises is granted only to registered representatives. however, it is desirable for the future to achieve a system of registration that is obligatory ‘de jure’. the common register ensures the widest participation of all categories of operators while respecting their different or specific identities. the new name ‘transparency register’ makes it easier for non-commercial organisations to join the register. this will be a step forward towards greater transparency in the european institutions, and i hope it will contribute to giving the european project greater legitimacy among europe’s citizens.
in writing. - lobbying is a legitimate activity. it's one of the basic manifestations of democracy. because representative democracy can only work when citizens communicate with their elected representatives and ask them to promote their interests. in this respect, it is irrelevant whether citizens turn to politicians as individuals, associations, or as trading companies or manufacturing enterprises. no regulation may therefore restrict one of the fundamental rights of citizens. but the reasons why an elected representative chooses to put one interest above another must be motivated by conviction, not personal gain. and the transparency of a member's work in dealing with people who are promoting their interests is perhaps the best tool to prevent corruption in the making of laws. i therefore support the proposed common register, which takes account of the different nature of interest groups and distinguishes between those who lobby to increase their profit and those who approach elected representatives to achieve more good for society as a whole.
in writing. − financial risk is essential to the existence of the financial sector, and is equally essential in terms of both the business success of that sector and security functions for the economy in general. however, it is in the public interest that risks should be restricted to prevent systemic crisis. this challenge, as important as it is complex, can be met by means of a package of measures which will have either direct or indirect impact. financial institutions should be obliged to prepare annual reports on the adequacy and effectiveness of their internal control systems, and boards should have these reports adopted. financial institutions should give greater attention to the implementation of measures to raise awareness about the risks, as better information about risk at all levels of society – and among employees – is often crucial in improving risk management.
in writing. − forests and other wooded land account for more than 42% of eu territory, providing a livelihood to millions of workers and entrepreneurs and 16 million forest owners. forest sector industries provide more than 2 million jobs, and forestry employs 350 000 people. among the common policies with an impact on forest protection are environmental policy, energy, industry and trade policies, as well as policy coherence, including regional policy and the solidarity fund. given the scale of the threats and the total area of forests in the eu, the financing should increase, eligibility to receive assistance should be extended to public bodies and producer groups, and contributions should be paid on an area basis and should cover protective measures.
in writing. − the report was adopted in the committee on foreign affairs by an overwhelming majority. it has achieved a balanced approach to the most pressing issues concerning the organisation and activities of the european external action service (eeas) and to key issues for the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), such as promotion of the values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, promotion of gender equality and energy security, the situation in iran and in afghanistan, the eu response to the democratic changes in the southern mediterranean region, and relations with major players such as russia, china, japan and india. the report strikes a balance on civilian-military cooperation in crisis resolution and on eu-nato interaction: on the one hand, it avoids relegating the eu exclusively to trade, development and humanitarian issues, the course pursued by the ecr group, and, on the other, it rejects the gue/ngl group’s insistence on excluding any military component from the cfsp.
in writing. − this report, which is in five parts – headed respectively security and foreign policy, security and defence, external and internal security, security through operations and security in partnership – provides a clear vision of how the eu should pursue its common security and defence policy in order to become an autonomous strategic player and to act as a force for security and stability in europe and the world.
in writing. − the eu is the largest contributor of development aid and the most important trade bloc but representation of the union, as such, in multilateral organisations remains fragmented. on the other hand, the eu member states are over-represented in all multilateral organisations with the exception of the world trade organization. this over-representation – particularly in the bretton woods institutions – often results in dissonance among the european voices and is perceived as hugely problematic by the emerging powers, which consider the status quo to be unfair. it would be appropriate that, in areas of exclusive competence, the eu should be the pre-eminent actor, with full membership, while the member states might also – but not necessarily – be present as members, without, in most cases, an independent role.
i don't want to look for a culprit, but i think the failure of the conciliation process is a failure, and we've poured dirty water on the baby. cloning is not only a complex but also a sensitive subject. dolly the sheep was neither the first nor the last animal to be cloned. tens of thousands more fail. deformed fetuses with oversized organs die in the wombs of the animals, others are stillborn, others die within days of birth. cloning is worse than animal abuse, like small cages or transport in a truck without water. therefore, the prohibition of the sale of cloned animals and their offspring is part of the novel food regulation. i don't think the complexity of the cloning issue is a priority right now. we should now send a clear signal to food producers that products from suffering animals do not belong on the european market.
more than two years have now passed since the adoption of the small business act and it is therefore appropriate that the commission issued a notice of review of the initiative in february. it appears that our efforts to promote a more favourable legislative environment for smes have not yet been sufficiently reflected in the business environment itself. the commission has therefore, following discussions with representatives of organisations representing smes, prepared further measures that could help to improve their situation. first of all, in my view, we need to focus more on implementing the new rules into national legislation. the experience of my country shows me that the national administrative sector is incredibly resilient and very tenaciously resists any changes that would limit its ability to bully small business owners. i think we must therefore continue to simplify the rules for smes with patience and consistency, and trust that our efforts will soon bear fruit.
portugal is another country that needs financial help from the euro, but let's be honest: we have to say that labelling this crisis as a 'debt' or a 'euro crisis' is very misleading. it gives the impression that the euro is in crisis because some member states are not managing their affairs in a rational way and are over-indebted. but ireland and portugal have managed with discipline and have been hit by a crisis they did not cause. the irresponsible were the poorly regulated banks. and it was the cost of bailing out these banks that got some of the eurozone countries into financial trouble. the current crisis is therefore more of a crisis of the european banking sector. if we are honest, the euro, or the new form of the euro, will certainly not be enough after 2013. the cost of saving the euro needs to be reduced by forcing commercial banks to admit losses, and the next step should be effective regulation of the financial sector.
innovation is one of the main drivers of europe's competitiveness, without which the strategic objectives set cannot be achieved. for example, the areas of public health and environmental protection are those most in need of innovation. the union and the member states must therefore provide financial or fiscal incentives to enterprises, individuals to focus scientific and technical research r&d in less lucrative but highly beneficial areas for the public. in my view, we are still allocating relatively small amounts of the budget to research, and i therefore stress the need for funding instruments in this area in future european union budgets. the european research area would also support the introduction of a single european patent, which, in addition to protecting the intellectual property of innovators, has the potential to reduce lengthy and costly bureaucratic processes and avoid repeated applications from a single entity in all member states.
for the efd group according to a report by the international labour organisation, domestic work accounts for about 5% of total employment. it is an invisible form of employment that takes place, not in a factory, a store, or an office, but in the homes of individuals. the workers are 90% women, who do not work in a collective, but alone within four walls. the aim of their work is not to produce added value but to provide care or services corresponding to the tasks that women normally perform in their own homes free of charge. as a result, this work is not remunerated and is often not considered as normal employment in accordance with labour law, with the result that women workers are subjected to unfair and unjustified treatment. very often, this work is done underground, and women workers, who come from rural areas or from abroad, are low-skilled, do not know their rights and become vulnerable. black-collar work robs workers of social protection and the community of income from taxes and social contributions. if we want to stop housework from being done in secret, we should make it a proper profession and overcome the stereotypes that often portray it as worthless. we should make it professional. however, this will require the introduction of new measures into the legal systems of the member states, in particular specific provisions in the fields of taxation, social security, labour and civil law, which take account of the specificities of the work thus performed. the current trend of offering and performing domestic work under the table is mostly economic, with both parties benefiting from the underground work rather than the officially registered work, which, in addition to taxes and fees, burdens both parties with extensive bureaucratic demands. the measures taken by the member states should therefore aim to change or even eliminate the benefits of undeclared work so that domestic work also becomes a specific form of decent work.
i would like to point out one fact that links veterinary medicine and human medicine. all the other european congresses of microbiologists, when they talked about antibiotic resistance in humans, they talked about what's called methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus. this is a plague that we in human medicine no longer have a valid antibiotic for, we can't cure it. up to 25,000 people a year die from it. please, how did this happen? the simply irresponsible use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine. they literally pump tons of antibiotics into the animals. in animals that are given it preventively, it is put in their food, and then it weakens the man and his ability to fight infection, perhaps in the hospital with such hospital strains. i would urge the commission to collect research from all member states urgently, but also to encourage new research into antibiotics that would be effective in humans and save lives.
the penetration of products from the chemical and pharmaceutical industries into the food chain is a concomitant sign of agricultural intensification. the human body thus becomes a natural victim of the efforts of food producers to produce as much food as possible in the cheapest and most efficient way. we must therefore begin to monitor very closely the use of modern chemistry and pharmacy in agriculture and, in order to safeguard the health of our citizens, to evaluate very carefully, systematically and on a permanent basis the consequences of the use of these substances. only high-quality, permanent monitoring of food products will enable us to identify in advance the risks or threats posed by new technologies to the current population. we talk more about antibiotics and antibiotic resistance today, but we need to look at this in a more complex way. and i hope that the commission will also see food safety as a coherent strategy.
for the s&d group i am very pleased that the european parliament has finally devoted an entire morning to culture and education at its plenary session. education is one of the key solutions in times of crisis and we must not forget that educated young people are our future. i welcome the european commission's youth on the move initiative and the fact that young people are not forgotten. investing in education even at the time of belt-tightening is the solution to the eternal problems of the european union. i congratulate the rapporteur of the european parliament, mr zver, on his report on youth on the move, which i regard as very good and particularly the fact that it is the work of the whole committee with the common aim of benefiting young people. the mobility of young people within the european union, and in particular facilitating it, is important for european identity and the activity of european citizenship. however, as you all know, i was very critical of the original initiative of the european commission, and i would therefore like to highlight some of the points that we have managed to get across in this report. it is certainly important that we continue to invest in mobility and youth programmes such as the existing erasmus, leonardo, but also in youth in action activities. this is certainly one of the ways in which we can achieve the objectives we set ourselves in our europe 2020 strategy. i also think it is very important to promote lifelong learning and activities not only for young people. i'm certainly emphasizing equal opportunity for all. not just on the basis of gender equality, but also for people with disabilities or otherwise disadvantaged. it is certainly important to recognise non-formal education as also a very important means of improving their skills that young people can use in their further future. dialogue between member states is also very important, but also between regions, and i am very pleased that we have also been able to promote some of the comments made by the committee of the regions, but also by other organisations such as the european youth forum. it's a lot, i can talk not only for two minutes, but for ten minutes, but i would like to leave one sentence for the end. i would also very much like to support as one of the original authors the sarajevo initiative, because it is very important that we show this region that the european union is here for them.
officer, please. i'd like to thank mrs. sanchez-schmid for the report. the eu institutions have set themselves the objective of making better use of the potential of the cultural and creative industries. this is an important task, because with better industrial conditions, the eu can become a global market leader in this field. culture contributes to the fight against poverty and fragmentation and plays a role in strengthening and preserving the common european consciousness and heritage. by giving free rein to creative thinking and the ideas that come from it, we can all benefit intellectually and economically. the kki industries are already important drivers and influencers of the economy, although their position is not always favourable. creativity can be unlimited, but the creative drive can be negatively affected. with an uncertain entrepreneurial environment, an unfavourable legal framework, the creative mood of citizens can be taken away. we can expect a european strategy to help the less well-off sections of the creative community to develop at european level. it could also help to create a certain balance of opportunity between member states, so that we can experience the presence and growth of the 5 million people working in industry in all member states. we also want to give small and medium-sized enterprises a role to play. central europe has a lot of well-to-do citizens who want to create. the question is, can we provide everyone with the right background today? unfortunately not, but more and more targeted programmes are being created to improve the situation, such as the danube strategy. this morning's discussion is also about youth. it is vital for future generations to have full european support in education, training and artistic creation. we must find solutions that make it attractive for them to create within the union and at the same time provide them with a place in international competition. in summary, the level of engagement with the creative industries is of great importance and it is therefore urgent to ensure that artists and creators have appropriate conditions in terms of mobility, intellectual property rights and social protection.
mr president, i am very sorry for the consequences of the earthquake in your country. i appreciate mary honeyball's work in managing the education of children in our community. the text is intended to overcome ideological prejudices and to find a place in the political spectrum. tak je to správne, pretože ide o rodina has dobro djece. tak je to správne, pretože ide o familia has dobro djece. tak je to správne,因为 ide o familia has dobro djece. the responsibility for the education of their children is their own. they also confirm the information requirements of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the un convention on the rights of the child. the responsibility of parents is stated in the universal declaration of human rights: "parents have the privileged right to choose the kind of education they wish for their children". zdieľam is convinced that investment in education and care will return to prosperity in the future. it is proved that the use of children in the workplace constitutes the basis of responsibility and the obligation to social administration. the report also stresses that the care provided is the best way to prevent future youth crime. this is in connection with the preparation of a report on the contribution of equal opportunities policies and parental responsibility in the fight against juvenile delinquency. equally, there is a marked increase in the percentage of women in the labour market each year. many mothers prefer to take care of their young children before they enter formal employment. i choose to be free, because society values the work of women in the home very little, if at all. the report does not include a proposal that states should financially support the work of the matek foundation in the education of at least one child, if they are to contribute to the development of pre-school facilities. the report is a step in the right direction and further developments in society should bring this issue to greater attention.
as shadow rapporteur on the regi committee's report on unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative industries, i consider it important that the cultural and creative industries have been recognised as a tool for local and regional development. there are still plenty of regions lagging behind, despite the impact of the financial crisis, and cultural and creative projects will certainly contribute to job creation and competitiveness. it is important that member states, regions and local authorities make the best use of eu programmes to support culture and creativity, cohesion policy, structural policy and others. for the cultural and creative industries, it is important to define funding options. financing is the biggest barrier to growth for many businesses. it is therefore important, as the rapporteur calls for, that private capital, public-private partnerships and sponsorship be integrated into the culture and creative industries. i support the motion.
the report on early childhood education includes a reference to the difficulty of access to education for children from poorer families. among them, the rapporteur identified children from roma families, whose access to early childhood education is very low, as the most at risk group. it is therefore essential that member states are able to create special conditions for access to education for children whose parents, for various reasons, do not provide their children with the material or family background that would allow them to participate without major difficulties in the standard education system. however, special care for children from higher risk groups must be provided with great sensitivity to avoid stigmatising these children or families, which could increase the risk of their social exclusion. therefore, mechanisms for special care for these children need to be continuously modified and improved in order to successfully integrate as many children from risk groups as possible into our society.
, in writing. youth unemployment, which has arisen as a result of the economic crisis, is a major challenge across the eu, which has not been adequately addressed by the eu or the member states. the employment situation of young people depends on general economic policies and member states should therefore shift towards investment and job creation. unfortunately, the austerity measures we have seen in our country, which also affect the education system and the reduction of expenditure on job creation, do not really help young people and in the long run, by feeling excluded from society, the labour market and the economy, can be put at risk. the economic crisis should not be a reason to reduce education spending, as higher levels of training for young people are needed to overcome the effects of the crisis. the success and effectiveness of the youth on the move initiative will depend to a large extent on the attitude, key actions and financial support of the member states to implement these programmes at national level, which can contribute to the social integration of young people. the role of local education institutions and local and regional authorities in training and mobility is also very important, which is why i believe it is necessary to support the mobility of teachers and youth and education workers, who are the ones who can motivate young people. in order to achieve the above objectives of the union, a partnership approach should also be developed with local and regional authorities.
i supported the european youth on the move initiative, which aims to reduce the proportion of students leaving early education from 15% to 10% by 2020 and to increase the proportion of people with a university degree from 31% to 40%. in comparison, in the us, 40% of the population has a college degree, and in japan, 50% of the population has a college degree. currently, 14.4% of young people aged 18-24 in europe have less than a upper secondary education and about 21% of young people are unemployed. i also support the youth on the move initiative's focus on providing education that is in line with the needs of the labour market. it is estimated that by 2020 the share of jobs requiring high qualifications will rise from 29% to 35%.
i said and i said in the debate that mrs. honeyball was trying to find common ground across the political spectrum. however, i abstained in the final vote because i think that this report interferes with the competences of the national states on several points. this is most evident in the fact that it welcomes the barcelona objectives, even though the barcelona objectives ended in failure precisely because they were only certain figures that were centrally dictated from the european union to the individual member states. i think it is important to leave it to the member states to determine the number of pre-school facilities they need, because it is not just a matter of numbers, it is also a matter of quality and culture in the country. i very much regret that i could not support this report, but on fundamental issues it contradicted the convictions i hold.
childhood is undoubtedly of vital importance for the physical, mental and social development of the child. it is therefore necessary to recognise that the return on investment in early childhood education is a guarantee of future growth. moreover, numerous studies have already shown that the financing thus used brings considerable economic and social benefits in the medium and long term. the best and most natural safeguard for this kind of support is the protection of the family as the basic unit of society. parents are the first and foremost teachers of their children and therefore the legal framework should not contain provisions which penalise parents for taking personal care of their children, especially at an early age. this agenda is the exclusive competence of the member states. it is more than desirable that the union, through its coordination function, should contribute to improving the situation in the individual member states.
i fully agree with the requirement that the impact assessment of smes in all relevant legislative proposals must be carried out systematically at national but also at european level, as these enterprises are the real backbone of the european economy and as such provide more than 100 million jobs. however, current practice shows that at regional and local level, access to financial support for early innovation and to support start-ups and small innovative businesses in the eu remains very inadequate and uneven. the heterogeneity is also confirmed by the fact that 75% of the total eur 21 billion allocated to financial support was fully made available through intermediary banks, of which only 50 000 out of a total of 23 million smes could benefit.
in writing − the reports presented and the discussions so far have addressed culture and education from a variety of perspectives. i think it's a very important aspect of developing creativity from birth. the report by my colleague honeyball points out that in many respects it is best to start early. according to the human rights instruments in force in europe, children are fully-fledged, active and engaged citizens with their own rights. they have enormous creative potential. the period from birth to three years of age has a profound effect on the development of the mind and on physical and cognitive development. this early period also lays the foundations for lifelong learning, which plays an essential role in achieving the lisbon objectives. access to early childhood education and care services is generally less accessible to poor families, often roma. it is all the more sad that it is children from disadvantaged families who would benefit most from being able to use these services. care should therefore be taken to make education and care accessible to all families and children, regardless of the background or financial situation of the parents. i don't like to resort to pragmatic, economic arguments in human rights issues, something that should be taken for granted and at least dependent on the economic situation. however, it must be said that the decision not to invest in this area actually entails costs that may not be immediately recognisable.
in writing − early childhood is undoubtedly crucial for the physical, mental and social development of the child, so it is important to recognise that the return on investment in pre-school education is a guarantee of future growth. moreover, numerous studies have already shown that the financing thus used brings considerable economic and social benefits in the medium and long term. the best and most natural safeguard for this kind of support is the protection of the family as the basic unit of society. parents are the first and most important teachers of their children and therefore the legal framework should not contain provisions penalising parents for taking personal care of their children, especially at an early age. while this agenda is the exclusive competence of the member states, it is more than desirable that the union, through its coordination function, contribute to improving the situation in the member states. for the reasons i have given, i support the rapporteur's position.
in writing. − it is not new that animals, like humans, that take antibiotics, become resistant to them over time. this resistance can be transmitted from animals to humans, thus threatening health or making it difficult to treat certain diseases. it is therefore important to monitor the use of antibiotics in livestock in detail. it is about consumer protection and food safety. it must be guaranteed at the same high level in all eu member states. it is appropriate for the european parliament, composed of the elected representatives of the citizens, to ask the commission to act. only if we know the current situation can we react quickly and effectively. i therefore supported the report presented and expect the commission to present shortly a proposal for action to monitor the use of antibiotics in the livestock sector.
for the efd group the long-running armed conflict between the government troops and the liberation tigers of tamil eelam (ltte) militants, which has had a very severe impact on the civilian population living in the areas of fighting, was brought to an end in 2009. following the end of the war, sri lankan president mahinda rajapaksa committed to investigate all alleged violations of military law as well as international humanitarian law during the conflict. a united nations report released in april of this year found that both sides in the conflict had carried out military operations with little regard for the rights and lives of civilians. however, even two years after the end of the war, the responsible institutions in sri lanka have not held accountable those responsible for serious violations of humanitarian law. the judicial authorities are ineffective in many cases and therefore our resolution must support the efforts of the united nations to establish justice and to hold accountable the killing and maiming of thousands of civilians during the brutal fighting between the liberation tigers of tamil eelam and the sri lankan government troops.
for the epp group the state of democracy and human rights in azerbaijan raises legitimate concerns. this concerns freedom of speech, of the media, of assembly, and many other areas. we're following incidents of arrests and political pressure on democracy activists, journalists and political opposition. azerbaijan, but also other countries in the region, need to be given a clear signal that violations of human and civil rights cannot be accepted under any circumstances. if they want to be eu partner countries, they must respect its values. the discussion of violations of human rights and democratic standards should therefore concern the entire south caucasus region. in this context, i would also like to draw attention to the renewed escalation of tensions between azerbaijan and armenia in the nagorno-karabakh region. this situation already poses a security risk for the entire region. that is why it is important to pass this resolution right now. the union should act more actively and responsibly not only in azerbaijan but also in the region as a whole. we should take advantage of the experience of the conflict between russia and georgia and prevent similar tragedies from happening again.
for the efd group, azerbaijan is one of the european union's special partners, a founding member of the euronest group, and therefore appropriately benefits from privileged relations with the european union. however, as a country with such an exceptional status, it has also committed itself, in concluding mutual agreements as a partner of the european union, to respecting the principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, which are the basic preconditions for such cooperation. therefore, the unjustified arrest of journalists, representatives of youth organisations and civil society activists, the banning of peaceful protests and the use of physical violence against protesters are unacceptable. i expect the high representative and vice-president of the commission, baroness ashton, as well as the european commission to address the azerbaijani government and convey our concern about the suppression of democracy in the country and to call for an immediate remedy. by adopting the prepared resolution, we will give the commission and the hr the necessary mandate to take such action.
in writing i thank the rapporteur, mr leinen, for his report. i agree with her assessment of the commission proposal and would like to make a few remarks on the importance of such activities. measuring quality of life through indicators like gross domestic product is too shortsighted. experts have been agreeing on this for quite some time, but it's only recently that this message has been making its way into politics, and it's been slow and difficult. in this respect, i very much welcome the commission's proposal for european environmental economic accounts. it is not enough to reject misleading indicators outright. their alternative should not be to assess the situation with regard to quality of life and the environment on the basis of impressions. on the contrary, better data and a better methodology for collecting and aggregating them are needed to serve us better - for example, to assess the environmental impact of policies and economic activities. i would like to join the rapporteur in calling for the commission's proposal to give greater emphasis to monitoring and evaluation. lastly, i would like to stress that it is very important that the commission's proposal incorporates and builds on the strategy paper 'more than gdp: a measure of progress in a changing world' in an even more integrated way. perhaps more than anything else, consistency and systematicity will be important in efforts to improve quality of life measurement.
the european union, within its powers, negotiates trade and economic agreements with all the major countries. canada is a major player in international trade and one of the european union's oldest trading partners. however, we must proceed with great sensitivity and constructivity in finalising the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the european union and canada. our differences in certain areas, such as pharmaceutical policy, fisheries policy, shale extraction, need to be arranged in the agreement so that they represent the european union's policy while respecting the views of the trading partner. reciprocity is a fundamental relationship in balanced trade and economic relations. however, in no case should the comprehensive economic and trade agreement reduce the certification parameters used and accepted in europe. i want to believe that the european commission can correctly resolve the remaining problems in the final stage.
the announcement on friday by european union officials that the international monetary fund would release another tranche of credit to greece of 12 billion euros was received positively by the markets. today, however, the spanish newspaper el país reported that the autonomous region of castilla-la mancha had run out of money. the regional government not only has no money to pay the salaries of 76,000 employees, but also owes about 2 billion euros to various suppliers. so, another piece of bad news has come in from spain, a country that has been struggling for a long time to regain investor confidence. the policy of helping governments by buying their debts by the european central bank will not be able to continue for long, however, and has its limits. already today, the european central bank has on its books up to €360 billion in non-marketable financial instruments. it has a further eur 480 billion in badly secured securities, gradually becoming the leader in bad financial assets. if this continues, dear friends, the eurozone will soon either have to rescue the european central bank or it will simply dissolve.
credit rating agencies providing security ratings for financial products have been criticised for unprofessional or purposeless ratings of financial products since the financial crisis. the mechanisms of their functioning have not been sufficiently transparent, raising doubts about the correctness or professionalism of the assessments. it is therefore appropriate to look at ways of improving the mechanisms allowing for the permanent assessment and evaluation of financial products. in this respect, i consider the report by the rapporteur to be very important and i believe that the paths he has indicated in his report will lead to changing the mechanism for assessing financial products so that the conclusions offered, whether by credit rating agencies or other mechanisms, will lead to a more objective assessment of individual financial products.
mr president, madam vice-president, impact studies enable us to fulfil our role as legislators. their bad reputation is partly due to the risk of manipulation. we can ask for studies based on our public opinion. these studies can be serious and scientifically correct. i would remind you of one example, namely the impact study that the committee on women's rights commissioned in the context of the maternity leave directive. the study was so useless that we regretted having spent the taxpayer's money. thank you angelika for your work in preparing the resolution. your approach helps us to legislate better for the benefit of citizens in the member states.
it is true that even within the european union, the social protection of workers is often much weaker than it should be. this is particularly true for migrant groups who travel for work to other countries, where they often do not know the language and local regulations and then, of course, cannot build up the kind of positions that belong to domestic workers. nevertheless, i think it is important that the european union should strive to ensure that the rules and agreements of the international labour organisation are also applied in international agreements with third countries, because as we know the labour market and working conditions in asia, africa or other regions of the world, i think we must strive to ensure that the situation of workers in these regions and in these areas is also significantly improved. so i personally support mr falbr and his report and i am convinced that it opens the way to improving these rules in europe too.
mr president, madam vice-president, our colleague gay mitchell is a recognized expert on the committee on development. that is why his report is so well drawn up and i thank him for it. i would like to stress only one small point: respect for the principle of subsidiarity. the greatest gift we can give is not money. it is a matter of public record that the union imposes its western values and standards on the developing countries through its budget. we are obliged to demand respect for human rights, but the future depends on respect for the right of peoples to self-determination. we must respect their values and culture while providing western financial aid.
i'd like to thank mrs. wallis, it's a brave move. i do not know how things will go from here, but we must of course make sure that european citizens, european traders and european consumers have, i would say, the same rules. so that they can buy, trade and therefore conduct business under the same rules. given the complexity of the european legal mechanism, the national legislations, one system that could be optional and could be applied across the european union is an interesting subject, but it's probably a sisyphean task, because we're probably going to run into different legal systems, different reservations of lawyers, different jurisdictions. i'm afraid it's going to be very difficult to implement, but let's go ahead and see.
in writing. the transition from education to work is a structural challenge for workers across the european union. unfortunately, early unemployment has long-lasting negative effects. member states should therefore ensure that vocational education and training is better adapted to labour market needs and that vocational education and training provides workers with the skills needed to fill the new sustainable jobs that will emerge in the sustainable economy of the future. i consider the role of local authorities, entrepreneurial partnerships and educational institutions to be important in shaping the labour market needs of vocational training. the possibility of mobility is an important part of vocational training, but in order to strengthen cross-border cooperation and to promote mobility, greater emphasis should be placed on better coordination of the education systems of the member states, including the recognition of certificates and diplomas. high-quality vocational education and training makes a fundamental contribution to sustainable development. to ensure the effectiveness of vocational training systems, the capacity of trainers, especially at regional and local levels, to effectively transfer knowledge should be improved. an important prerequisite for a successful professional career is the opportunity to study in an international environment, which promotes the acquisition of multilingual skills and increases competitiveness.
commissioner, i welcome this debate. we're looking at this problem from different angles, looking at the source of the infection, identifying the pathogen, looking at treatment options. i'm just waiting for the pharmaceutical company to come out with a cure for this disease and start another panic. the biggest reservations i see are in informing the public. informing citizens about what food they should not buy on what day because it is suspicious, i think is insufficient and irresponsible. citizens need to be informed and there should be a single campaign, at both eu and national level, on how they should behave in their daily lives. if citizens observe basic hygiene rules, if they observe personal hygiene plus washing and, if necessary, heat treatment of food, it is enough to protect themselves from this disease. it's a campaign that's not challenging, but i think that epidemics, different diseases have been here and will be here in the future, and what has saved citizens in particular is their personal behavior. i am convinced that such a campaign would help prevent disease and would also help the growers.
written by society is slowly getting used to the fact that every year there's some epidemic once it's bird flu, then swine flu, now it's bacteria in fresh vegetables. this epidemic has also caused great loss of life and financial damage. the main difference from previous epidemics, i think, is that we still haven't been able to pinpoint the source of this disease - first it was cucumbers, now it's kidney beans. questions also arise about the wrongdoing of member states. i am referring to the mistake made by germany, which refused the commission's help and tried to solve the crisis on its own. false allegations have caused huge financial losses to spanish farmers, not only to them but probably to the entire agricultural sector. the european commission yesterday proposed €150 million in compensation for vegetable growers affected by intestinal disease in germany. i think it is very important that in the case of an error, as in the case of spain, there should be a correction. according to the latest developments, it seems that the only damage that has occurred is the financial loss of european farmers. but we must not forget that the highest price we have paid for this epidemic is the dozens of victims across many member states of the european union! it is our duty to act to prevent such doubts and leaks.
in writing − as expected, the hearing of the swedish candidate for the post of member of the court of auditors was not problematic. as the voting turned out, the final result was slightly in favor of the candidate. he has ministerial experience as well as experience of working in the private sector. he also worked in the ministry of defence, dealing with finance and budgets at a higher level, and was also a supporter of sweden's membership in the eu.
written - the central district court of buda, budapest, requests the european parliament to waive the immunity of its member, ágnes hankiss, in connection with the reopening of the criminal proceedings. agnes hankiss was charged by a private prosecutor with allegedly committing the offence of public defamation and in particular the offence of desecrating the memory of a deceased person, the plaintiff's father. in the light of the foregoing, and in accordance with the rules of procedure of the committee on legal affairs, i consider it appropriate to recommend that the immunity be waived in this case.
written − the commission is also seeking to promote the uniformity of import rules by aligning the rules for importing textiles with those for other industrial products. this should improve the overall coherence of the legislative environment in this area. the legal instrument to be repealed concerns the conditions for accepting proof of origin of certain textiles and textile products originating in third countries. i am of the opinion that the aim should be to implement trade policy measures which would help to avoid market distortions caused by a sharp increase in imports from third countries such as the people's republic of china.
in the czech republic, the use of illicit drugs is illegal, and the use of illicit drugs is illegal. significant and large-scale cocaine seizures in croatia are mostly linked to maritime transport. the use and trafficking of illicit drugs are global phenomena that threaten health and social stability. therefore, particularly with a view to raising awareness of the issue and preventing the use of drugs and other narcotic substances, i welcome the participation of the republic of croatia in the activities of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction.
in writing − the aim of this regulation is to simplify regulatory constraints so that euro banknotes and coins can circulate more easily between member states, while ensuring a high level of professionalism and security within the euro area. it is appropriate to extend the scope of this regulation, given that the period leading up to the introduction of the euro in the euro area member states is characterised by an increased need to transport euro cash.
in writing in june 2010, the commission published an action plan for the applications of the global navigation satellite system (gnss), which included 24 specific recommendations. this action plan was drawn up at a time when global navigation satellite systems were being introduced, namely egnos (european geostationary navigation overlay service). satellite navigation systems should ensure interoperability between different systems and should also be applicable to passenger and freight transport. i believe that the commission should take the necessary steps to coordinate the implementation of the action plan and to ensure progress in those eu policy areas where gnss applications are concerned.
in writing − if you have after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009, the conditions under which parliament's consent to the conclusion of an international agreement is required have been extended. air transport agreements currently fall into this category. previously, such agreements were only consulted with parliament. however, the new powers conferred on parliament by the treaty of lisbon also bring with them new responsibilities. i believe that parliament must be able to follow the progress of the negotiations before it is confronted with the possibility of accepting or rejecting the final text of individual international agreements. moreover, the relevant criteria for air service agreements with third countries should include the possibility of balanced access to markets and investment opportunities, as well as fair competition in the area of state subsidies and environmental and social standards.
in writing − if you have some time has elapsed since the adoption of the european parliament's opinion on the eurovignette iii directive at first reading. the directive should allow member states if they so wish - to charge road users for certain (limited) external costs, so that the so-called 'polluter pays' principle is finally introduced in the road transport sector. it will also provide member states with additional opportunities to increase the efficiency of national road charging systems, which is a better demand management tool in the transport sector. these objectives have been confirmed by the council's opinion and it is now desirable for the commission to take steps leading to sustainable transport development, interoperability, a harmonised charging system and further internalisation of external costs.
in writing − environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation by providing data on the environmental effects of economic activities in particular. such information can be very important for environmental policy decisions. recycling and waste prevention, air pollution and climate change, and sustainable consumption and production could be monitored much more effectively if high-quality data on the interaction between environmental and economic factors were available. i believe that the collection of relevant data, which has been voluntary until now, should become mandatory. moreover, the introduction of a common framework for the collection, processing, transmission and evaluation of european environmental economic accounts in this area would facilitate the political evaluation of european environmental policy.
sudan's bloody civil war, which has raged for more than two decades, has devastated the country and left millions of its inhabitants devastated or tragically scarred. the atrocities committed during the civil war were finally stopped by the signing of a peace agreement, an integral part of which was the holding of a successful referendum. prevention is the best medicine and i am therefore convinced that the european union's funds for sudan should be allocated not only to humanitarian and development aid but also to supporting the democratic establishment and the rule of law, which are the basic conditions for the exercise of the basic human rights of the war-torn sudanese. the results of the referendum clearly show the desire of the predominantly christian south sudan for independence. if that happens, and i believe it already has, south sudan, as the youngest country in the world, will need assistance and support.
i fully agree with the statement and the statement of mrs ashton, but at the same time i share the concern about the next developments in this country. the abyei region of sudan has been a place of conflict for many years. less than six years ago, more than 20 years of civil war ended. this area has been a key area of conflict and according to the international crisis group, developments in this part of the country will affect the fate of the whole of sudan. will the country keep the peace or will it fall back into some kind of war? in the event of the southern part becoming independent, the most peaceful transition possible should be encouraged. i would therefore like to express my support for the commission, which strongly condemns the use of force against innocent civilians, against whom the sudanese army has intervened and continues to intervene and occupy this region. the european union has the opportunity to be a peacemaker and to help stability in the region and to strengthen not only its position as the world's largest donor but also its political position and, above all, to help the people of this country.
after independence, which is due to take place exactly one month from now, south sudan will have to face a number of humanitarian and socio-economic challenges. in these circumstances, external assistance to support south sudan in fighting extreme poverty, strengthening local communities and accelerating the benefits of peace for the population will be even more important for a long time to come. although south sudan is expected to apply to accede to the cotonou agreement, the 10th european development fund will only be available for a certain period of time after accession to the agreement. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs on the implementation of the unscrs. this is clearly to be avoided because of the threat of humanitarian catastrophe, and therefore we should do everything in our power to help the sudanese people get through this critical period and to prevent a repetition of bloody conflicts.
colleagues, i never trusted president bashir and i don't trust him now. it's pretty clear from that that i'm a pessimist that nothing will happen in the sudan. i am convinced that this president will attempt to intervene militarily against the south, whether by seizing some of the territory or some of the major cities or resources. from this point of view, it would be very interesting to know what preventive actions or preventive measures the office of the high commissioner has in place to prevent this from happening, in cooperation with the united nations or the african union, for example, on the one hand, and then of course it would be very interesting to know what kind of way or what kind of steps the office would want to take if this happens, in the event that north sudan does not comply with the peace treaty that has been signed, which i am quite convinced of.
south sudan is a country that voted for independence and will be the newest member of the united nations. it's a country that voted for independence, but it's dependent on practically everything. it is dependent on its northern neighbour and it is dependent on aid, both from europe and from the surrounding african countries. it's a country where men aren't trained to work. guys wait for a signal when some war starts to take up arms and start fighting each other. it's a country where only women and children work, children don't go to school, and therefore they're not educated. it's a country that has no workers, no teachers, no doctors. it's a country where everything has to be built from the ground up, and so it's going to be very difficult and very challenging to build a proper political system here and get this country back on its feet. this is a difficult task not only for europe but also for the united nations.
freedom of movement is one of the fundamental freedoms and achievements of the citizens of the member states of the european union and i would like to support, on behalf of our group, the socialist and democratic group in the european parliament, the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. i must say that both the audit report and the rapporteur's own opinion are positive and that they should be thanked for this, but at the same time express such disquiet. the dismay at how some colleagues from countries that themselves have problems with illegal immigration, that themselves have problems with corruption, look at romania and bulgaria today. bulgaria and romania are full members of the european union and we must treat them in the same way as other members of the european union. so if you are going to assess the accession of bulgaria and romania, if we are going to vote on it tomorrow, i would very much like you to look at it the way you would look at your own countries.
i stand here today to support unequivocally the entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area. i think mr coelho's report very much supports this view that these two countries are fully prepared and have met all the conditions. bulgaria and romania have been members of the european union for four years, for some of my colleagues, if you haven't noticed, and some of their questions and their racist remarks about these countries really make me feel very bad as a citizen of the european union, because if we're talking about illegal immigrants from these countries who happen to be able to somehow disrupt our territory, we're actually talking about members and citizens of the european union, so there are certainly no illegal immigrants. i think that those who meet the conditions should be given the opportunity to become members of the schengen area, and this is the fundamental principle of equality on which the european union is founded, and anyone who questions this questions the fundamental principles of the european union.
the republic of bulgaria and romania have taken all the necessary measures to be part of the schengen area in three years. the criteria and measures for securing the external borders are not simple. both countries have done so and are rightly considered to be members of the common schengen area, despite the fact that europe is currently facing an influx of migrants from africa. importantly, the evaluation committee, whose members visited both countries in person, found that both romania and bulgaria complied with the schengen requirements. i am confident that the report will be approved by the members of the european parliament and then unanimously adopted by the council. i wish the citizens of romania and the republic of bulgaria to experience the excitement that i myself experienced when i sawed the border fence on 22 december 2007, when slovakia became part of schengen.
europe is in crisis... the tax arrears of the autonomous regions exceed 20% of the budget compared to the pre-crisis period, which is intolerable. the blackouts are very similar for cities and towns. they can't fund their core competencies, they lay off employees, they go into debt. in this situation, it is not surprising that they do not understand why the european parliament is asking for more resources. but if countries coordinated their policies and funding around priorities, they would achieve better results and save more money than the amount we want to increase the eu's common budget by. so there is no better alternative than the one we're talking about today. we need to discuss this more, argue. not only in the european parliament, but also with the ministers in the council, with the members of the national parliaments, but also with the regions... to understand that joint solutions will not only bring the best outcome for our citizens, but also save national budgets.
mr president, amendment 9 speaks about protection of eu policies concerning overseas countries and territories, yet specifically speaks about saint pierre and miquelon. my oral amendment, and my group, aims to speak for and protect fairly and equally all overseas territories and countries, and not to speak specifically about saint pierre and miquelon. so it reads:‘calls on the commission, with a view to ensuring the consistency of eu policies, in particular those concerning overseas countries and territories (octs), to make sure that the interests of octs in relation to their strategic products are protected in the future agreement between the eu and canada’.
mr. president, i have to go. the european union's current seventh framework programme ensures that it can bring its research policy up to date. with a budget of over eur 54 billion for the period 2007-13, it is one of the largest research funding programmes in the world. to ensure that the seventh framework programme continues to meet european expectations, we need to prepare an interim evaluation based on concrete data. i think the process of simplification is one of the most important things to say in a semester review like this. in our experience, the complexity and difficulty of administrative procedures has been one of the biggest problems for our researchers. the other important thing is to improve the participation of smes. unfortunately, we need to make further efforts in this area, although we can see some improvement in the programmes in the area of cooperation. we can also agree to introduce a financial mechanism for risk-sharing. this should be continued and intensified in any case until the end of the seventh framework programme and in subsequent programmes. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
i supported the report, but there are still concerns about public funding for embryonic cell research. according to the advocate general of the european court of justice, embryonic cells are considered to be human embryos, that is, beings from which life arises. since those cells represent the first stage of human life that they become, they must be legally qualified as embryos, the patentability of which must be excluded. in the light of this finding, the european commission should immediately take into account the decisions and conclusions of the european court of justice and adapt its science and research funding policy to them.
promoting and promoting social responsibility in external relations can be an interesting adventure. i'm sorry that in this social justice we don't go in our activities to even. social responsibility must focus on the poorest, on those on the margins of society, on those who are unskilled and most vulnerable to manipulation. in short, those furthest from the labour market. the french programme 'learning and working together', initiated by atd quart monde and the french state, is a good example of a solidary enterprise that safeguards the authentic social responsibility of partnership with the most disadvantaged workers. in this way, the union can bring real added value to this policy.
the content of the new multiannual financial framework must clearly reflect the vision of the future of the union and its citizens. the current economic and social challenges we face need to be addressed not only in spectacular speeches but above all in concrete budget chapters. whether we look at the current challenges and at the ambitions of the eu and its regions from a regional or even a global perspective, the most pressing issues remain energy shortages, slowing economic growth and unemployment. the development and innovation of europe's energy infrastructure must therefore remain a priority area requiring a significant increase in funding. in my view, a return to coal burning is not, in the present ecological context, the solution for the future and the creation of a fully-fledged trans-european transport network. these two areas are essential to the competitiveness of the european union as a whole and to the functioning of the internal market and as such deserve special attention in budgetary planning.
in writing − romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis when they joined the eu in 2007. the essential condition for the council to decide to abolish internal border controls with these member states is to verify, in the context of the evaluation procedures, that the new member states have fulfilled the necessary conditions for the application of all parts of the schengen acquis (data protection, sis, air borders, land borders, sea borders, police cooperation and visas). in order to enable the european parliament to clearly assess all the elements necessary to give an opinion on whether these two countries are ready to join the schengen area, full access to the expert evaluation reports on the preparation process of these two countries is necessary. however, i believe that both romania and bulgaria have now demonstrated that they are sufficiently prepared to apply all the provisions of the schengen acquis in a satisfactory manner. at the same time, however, the situation cannot be underestimated and it is necessary to think now about how to keep the situation under control after the countries have fully joined schengen.
written − the european union should play an active role in building a united nations that can effectively contribute to global solutions, peace, security, democracy and an international order based on the rule of law. it is desirable to promote multilateralism as the union's overriding strategic interest and to enhance the eu's cohesion and visibility as a global actor on the un scene. the changing international order is challenging the european union to focus more actively on current and emerging world powers and other bilateral and multilateral partnerships in order to promote effective solutions to problems affecting eu citizens and the world at large.
written − the report assesses whether the eu's 7th framework programme for research and technological development can offer an opportunity to consolidate the golden and europe's key knowledge, education and research triangle. the programme welcomes, among other things, the participation rate and the excellent results in project selection, but it is regrettable that the success rate of the programme in general remains relatively low. the sound management of public finances under this programme is essential and i also believe that any change or redirection must be carried out in a way that respects the stability, overall coherence and legal certainty that are the basis for mutual trust between the parties involved.
in writing, the eu began negotiations on a comprehensive economic trade agreement with canada in 2009. the potential agreement covers a wide range of issues: trade in goods and services, intellectual property rights, public procurement, regulatory cooperation, investment, temporary migration, competition policy, labour and environmental standards. i believe that it is appropriate for both sides to seek agreement as a matter of priority on a number of key points, such as the issue of public procurement, investment and public services.
in writing − this report addresses the key issues concerning the rating industry, including the lack of competition, oligopolistic structures and lack of accountability and transparency, particularly with regard to sovereign debt ratings. i therefore believe that it is essential to take steps to create a european credit rating agency which could contribute to a new rating model and create the conditions for the development of genuine competitiveness.
in writing − the external dimension of social policy is one of the key priorities of the socialist and democratic group. it is essential to strengthen labour standards, such as freedom of association, collective bargaining, the elimination of compulsory and forced labour, employment and occupational discrimination and the prohibition of child labour. the aim and the ambition of international labour standards should therefore be to ensure that economic development continues to focus primarily on improving human life and dignity, and not just on determining the conditions and rights of workers.
in writing − i believe that vocational education and training should be accessible and affordable throughout life, regardless of people's status in the labour market or their income. access to vocational training should respond to the individual needs of individuals and consequently facilitate their integration into the labour market. opportunities need to be created in the eu member states for specific groups, such as unemployed youth, ethnic minorities, vulnerable women, people with disabilities, etc., in order to achieve better social integration and greater social cohesion. last but not least, expanded, simplified and more accessible funding options would undoubtedly contribute to the successful implementation of these objectives.
written - the report examines the performance of the development cooperation instrument (dci) following the negotiations on the mff. a review of the overall structure of the external financing instruments appears appropriate. the possible further simplification and adaptation to new challenges, such as climate change, as well as the right place for the external dimension of eu internal policies are important aspects to consider. i believe it is equally important to set out procedures and structures that will protect development as a separate policy area with its own specific objectives.
in writing − impact assessments are a central tool in the legislative process, which european legislators should make more use of in the future. because, although they do not in any way replace political debate or the democratic and legitimate decision-making process of the legislator and serve only to prepare a political decision, they do, in terms of their technical content, alert legislators to the potential effects of their policies and assist them in taking decisions. in doing so, they can make a significant contribution to better lawmaking.
in writing − contract law defines and organises transactions within the internal market. choosing the right path forward in contract law can make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the internal market and to unlocking its full potential for businesses (in particular smes) and consumers. given that any initiative in the area of contract law will need to respond clearly to the current needs and concerns of businesses and consumers, i believe that any rationale in this area will need to be based on practical evidence relating to the current situation in contract law and any difficulties faced by businesses and consumers, in particular in cross-border transactions. the broad and balanced involvement of stakeholders is essential and will be particularly crucial during the legislative process and will require ensuring inclusiveness and transparency by all available means. a diversified impact assessment is needed, which will draw on the wide range of policy options and focus on practical issues that are important for the functioning of the optional instrument.
in writing, the gdp has become an indicator of societal development and progress. however, it is not a measure of environmental sustainability or social inclusion. in view of the need to improve these data and indicators, the commission presented a communication entitled 'more than gdp: a measure of progress in a changing world'. it proposes, for example, the development of more comprehensive indicators that would provide a more robust knowledge base. i consider it necessary to create a tool that can complement gdp, taking into account the fact that it must have practical application, use clearly defined indicators and be based on high-quality data.
written − the european union has taken an important step by its political decision, enshrined in regulation no 683/2008, to establish an autonomous european global navigation satellite system (gnss) (galileo and egnos), owned and operated by the union. the commission should carry out a comprehensive analysis in order to obtain a more accurate description of possible scenarios and means for operation and exploitation beyond 2013. this includes all commercial aspects of exploitation as well as the legal, contractual and financial structures of the different exploitation models that guarantee that a stable governance model is established.
in writing − in a context where many member states are undertaking demanding fiscal interventions, the eu budget must be better justified than ever before. it should ensure the highest level of european added value, be managed sensibly and encourage as much public and private resources as possible. the structure of the future mff should be realistic, allow for continuity of planning and avoid the shortcomings of the current mff, in particular the lack of flexibility within the circuits. given the way the eu's own resources system has evolved, gradually being replaced by contributions from member states and consequently perceived as an excessive burden on member states' public finances, reform of this system is more necessary than ever. i believe that a better system ensuring fairness, transparency and sufficient budgetary revenue would allow the budgetary decision-making process to focus more on the union's key priorities. in particular, the existing derogations and corrective mechanisms should be phased out, which would be a necessary step towards greater fairness and transparency of the eu budget.
for the efd group the revised constitution of hungary of april this year has rightly become the subject of criticism by the entire european democratic community. it has introduced provisions into the hungarian legal system which ignore international law and are in direct contradiction with the international commitments undertaken by the republic of hungary. the ruling fidesz party has introduced into the constitution such texts that hungary usurps the right to decide on the status, rights or political organization of all hungarian-speaking citizens of the surrounding states. reserves the right to grant to all such citizens of neighbouring states who are not connected in any way with the republic of hungary, hungarian citizenship, the right to vote in hungary, the right to social security or education under hungarian law and universal hungarian diplomatic protection. under international law, the organization of the political system is a sovereign matter of sovereign countries, and therefore we cannot view the provisions of the hungarian constitution that hungary reserves the right to decide on the organization of the lives of citizens of other states as a primitive and unmitigated attack on peaceful coexistence in europe. the idea of one nation, one empire, and so forth is not new. and that little black führer, who in his lust for power and glory in europe, has abused her for the last time, has long been condemned by the decent, civilized and democratic world. therefore, i want to believe that in the next legislative process, the democratic, political forces in the hungarian parliament will correct all the mistakes and amend the basic law so that it is in line with international law and hungary's international obligations.
on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, i want to state unequivocally that we recognize the right of the member states of the european union to legislate on their own initiative and that we do not want to criticise hungary, let alone the citizens of the republic of hungary. our comments and concerns are not therefore aimed at criticising the republic of hungary and the hungarian people, but we are convinced that the protection of fundamental rights, civil liberties, our common european values, as well as peace, security and good coexistence are sufficient reasons to have this debate here today. we also believe that the discussion and presentation of our questions and concerns can lead to an improvement and better preparation of the implementation legislation mentioned above. commissioner, like you, we want to follow the procedure for the correctness of this whole process and we will wait for the final opinion of the venice commission. although it is already evident from the preliminary conclusions presented in the libe committee by the secretary of the venice commission, mr markert, that the current hungarian constitution is at least controversial on several points. and not only the libe committee, but also the constitutional affairs committee sees vulnerable places in the hungarian constitution. apart from the romantic, almost monarchical vision in which the preamble is framed, let me mention some areas which, unlike our colleagues from fidesz, who are also members of the european parliament, are very sensitive to us. for example, the principle of adopting a constitution mentioned above. it's not unusual for a democratic country to have a five-week review process. it is not usual for the opposition not to participate, and it must be said that despite having the necessary majority, fidezs is also humble. the limitation of the constitutional court's competence has also been mentioned here, and i would also like to mention for our group the discriminatory nature of the case against members of sexual minorities, where the constitution does not explicitly prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. the protection of the hungarian minority abroad, which is directly affected by article d, also concerns persons of hungarian nationality living in neighbouring countries. ladies and gentlemen, the european union and its mission is to live together as peoples, as states of the european union, in peace, cooperation and mutual respect. how do we in the countries that are directly affected by this perceive this constitution. as you would expect us to accept it. we, unlike you, have always shook hands with you in friendship, we have always wanted our coexistence to be good, so we want the implementing regulations of your constitution to respect the sovereignty of the neighbouring states in this area.
i got an invitation to the bridge of nations exhibit today. the event is being organized by your colleague. in his invitation, he used the motto of jean monnet, the founder of the european union, who said that the union is built by people. madam speaker, both the constitution and the bridges should be built by people. i want to ask you why the coalition in hungary was not interested in the opposition also participating in the constitution drafting process.
ladies and gentlemen, the new hungarian constitution is indeed perhaps the most reactionary constitution in europe. but that's one side of the story, the other side of the story is that she's also internationally dangerous. some colleagues here have said that this is a sovereign matter of hungary. that's true, but this constitution violates the sovereignty of other countries. commissioner, this is the most important thing. he's questioning the peaceful order of europe. it questions the boundaries between states. he openly exploits minorities in neighbouring countries for extreme nationalist purposes. it's imbued with the spirit of the greater hungary. in the context of granting citizenship on a purely ethnic basis, regardless of residence, work or family ties, it opens a pandora's box of extreme nationalism, the likes of which we have not seen in europe since the second world war. not only that. it allows the granting of the right to vote to hungarians permanently living in neighbouring countries. can you imagine hungarian political parties campaigning in another country? in short, the new hungarian constitution is leading to a total destabilization of central europe. it brings the spirit of the balkan wars to central europe. the president of the hungarian parliament, lászló kövér, recently said that the gabčíkovo-nagymaros water project required military intervention on the hungarian side. that slovakia is not covered by the paris peace treaties, and so he questioned its borders in the context of the spirit of this constitution. i think it is time for the european union and the european parliament to say a firm no to this dangerous nationalist policy. while there's time.
today's europe is based on values that unite us and enable us to work together in mutual respect. i too want to emphasize that every state has the right to adopt its own constitution through democratically elected representatives. however, hungary's new constitution also opens up issues that are sensitive and affect its neighbours. i'm talking about article 23 for example. it provides for the possibility of obtaining the right to vote for members of the hungarian minority in neighbouring countries on condition that they acquire hungarian citizenship. and that's the problem. the non-standard setting of the criteria for acquiring hungarian citizenship, i.e. without a natural link to hungary, creates the possibility of political ties between the state and citizens who have no real link to it. i also find the wording in part d problematic. it's about the united hungarian nation, about collective rights, about supporting their self-government abroad on an ethnic basis, about hungary's responsibility for all hungarians. so in one paragraph 4 of the place for possible extraterritorial effects of this constitution. the slovak government is seeking a calm, substantive discussion of these issues at the bilateral level. however, it refers to the negative position of hungary. because i think that now that the constitution is not in force, it's a good time to discuss it, to explain what the negative effects could be. one more thing. in our current enlargement policy of the european union, we are trying to put the emphasis on the fact that the neighbourhood relations between future states are dealt with on the basis of our european values. let us imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what the union would do if, for example, serbia today decided to grant citizenship en masse to the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina or albania to the citizens of macedonia. i would like to say once again that only in a situation of mutual respect for values and cooperation can we talk about the further future joint building of the european union.
madam president, is the question for me? my sincere answer is: i cannot answer your question.
the unprecedented statement by the president of the parliament, the second high representative of the republic of hungary, mr kövé, questioning the treaty of paris, questioning the borders, only confirms the degree of revisionism applied by hungarian policy. it is sad that the government of ivety radičová in slovakia, under the guise of non-conflict, is hiding its inability to respond to dual citizenship, the constitution of the republic of hungary, the right to vote of hungarians living in neighbouring countries and the statements of the president of parliament. i regret the incompetence of our government, but i am also struck by the silence of the european institutions, which seem to be unwilling to see the presidency trample on european law. i hope that the representatives of the european institutions are listening carefully and monitoring the situation in hungary and will soon be speaking out rigorously about questioning the borders, questioning the paris peace treaty, and the hungarian constitution, which enshrines the support for the collective rights of hungarian minorities and the creation of collective self-government.
as a slovak citizen, i would like to express my opinion on what is happening here today. i am one of those who have not been granted mass hungarian citizenship by hungary, because it is given to those who ask for it individually. i asked for a word for one thing only, and that was the almost warlike tone that some of my colleagues struck. i am extremely concerned that the hungarian constitution is being interpreted as an attack on european peaceful coexistence. i feel that it is because of completely misinterpreted texts, or texts that are translated wrongly - like the right to vote, which is not in the constitution - that these terribly bad-tempered, really war-mongering texts are happening, which do not belong in the european parliament.
ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, russia is still demanding a two-pronged approach. on the one hand, the firm insistence on the implementation of democratic principles, but at the same time the rejection of the bush-style anti-russian policy. russia certainly has no right to any spheres of influence. all former soviet republics have the right to freely choose where they want to belong. but surely he has a right to security and international security. this feeling would certainly ease the internal situation in russia. it is necessary to involve russia in world politics on the side of europe so that russia feels that it is an accepted partner in the creation of an international, but democratic order. the partnership for modernisation must not only fulfil the state-monopoly ambitions of the russian government, but must also open up the space for free industrial and scientific activities, as my colleague mr fleckenstein has mentioned and discussed here. if we were to adopt such a changed approach to russia itself, we could have the inner hope that democratic processes would be unleashed to a much greater extent in russia itself, with the certainty and confidence that they can bring to european politics. i'm keeping my fingers crossed that this will work out in the next negotiation.
we have always had a number of problematic issues ready for negotiation with russia, such as the level of civil rights, the senseless ban on the import of vegetables from the european union, the missile shield located in the european union, and russia's problematic involvement in several former soviet republics. i do not want to say that we should avoid negotiating on these complex issues, but i am convinced that we cannot remain on these issues alone. we should also bring new subjects for mutually beneficial cooperation. european producers need new outlets for their products. russia is a vast trading area with a constantly growing purchasing power. this calls for greater efforts to remove barriers to trade cooperation and to jointly support projects such as the extension of the pacific broad gauge railway as far as possible into the european union. such projects can create new impulses for cooperation, the implementation of which will benefit not only europe but also ukraine, russia and many asian countries.
for the epp group the european union's relations with mongolia have developed positively over the past two decades, in particular in the context of the gradual democratization, modernisation and demographic transformation of mongolia. however, closer cooperation with the european union depends on building confidence in the long-term stability of the mongolian political regime by deepening human rights guarantees and the rule of law, provided, of course, that the judicial system functions properly and that corruption in the public sphere is eliminated. the move towards a genuine market economy must also be accompanied by continued restructuring, reforms in trade and investment law and an increase in the private sector's share of the economy. i consider it a positive fact that the country has adopted a law to protect competition, which aims to prevent the abuse of a dominant position by private or state-owned companies and the creation of cartels to the detriment of other businesses and consumers. i firmly believe that the reforms will attract foreign investors and consequently increase the well-being of the mongolian people, who, especially in the countryside, continue to suffer from deprivation due to their dependence on agriculture. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i am very much in favour of - and commissioner füle has indicated this in such a positive way - i am very much in favour of the establishment of a permanent delegation of the european union in mongolia, because i believe in the potential for developing political and trade relations, not to mention the fact that the country has a huge stock of raw materials, which is strategically located between china and russia, and i therefore believe that political and trade relations between the union and its member states and mongolia should be further developed.
for the s&d group first of all, these companies are not just deceptive, they are fraudulent. business is important when it contributes to society as a whole, but if someone is quasi-business by luring other honest businessmen and companies into their list for the sole purpose of enriching themselves and doing so by deception, then it is just plain fraud, no matter how much he claims it is not illegal. it should also be noted that these practices of directory companies are clearly illegal under the misleading and comparative advertising directive. however, there is no need to introduce new legislation here. what needs to be focused on is the effort to put the law into practice as quickly and effectively as possible. the problem is that companies often attack businesses in another eu member state and often small family businesses are unable to defend themselves effectively in practice, or at great expense. i have just one additional question: does the commission see any room for a public campaign to name individual companies out loud and to call on honest businessmen not to cooperate with them?
i would like to begin by saying that i appreciate the approach of the european commission, which has been quick to respond to the concerns of europeans that the large number of nuclear power plants in europe pose a certain danger to them, and has therefore launched a transparent review of all 143 nuclear power plants in the european union. please note, ladies and gentlemen, that with stress tests we are only at the beginning of a wide-ranging dialogue on this issue. because only after we have evaluated them will we see what the real state of nuclear energy in europe is. i am convinced that the information gained from the stress tests will put us in front of the next round of talks on this topic, namely talks on the new security policy of the european union in this area. so let us not today question the commission's efforts to examine the safety risks of our nuclear power stations and let us try to obtain as much objective information as possible on their actual state. it will help us in our future decisions on nuclear safety in europe.
in writing − if you have after independence, which is due to take place in exactly one month, south sudan will have to face several humanitarian and socio-economic problems. support from neighbouring countries to south sudan will be even more important than ever in the fight against poverty, in strengthening local communities and in accelerating the benefits of peace for the population for a long time to come. in the immediate post-referendum period, while the country has access to multilateral financial resources, there is a risk of a funding gap resulting in south sudan being highly vulnerable and highly vulnerable to state collapse. it is therefore, in my view, essential that the european union does everything in its power to help the sudanese people to get through this critical period and to prevent the looming humanitarian catastrophe. because only if a country has confidence in a peaceful future can it begin to work systematically to achieve its development goals.
written. − the resolution deals with the preparations for the eu-russia summit to be held in nizhny novgorod on 9 and 10 june 2011. the summit will focus on common challenges such as the economic and financial crisis, accession to the wto, energy and energy security issues, the long-term drive for visa-free travel between the eu and russia, and other international and regional issues. russia, of course, represents a huge market for eu goods and is also a major supplier of oil and natural gas to the eu member states. relations between russia and the eu have been steadily improving in recent times, but even so, there is a degree of reservation and distance between the parties. i believe that if appropriate steps are not taken to remedy this, the eu's influence may gradually diminish not only in russia but also in its neighbouring countries, and there is a risk that the relationship with the union will be reduced to a mere trading partner.
in writing - clearly, the directory companies in question are not merely misleading or deceptive. they're also shell companies. because if someone lures tradesmen and businesses into his list for the sole purpose of personal gain and enrichment, he is clearly committing an illegal act. such practices by directory companies are also clearly illegal under the misleading and comparative advertising directive. but i don't think we need to invent new legislation. it is desirable to seek the fastest and most effective implementation of the law in practice and to try to create the conditions for small family businesses to be able to defend themselves effectively.
mr president, just as the right to life has a very special place among human rights, the death penalty has no place in democratic societies. today, europe is the only region in the world where the death penalty has been abolished, with the sad exception of belarus. i would like to emphasise that the european union remains strongly committed to the abolition of the death penalty everywhere. there is no doubt that the transatlantic relationship is invaluable to the european union, as is as our mutual cooperation in the fight against terrorism. still, i would like to take this opportunity to support the call on the united states authorities not to seek the death penalty in the case of abd al-rahim al-nashiri. in conclusion, i would like join all colleagues who urge countries that retain capital punishment to follow the european model, outlaw the death penalty and make abolition a universally accepted value. all executions, wherever they take place, should be condemned.
the ukrainian political scene is marked by governorate modes of governance that have deep roots in the former soviet era. the peculiar political behaviour was also characteristic of the leader of the orange revolution, president yushchenko and prime minister tymoshenko. after all, it was not only in ukraine that it was a public secret that the real cause of the gas crisis that hit us in early 2009 was the dispute between the family clans of prime minister tymoshenko and president yushchenko over the control of the profits from gas transportation. i agree that the use of unjustified criminalization of political opponents to suppress opposition forces is unacceptable. but to say that none of the representatives of the tymoshenko team committed any treachery during their savage rule, i consider very bold. the reason the tymoshenko government lost the elections was that ordinary people were no longer willing to look at the widespread corruption and theft of public property by some government officials. so if we really want to help ukraine develop an open democratic society, let's focus on systemic recommendations, but let's not tell them that these prominent people who may be sympathetic to some of you or close to you should be treated differently than other suspects in criminal activity. we in the union also say that we are all equal, even before the law.
the economic governance package responds in substance to the obvious economic and financial problems that have been plaguing the european union for some time. the economic crisis has put several euro area countries in serious long-term difficulties, and the rules of the stability pact have proved unable to protect the monetary union from the consequences of the dilettantism or irresponsibility of governments in some countries. while i do not think that the european commission should have more powers than it has so far, i accept that the european monetary union needs to establish a more precise mechanism for mutual control of budgetary policy. the irresponsibility or adventurism of any member of the monetary union is also being paid for by others, and so the road to transparency and to clarification of the rules of budgetary rules has become indispensable and leads to the prevention of long-term problems in our countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. it is important that the eu responds to the crisis not only by putting an end to the most acute problems, but also by preparing more fundamental reforms of the economic governance. several points in the reports presented are in the right direction, but they also have a number of shortcomings. the proposals refer to the imposition of sanctions, fines for non-compliance with recommendations or the automatic application of these measures so that they are not subject to political negotiation. it's all right. i cannot help feeling that sanctions are tailored to those countries which are currently in a bad situation. and it seems to assume that they can make a bad situation better by themselves and that they can make their situation better by themselves by taking 'disciplined' action. but that's a mistake. even before the crisis, europe was in a dynamic state, with the strong eurozone states cementing their competitive edge. in germany, for example, wage dumping has also helped the core countries to strengthen their export positions and the periphery to become uncompetitive outlets for their products and capital. the crisis was the famous final nail in the coffin for them. this is not a situation that can be overcome by strong will or by one's own decision. the situation of macroeconomic imbalances, especially in the countries with a common currency, can only be resolved by a consensual review of the previous model of economic development. the solution is not just cuts and budgetary discipline, but a policy of targeted development and promotion of the competitiveness of europe's periphery.
in writing. i don't believe that governments or officials can manage the economy. but at the same time, i understand that we have to look at the causes of the financial problems of greece and other eu countries and find ways to avoid them in the future. we are balancing this at the border of democracy, because we are restricting the right of citizens to decide on their state budget, that is, on the priorities of state policy. but solidarity is only possible if responsible management is the rule for all. we're getting close to the crossroads. one path leads to a slowing down of european integration, perhaps to disintegration. the second aims at tax harmonization, the end of national budgets and a federal superstate. but then let's also talk about a single system of healthcare, social security and pensions across the eu. this, and not empty phrases about unity, is the argument in the debate on european federation.
the management of radioactive waste is rightly closely followed by the general public and it is therefore good that the european commission has decided to legislate comprehensively on this issue by clearly defining the duties and responsibilities of all the actors involved in this procedure. it is good that the proposed directive also emphasises the improvement of the quality of supervision and control, but in particular the increase in the transparency of these processes, including public participation. the important open question, in my view, is to ensure that sufficient financial resources are allocated to cover the costs necessary for decommissioning nuclear reactors and the subsequent management of the radioactive waste generated. the proposed system of monitoring the amount of financial reserves by an independent body can, if well organised, create the assumption that a nuclear installation will accumulate sufficient resources during its operation to also refinance its ecological liquidation, and this should be our aim.
i am very pleased that we are moving forward in the field of spent fuel and radioactive waste management, setting out specific requirements to ensure that member states establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and develop effective national programmes from its establishment to its storage. throughout the system, it is crucial that the rules incorporate the principles of transparency, supervision and control. i also welcome the possibility of deep geological deposition, including the principle of reversibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not only a matter of environmental protection, but also of the protection of the environment.
in writing. other radioactive waste is generated throughout the european union, whether it is isotopes used for medical, industrial, agricultural, research or even educational purposes. however, the most common source of spent fuel is nuclear power plants. and we're currently using two technologies to address these: we recycle them or we permanently store them. based on their radioactivity, wastes are classified into three groups: low, medium and high activity. their classification also determines whether they are permanently deposited in geological storage facilities close to the surface or in deep geological storage facilities. however, the ultimate responsibility for spent fuel and radioactive waste lies with the member states. however, most member states have still not taken their most important decisions on spent fuel cells. unfortunately, very few places have a well-organized disposal program. we need continued political commitment to the long-term management of spent fuel and radioactive waste in a way that can be carried out with the highest safety standards. in order to protect the public, member states should adopt high national standards for nuclear safety. they should also establish a system defining the powers and responsibilities of the competent public bodies for the management of radioactive waste. adequate information should also be provided to citizens, as it is very important that the public has sufficient knowledge of the events taking place around them.
the sunday off should become part of the european standard in the field of labour law. this was agreed by representatives of trade unions, civil society, christian communities and churches who launched the european sunday alliance in brussels this week. a sunday off is important for decent working conditions, but it also creates a space for building family relationships, especially between parents and children. i am glad that i was at the birth of this initiative, as well as two civil society associations from slovakia the multi-family club and the sunday alliance. in its revision of the working time directive, the commission should take into account the views of hundreds of organisations from across europe united in a newly formed alliance, as such a large community cannot be overlooked in the legislative process.
two weeks ago in strasbourg, there was an emotional discussion about the hungarian constitution. the venice commission's statements are also available today. therefore, i would like to draw attention once again to the problematic wording of the hungarian constitution, especially in part d, where it speaks of hungary's responsibility for all hungarians, of the united hungarian nation, of collective rights, of the creation of collective self-governments abroad on an ethnic basis. the venice commission stressed the individual nature of human rights, as the framework convention for the protection of national minorities does not provide for any collective rights of minorities. the venice commission has challenged the principle of democracy by adopting a constitutional law for cultural, religious, ethical, social, economic and financial policies. i expect a swift response from the european union institutions to the venice commission's opinion in the hungarian constitution.
europe and the european union want to become the most competitive and the best, most advanced economy in the world. to achieve this, we need not only talk about funding and all the things that go with it, but we certainly need to invest more in education, science, research and innovation as the european union. the european commission has very recently published further research results on which member states are investing in this particular area. unfortunately, the countries were divided into 4 groups and my country, the slovak republic, has gotten a very unflattering place in the third group and invests only 0.48 percent of the original 2 percent that it committed to in europe 2020 to invest in science, education and research. i would therefore ask the european union, the european parliament, the commission, the council to do more to support the member states and to put more pressure on them to invest in this area, because it is only through the money we invest in research, innovation and education that we can really achieve the objectives of europe 2020 as well.
i would like to draw attention to the opinion of the committee on industry, which points out in point 3 that the current provisions of the european commission's climate change policy are leading to a shift of production away from europe, and i fear that the next increase in carbon dioxide emission prices could further accentuate this trend. at the same time, it points out that the current reduction in emissions in europe cannot be interpreted as a signal that the european union is on track to meet its emissions reduction target. rather, it should be seen as a consequence of the reduction in industrial production and the shifting of production away from europe, which is causing unemployment to rise in europe. i am therefore convinced that the way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is through a more rigorous promotion of innovation in new green technologies, so that we do not address the need to protect the atmosphere with administrative and financial instruments alone, but rather by supporting research and the application of new technologies to real life.
rapporteur. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank all the honourable members concerned for their interesting input, and especially the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. there were many inspiring and relevant ideas expressed in amendments, as well as in opinions, so i devoted special attention to creating a well-balanced approach that would capture as much of their essence and variety as possible. strategic reporting represents a new feature of cohesion policy, introduced in the current programming period 2007-2013. with the 2010 strategic report, parliament has the first occasion for analysis and evaluation of the outputs and results of cohesion policy implementation. this is also an opportunity to express parliament’s opinion on member states’ spending priorities, and to highlight areas where more efforts are needed, including the commission’s tackling of cohesion policy implementation and of the strategic reporting exercise itself. the 2010 strategic report focuses mainly on the implementation of programmes during the current programming period and the strategic reporting exercise. however, it also provides several valuable insights into the future of cohesion policy. firstly, regarding implementation of the programmes, the reported financial volume of the selected projects is eur 93.4 billion, representing more than 27% of available eu resources in the period in question. this can be considered quite reasonable, given not only the context of serious deterioration in the socio-economic situation in 2008-2009 due to the global crisis, but also the reform of the policy for the period 2007-2013. nevertheless, progress varies significantly between countries and across themes, with aggregate selection rates at about 40% in the case of nine member states and below 20% in four member states. striking economic, social and environmental disparities between the european regions clearly still exist. on the other hand, there was a more consistent average rate of project selection for the three objectives of convergence, regional competitiveness and employment and european territorial cooperation – and the same applies in the categories geared to the lisbon strategy objectives. the higher absorption rates for environmental programmes under the european territorial cooperation objective show the added value of cross-border and interregional cooperation – which should therefore be encouraged in future. on the other hand, more efforts are needed in certain areas, especially to improve implementation, avoid excessive delays, ensure tighter financial discipline and increase synergies with other eu policies. secondly, with regard to strategic reporting itself: this is a tool for reflecting strategically on, and discussing, the thematic dimension of cohesion policy on the basis of concrete evidence provided by member states. strategic reporting is also an evaluation of the ongoing process. it is carried out during the programming period in order to provide an overview of the member states’ progress in delivering on the eu’s goals, and a useful basis from which to improve performance. the report thus highlights many good practices capable of helping to enhance the quality of the reporting exercise, increasing ownership by stakeholders within the member states, and ultimately improving the efficiency of implementation. i will conclude by mentioning just one of the many good practices, namely the use of core indicators by all the member states.
rapporteur. − mr president, implementation of the programmes is a continuous and dynamic process that can be influenced by means of identifying frequent shortcomings in the whole process and areas where reforms are needed. in this context, strategic reporting, as a new instrument, increases accountability in delivering policy objectives and shows that cohesion policy should address all european regions and societal challenges in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the whole eu. cohesion policy relies upon good governance at european, national, regional and local level. smooth cooperation at all these levels is as highly desirable as the simplification of the whole process. the funds must not, of course, remain unused owing to superfluous bureaucracy or onerous rules and procedures. well-financed cohesion policy should be closer to eu citizens and should continue to address all european union regions and societal challenges, both helping the poorer to catch up and delivering smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the whole european union. the strategic report 2010 constitutes a strong incentive to improve the current implementation of the cohesion policy programmes. it also encourages the member states to correct delays in investing eu funds and to develop more efficient action plans to deliver the agreed results. therefore, i hope that the result of today’s vote on the strategic report 2010 will send that message to the member states and the commission.
in writing. cohesion policy after 2013 is to remain an important factor in the development of europe. it must guarantee the development of infrastructure and address disparities between regions. the financial crisis has deepened regional disparities. europe is facing high unemployment. at a time when there are more than 23 million unemployed, cohesion policy is one of the policies that can also contribute to job creation. there is probably no doubt among meps that cohesion policy will be needed beyond 2013. the question of the efficient use of funds, transparency and improvement of the whole process and return on investment is becoming topical. the successes of cohesion policy are measurable and are perceived and appreciated by eu citizens. it is therefore important that cohesion policy also has sufficient financial backing when adopting the future multiannual framework. investing in regional development is investing in the future and development of the eu.
the use of euro funds in new countries, including slovakia, is negatively affected by excessive complexity, excessive bureaucracy, unclear rules, but also hidden illicit interests. many who want to access money from european funds complain of a protracted bureaucratic torture with an uncertain end. the bureaucracy and many of the obstacles are not coming from brussels, but directly from the individual member states of the union. while european rules are being simplified under pressure from the european parliament, the rules introduced by individual member states often make the situation much more complicated. while the original european rules are relatively simple, national implementation complicates them. the rule is, the lower the organ, the more complicated the system gets. a major problem is that officials often do not help to draw on eu funds, but focus on checks that go far beyond what is required by law. the dog is therefore buried mainly in the member states of the european union.
the first decade of economic and monetary union has shown the need to improve the framework for economic governance. the new framework should be based on the enhanced responsibility of individual member states for commonly agreed rules and policies, as well as on a more robust framework for the supervision of national economic policies at union level. in particular, the experience of the last two years has confirmed that achieving strong competitiveness, sustainable economic growth and job availability requires sustainable public deficit and debt levels, reforms to address macroeconomic imbalances and a decisive eu strategy for growth and jobs. i have to admit some personal embarrassment over the introduction of administrative elements into economic mechanisms. on the other hand, experience so far shows that market mechanisms have failed to react in a timely and flexible manner to negative developments, with the consequence that the consequences of the financial crisis have turned into a debt crisis.
the current proposal by the european commission to reform the common agricultural policy is a cosmetic adjustment and not a reform aimed at improving the market or the competitiveness of european agricultural production. i also supported a number of the european parliament's conclusions and critical positions in this respect. i am firmly against the continuation of the historical approach in the subsidy system and i support the introduction of further objective criteria which will take account of the conditions for financing agriculture in the context of the enlarged european union of 27. i regard the so-called ceiling on subsidies as a complication which will not improve the conditions for farmers in the new member states. the common agricultural policy should be built on two pillars, the first pillar being fully financed by the european union. the second pillar must be geared to modernising agriculture, competitiveness and rural development with co-financing from national resources.
in writing. − in may 2011, the european council, together with the parliament, proposed the appointment of mario draghi as president of the european central bank for an eight-year term starting on 1 november 2011. the candidate was heard by the parliamentary committee on economic and monetary affairs and answered questions put by the committee members. he also commented on the greek debt problem and, inter alia, expressed the view that the ecb must not relax its efforts to maintain price stability. the committee subsequently recommended that draghi be appointed. since the candidate fulfils the requirements for the post of president of the ecb, i also express my support for his appointment to that post.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers who are feeling the effects of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. under the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, the fund may not exceed a maximum annual amount of eur 500 million. in april 2011, the commission adopted a proposal to mobilise the fund for belgium in order to support the re-entry of workers into the labour market following redundancies caused by the global financial and economic crisis. the commission's assessment was based on an assessment of the link between the redundancies and significant structural changes in the world trade pattern or the financial crisis. in accordance with the commission's assessment, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria for financial support and i consider that it is appropriate to support the application. the european parliament, the council and the commission, in a joint statement, back in 2008, confirmed the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure for decisions on the mobilisation of the fund, with due regard to the interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. − in the previous parliamentary term, the conference of presidents set up a working group on parliamentary reform to review the functioning of parliament and propose improvements. in the chapter on inter-committee cooperation, the working party proposed not only to strengthen the position of the associated committee involved in the procedure of the associated committees, but also to develop a new form of inter-committee cooperation, based on the new article 51. this proposal was justified by the fact that in specific cases where a legislative document of major importance does not fall clearly within the remit of a single committee, it can also be split between several committees. and a dispute over jurisdiction is to be resolved according to the principles of equality and cooperation. the members of the committees concerned shall then vote jointly on the proposed amendments to the legislative proposal. and the plenary is then presented with the more balanced report. i think that the interpretation of the rules of procedure or the guidelines is not sufficient to facilitate the implementation of the procedure. this is an important procedural question which must be decided by a majority vote in the plenary. it is desirable to achieve greater clarity of the provision and thus its applicability.
in writing. - adrian severin, former deputy prime minister of romania, was suspended from the social democratic party in his home country after the european parliament corruption scandal in which he was implicated came to light. he was also expelled from the party of socialists and democrats in the ep, but retains the mandate of mep as such. he and two other colleagues face corruption charges for allegedly agreeing to support the change in legislation in exchange for money. yet he himself claims that all the accusations are fabricated. i personally believe that the actions of the member of parliament are reprehensible and any instance of corruption or even a hint of it is absolutely unacceptable. it is desirable to combat similar situations by the legislative means available, and i am also convinced that if anyone commits such an offence, he should be held accountable for his actions. i also think it would be correct to give up your ep mandate in such cases.
in writing. −the bilateral fisheries agreement between the european union and the seychelles was signed in 1987 and the fisheries partnership agreement has been in force since 2006. the economy of seychelles is based mainly on tourism and fishing, with the fish-preserving industry accounting for 15% of gdp and employing 17% of the local working population. the commission, acting under the relevant council mandate and on behalf of the european union, negotiated with the republic of seychelles with a view to renewing the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles. the agreement is mutually beneficial for both the eu and seychelles, and has created 2 900 jobs in seychelles and 760 jobs in europe in fisheries-related jobs. the agreement provides for a qualitative improvement in the multiannual sectoral programme to promote responsible and sustainable fishing in seychelles' waters and also includes a suspension clause in the protocol, which allows the agreement to be suspended if one of the parties proves that there has been a violation of human rights. the agreement contributes significantly to the stabilisation of the european market, the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the rational use of fishery resources in the seychelles' fishing zone. it is therefore appropriate to approve the draft new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the seychelles.
in writing. − the negotiation and conclusion of fisheries partnership agreements responds to the general objective of preserving and protecting the activities of the european union fishing fleet, including the fishing fleet in remote areas, and developing relations in the spirit of partnership and cooperation with third countries in order to enhance the sustainable use of fisheries resources outside eu waters, taking into account environmental, social and economic issues. to this end, the european council adopted a regulation in july 2007 on the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement between the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe and the european community. the fisheries agreement with são tomé and príncipe not only responds to the needs of the european fleet, but can also contribute to supporting the viability of the eu tuna fishing sector in the atlantic ocean. the fisheries of são tomé and príncipe are mainly concentrated on coastal resources, with about 15% of the active population still dependent on fishing for their livelihood. the proposal in question is in the interests of both parties and therefore it is not appropriate to approve it.
in writing. − the council decision submitted to the european parliament under the assent procedure constitutes the legal instrument for the conclusion of a protocol between the european union and the principality of andorra extending the scope of the agreement on customs security measures. the agreement served as the basis for a customs union between the two parties. the community customs code can in principle be applied to trade with all non-member countries, but it allows the application of other rules in cases where international agreements provide for specific security measures. the protocol is intended to ensure that trade between the two parties involved is conducted without complications and at a high level of customs security and to include a set of rules to ensure that the agreement remains consistent with the eu acquis. i therefore believe that it is appropriate for parliament to give its consent to the agreement. at the same time, however, although relations between the eu and the principality of andorra have developed, they are fragmented, with significant parts of the internal market acquis not incorporated into andorran law and thus not applicable. it is therefore necessary to analyse as soon as possible the possibilities and ways of possible gradual integration into the internal market.
in writing. − the recommendation concerns the security agreement signed on behalf of the european community in may 2009. canada has been duly considered as a priority for the conclusion of an aviation safety agreement to complement the air transport agreement, as both europe and canada are home to world-leading aircraft, engine and avionics manufacturers. as with the similar aviation safety agreement with the united states, the main objective was to minimise the duplication of assessments, tests and inspections and to allow the eu and canada to rely on each other's certification systems. the agreement thus broadly follows the structure of existing bilateral aviation safety agreements concluded between the member states and canada. it shall impose obligations and establish methods of cooperation, be based on mutual trust in each other's systems and on the comparison of regulatory differences. european and canadian companies will save millions of euros a year through shorter, simpler and less costly product approval procedures and mutual recognition of certification findings. it will also benefit airlines and also represent a significant step forward in terms of establishing international standards in the field of civil aviation safety. i therefore believe that it is appropriate for parliament to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement, as this will also make both the canadian and european markets more competitive and also more secure.
in writing. − the implementation reports analyse the implementation of eu legislation in national law and its enforcement in the member states. in the case of cohesion policy, the legislative framework consists of directly applicable regulations. the commission report entitled 'cohesion policy: strategic report 2010 on the implementation of the 2007-2013 programmes' thus analyses whether member states have properly applied the legislation and how member states have understood and followed the community strategic guidelines when implementing national strategic reference frameworks and operational programmes. cohesion policy is proving to be important as it makes a significant contribution to improving the socio-economic environment. member states are making progress towards achieving its objectives, as evidenced by the facts and figures presented in the national reports. however, sound financial discipline and transparency in the allocation of funds are, of course, essential prerequisites for the achievement of the overall objectives of cohesion policy. strategic reporting as a new tool can make a significant contribution to increasing accountability in meeting policy objectives in this respect. similarly, steps to simplify the management and implementation of cohesion policy remain highly desirable and justified in order to achieve the policy's objectives and thus contribute to european solidarity.
in writing. − the report addresses several aspects of the urban dimension of cohesion policy which the committee on regional development considers to be key or problematic for the future cohesion policy, which is to become a full-fledged and effective policy for eu cities. europe is characterised by territorial diversity and polycentric development, with few large cities within a relatively dense urban network. a strengthened urban agenda requires the development and qualitative modernisation of infrastructure and services in european cities. it is desirable that future actions are closely linked to the overall eu priorities. although european cities are centres of economic activity, innovation and employment, they face a number of challenges that require an individual approach to address them, taking into account local needs. european regional and cohesion policy addresses this issue. the problems encountered need to be addressed in an integrated manner at eu, national and regional level and funding options coordinated in a way that covers a wide range of specific needs.
in writing. − the importance of territorial cooperation has increased considerably in recent years, due to the general regulation on the structural funds and the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it aims to remove physical, administrative and regulatory barriers and to mitigate the so-called border effect between territories and regions, so that they can respond as a whole to common challenges. the balance between the three basic components cross-border cooperation, transnational cooperation and interregional cooperation must be maintained, as each has its own justification and benefits. in order to fulfil the principle of territorial cohesion, it is necessary to better complement the objective of territorial cooperation and the common procedures. for its successful implementation and development, territorial cooperation as an important european idea should also be a kind of symbolic embodiment of the eu for all citizens.
in writing. − europe is in a post-crisis period and therefore even more efforts are needed to coordinate the activities of eu funds and programmes. as regards the european social fund, experience has shown that the financing of economic measures by the european regional development fund can be more effective if it is better coordinated and integrated with the activities carried out by the fund. it should be borne in mind that the good outcome of most programmes and measures depends to a large extent on a successful combination of several factors, the most important of which is human development. the current system of planning and implementation of programmes, which links policies relating to human resources development, business development, especially smes, or, for example, infrastructure development, serves as a tool for bringing the assisted regions closer together. each of these policies would achieve less on its own than all of them together currently do under an integrated system of programming and implementation. however, i believe that an even more extensive coordination mechanism is needed to help bring instruments, policies and stakeholders into line. it is desirable that carefully planned interventions and programmes are implemented and take into account the local specificities and comparative advantages or specificities of each region within an integrated approach based on local specificities.
in writing. − the efforts to correct macroeconomic imbalances are of paramount importance for the future of the euro area and the eu. parliament intends to improve the commission's proposals in order to create a strong and coherent framework for the coming decades, guaranteeing the compatibility of fiscal discipline with the objectives of economic growth and employment in the union and in all member states, since only the fulfilment of this condition will ensure the stability and sustainability of the union and the euro. strengthening the governance of economic affairs must be complemented appropriately by strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the decisions taken. this requires closer and earlier involvement of not only the relevant stakeholders but also, and in particular, of national parliaments and the european parliament in the whole process. it is appropriate that the stability and growth pact and the full economic governance framework appropriately support and are consistent with the union's strategies for growth and jobs, and also aim to enhance the competitiveness of all member states and social stability in all regions of the union. the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances is an effective tool to address weaknesses arising in particular from medium- and long-term structural trends, growing disparities within the union and the euro area, and the external implications of the policies of individual member states. it is desirable to improve the framework for economic governance and thus contribute to sustainable and balanced growth in the union as a whole.
in writing. − the global economic and financial crisis has revealed and deepened the need for closer coordination and better surveillance of economic policies in the economic and monetary union. the existing instruments and procedures for coordination and surveillance have enabled the eu to overcome a crisis that no member state could have overcome on its own. the european institutions and the member states are working together to recover from the crisis. however, this experience has revealed shortcomings and weaknesses in the current system of coordination and in the existing supervisory procedures. it is essential to strengthen the framework of economic and monetary union in order to consolidate macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances, which are prerequisites for sustained performance and employment growth. the various elements of economic policy coordination, including the surveillance of structural reforms, need to be integrated into a new surveillance cycle, the so-called european semester, which links the existing processes under the pact with the broad economic policy guidelines and ensures the simultaneous submission of stabilisation and convergence programmes and national reform programmes.
in writing. − the global economic and financial crisis has sharply reversed the favourable economic and financial conditions that prevailed until 2007, and has once again highlighted that the windfall accumulated in the good times has not been sufficiently used to create room for purposeful action in the bad times. the availability of fiscal data is essential for the proper functioning of the union budgetary surveillance framework. timely and reliable fiscal data are essential for proper and well-timed monitoring, which allows prompt action to be taken in the event of an adverse budgetary situation. transparency, which must include regular availability of the fiscal data, is an essential element in ensuring the quality of the data.
in writing. − in june 2010, the european council agreed that it was urgent to strengthen the coordination of our economic policies. this agreement included in particular the stability and growth pact (sgp) and budgetary surveillance. this was mainly to strengthen the preventive and corrective parts of the psr and to ensure that all member states had national budgetary rules and medium-term budgetary frameworks in line with the psr. member states whose currency is the euro have a particular interest in and responsibility for pursuing economic policies which promote the proper functioning of economic and monetary union and for seeking to prevent the application of policies which threaten it. sanctions for member states whose currency is the euro should provide incentives for prudent fiscal policy-making in the preventive part of the psr. at the same time, room for budgetary manoeuvre is also preserved, taking into account in particular the necessity for public investment.
in writing. − the recent economic and financial crisis has revealed and deepened the need for better coordination and increased surveillance of economic policies in the economic and monetary union. there are still gaps and weaknesses in the current system of coordination and in the existing supervisory procedures. the framework for economic and monetary union should therefore also be urgently strengthened in order to anchor macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances. most member states will necessarily need substantial consolidation to return to the downward trend in public debt. but the problems are all the more pressing as european societies and economies face the consequences of an ageing population, which may put even greater pressure on labour supply and public finance budgets. the coordination of the economic policies of the member states within the european union should include, in particular, the maintenance of a sustainable balance of payments and the need for public investment.
in writing. − the existence of large macroeconomic imbalances, including large and persistent differences in competitiveness trends, proved to be very damaging to the european union at the time of the crisis, especially with regard to the euro. the low cost of financing in the years before the crisis led to an improper allocation of resources, often allocated to less productive purposes, resulting in unsustainable consumption rates in some member states, the emergence of real estate bubbles and the accumulation of both external and internal debt. it is therefore important to establish a new structured procedure to prevent and remedy undesirable macroeconomic imbalances in all member states. the europe 2020 strategy sets out an ambitious and comprehensive strategy to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the european union economy. in the context of the crisis, this strategy identifies new areas to focus on in addressing europe's weaknesses in the surveillance of macro-financial and structural challenges. it calls for the development of a specific policy framework for the euro area to address wider macroeconomic imbalances, and in particular takes into account the deep economic and financial links within the euro area and their impact on the single currency. for this reason, i believe that a mechanism to monitor the sources of macroeconomic imbalances and to ensure that appropriate corrective measures are taken, where necessary, is essential, with a key focus on the link between preventive and corrective measures.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to ensure that consumers in all 27 eu member states can rely on a high level of consumer protection and that businesses of all sizes are able to supply goods and services to consumers in all 27 eu member states without unnecessary legal obstacles. the fragmentation of existing legislation is deterring consumers and businesses considering engaging in cross-border trade. consumers often complain that they cannot fully benefit from the single market, as traders with operations in another member state are often not prepared to comply with the different provisions applicable in that market when entering a new market, and moreover they also refuse to open up to possible legal action in another member state. the possible solution to the difficulties encountered appears to be to change the scope of the proposed directive, whereby, in addition to introducing a series of sectoral derogations, the scope of the directive would be significantly limited to off-premises contracts, which account for the largest proportion of cross-border transactions. i therefore consider it desirable to apply an approach aimed at full and comprehensive harmonisation limited to specific aspects of certain contracts while maintaining a high level of consumer protection.
in writing. − the directive in question concerns emissions from agricultural tractors and aims to amend directive 2000/25/ec by a quantitative amendment. this directive is urgent in that it affects a period which has already started on 1 january 2011 and is of great importance in view of its expected positive effects on the sector concerned. for each type of tractor, the directive sets a maximum emission level based on engine power and provides for a gradual reduction of emissions in several stages. the limits set for the stage that has just begun are much stricter than for the previous stage. in order to facilitate the transition between these stages, the directive introduces a system of flexibility allowing tractor manufacturers to place on the market a limited number of tractors with engines calibrated to the emission limits permitted during the previous stage. the commission's proposed directive is to be strongly welcomed. it takes account of environmental objectives that the eu has already agreed to. if the proposed amendment were not adopted, paradoxically we would end up with the exact opposite result, as many farmers could choose to keep their old polluting tractors, thus worsening the environment in europe. i therefore think it is desirable to support the amendment of the directive, since its adoption would achieve the objective of protecting the environment or, in the same way, promote the economic prospects of the industry concerned.
in writing. − the commission published a proposal for a directive last november setting out the eu legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. the proposal sets out specific requirements to ensure the safe handling and disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste from its generation to its storage. the principle of reversibility should be duly taken into account in the design and technical solution of the final disposal, in particular the deep geological disposal of spent fuel and highly radioactive waste. the aim is to enable potential access to and recovery of waste, whether for technical reasons or where advances in research make room for new longer-term technological solutions. however, the landfilling of waste must in all circumstances be carried out in accordance with internationally accepted safety standards, requirements and methodologies. ultimately, it is the responsibility of the member states to ensure the safe management of the spent fuel and radioactive waste they generate, including its safe storage. and while it is crucial that each member state develops its own national programme for spent fuel and radioactive waste, the alternative of finding common solutions to the issue may also be of interest. however, i am of the opinion that such a concept cannot, under any circumstances, be a substitute for encouraging member states to avoid their national obligations relating to the management of radioactive waste.
in writing. − reducing public investment by member states in selected areas is not the appropriate solution, as the eu and individual nation states' fight against the crisis through austerity is not the most progressive course. if we are really interested and intend to restore economic growth and employment, if we really want to implement the europe 2020 strategy, then the pace of growth of public investment must be radically accelerated. in addition to the europe 2020 strategy, this would be fully in line with the european semester. it is intended, inter alia, to ensure that the national budgets of the member states and the eu budget complement each other and act in synergy towards the achievement of those objectives. however, the commission is inclined to postpone the necessary big jump in terms of the joint financial effort for the period of the mff beyond 2013. such an approach will, however, seriously jeopardise the achievement of the main objectives by 2020. it is therefore desirable that the commission clearly reconsider this position.
in writing. − if you have the common agricultural policy (cap) faces a number of challenges - some specific to it, others unexpected - which require the eu to make a strategic decision on the long-term future of its agriculture and rural areas. to be effective, the cap's response to these challenges must be implemented within the framework of sound economic policies and sustainable public financing contributing to the achievement of the union's objectives. the future cap should remain a strong common policy that seeks to guarantee the long-term food security of european citizens, supports farming communities that supply european citizens with a wide range of quality and valuable food, and, last but not least, takes steps to help maintain viable rural communities for which agriculture is an important economic activity that creates local employment opportunities. the ongoing cap reform should therefore aim at a more sustainable, smarter and inclusive growth of europe's rural areas.
in writing. − the production of food is related to food safety and human health. it is good and right that the union does everything possible to ensure that the food that comes to the european market is of high quality. unfortunately, he sometimes uses questionable tools to do so. one of them is to set the maximum amount of aid per farm at eur 300 000. if quality is what we're after, then why do we differentiate between small and large manufacturers? unfortunately, none of the proposals that i and my colleagues put forward to remove this absurd condition from the text were accepted. this confirms once again that the common agricultural policy is not concerned with efficiency of production.
the unregulated derivatives trade was undoubtedly one of the factors that led to the financial crisis. i therefore consider the draft regulation to be crucial to preventing further crises. the lack of transparency of derivatives makes it impossible to identify the nature and extent of the risk and thus threatens financial stability and society as a whole. in this respect, the establishment of the european securities and markets authority and its role in assessing which derivatives are to be cleared is important. the functioning of this body should continue to be supported as it reduces systemic risk in the financial system, including the potential failure of highly connected counterparties to meet their payment obligations. however, in this context i would like to call on the commission, commissioner, to pay particular attention to the trading of financial institutions in commodity markets. the involvement of financiers is already apparently unhealthy and therefore the commission should consider whether participation in commodity exchanges should not be limited to physical traders.
like today's derivatives debate, the discussion of short selling and credit default swaps is important for preserving already fragile financial stability. it is essential that those provisions take the form of a regulation since they impose direct obligations on private parties to disclose information. transparency is necessary in particular for reasons of stability in financial markets and investor protection. another important point in this proposal is the proposal to ban so-called uncovered short selling. the current debt crisis shows how speculators, who do not even own the bonds of eurozone member states but only bet on them, can bring about the collapse of entire states. it is therefore important that only bondholders can engage in the insurance of securities through credit default swaps. the final important agenda of the text presented is to strengthen the powers of esma. i hope that the council will reconsider its position that it should be the finance ministers, and not esma, who decide in so-called exceptional situations, and that esma will be given priority in this regard.
i would also like to thank my colleague mr coelho because i think it is right that the sis ii, vis and eurodac systems should be covered by a single agency at european union level. however, the problem arises from the fact that some member states do not participate at all or only partially in the various schemes. and in this context, i would like to ask to what extent the proposed regulation will be binding on such member states, or what powers they will have when adopting legislation to establish the agency. despite the ambiguities, i believe the establishment of an agency is a desirable thing. the agency will play an important role. it should also be responsible for technical measures required by the tasks entrusted to it and which are not normative in nature. those obligations should be without prejudice to the normative tasks which are reserved to the commission alone. the agency should be an exclusively operational, not a political institution. its operation and decision-making must be in accordance with the legal basis adopted by the european parliament for each of the three databases.
the establishment of an agency to manage large-scale information systems within the area of freedom, security and justice has long been seen as a practical necessity and will thus be a further step towards smoother processing and use of information within the european union. of course, in carrying out its activities, the agency must meet the highest data protection standards of the european union. the collection of information should also not be accessible to member states not part of the system. as regards the choice of the seat of the agency, i fully support the choice of a single centralised seat, since such a solution is the least costly and will also facilitate the cooperation of the various components of the agency. in conclusion, i am pleased that the european parliament has had the opportunity to play a significant and direct part in the establishment of this agency, and i congratulate my colleague mr coelho.
for the s&d group. in may and november last year, parliament made clear in its resolutions what it expected from the negotiations on access to personal data of passengers. the commission was to ensure that the agreements with australia, canada and the united states respected european union law on the protection of personal data. you were talking about the united states of america. if we look at the ten-year history of our negotiations, the us unilaterally imposes conditions on the european union, but when the eu makes an exceptional request, the us refuses even to consider adapting its data protection system. the commission's legal services' position on the eu-us agreement was unequivocal in may. the agreement in its current form is contrary to fundamental rights. and the commission? two days after this opinion was published, you sent us the unchanged text of this agreement. if it remains as it is, i believe that parliament will use its power to refuse to approve the agreement. commissioner, we want the agreement to be approved and we will be happy to approve it, but only if it respects european data protection standards, such as proportionality, purpose limitation, legal redress or the guarantee of independent review.
there is no doubt that a civilized society must effectively defend itself against the criminal activities of various terrorist groups. however, in the context of the upcoming agreement on the use and transfer of pnr data, some concerns need to be expressed as to the adequacy and proportionality of the provisions of that agreement, in particular in view of the european union's responsibility to protect the personal data of its citizens. according to the legal service's current expert opinion, the text of the agreement in the pipeline does not ensure adequate protection of the personal data of our citizens, nor the handling of personal data under european law. therefore, commissioner, please consider the scope and proportionality of the proposed commitments of the european union, so that we do not have to reject the proposed text of a serious intergovernmental agreement in parliament in the final approval.
community legislation on family law is a complex issue, whether it concerns the local jurisdiction of the competent courts or the law applicable in cases of crossborder marriages and the regulation of contact and childcare. however, it does not provide sufficient protection for the persons directly concerned, namely children. as a result, children are often used as a means of settling scores between former spouses or partners. following the letter of the law, there are situations where the courts of the member states allow the separation of the natural links between mother and child. i therefore call on the relevant institutions of the european union to align existing legislation to the greatest possible extent with the protection of the child's best interests, not just through vague escape clauses that are problematically applicable in practice, such as article 12 of the brussels ii regulation. the courts' kind and ethical approach in adjudicating such disputes, especially with regard to the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the child, is also important.
on 17 june, the venice commission adopted an opinion on the new hungarian constitution. this topic has also been the subject of extensive debate in the european parliament. i see this as a positive and i trust that the hungarian government and parliament will reflect on the ideas in this debate. from the point of view of the neighbourly relations between slovakia and hungary, it is good that the venice commission has commented on the parts of the constitution that also raised concerns in slovakia. in particular, the article according to which hungary is responsible for the fate of hungarians living abroad and is to promote the exercise of their individual and collective rights. the commission has made it clear that the responsibility for protecting minorities lies primarily with the home countries. the way in which hungary implements the constitution will be crucial. the preparation of framework and implementing laws will be an opportunity for hungary to remove the ambiguities and reduce the tensions that have arisen around this constitution. i wish our hungarian friends every success in this.
i would like to support the proposal in mrs rapti's report, which proposes to tackle the universal service and the emergency number 112 in a much more efficient way. in particular, efforts should be made to make this service truly available throughout the european union. furthermore, we should endeavour to be able to locate the place from which the call is made, if necessary, so that the caller can be given the fastest possible medical assistance if assistance is required. at the same time, we should be concerned to prevent this telephone line being used for jokes or other forms of abuse, so that it does not actually happen that someone in the headquarters where people who are under stress work has misused this telephone number to cause false alarms. furthermore, i think it is very important that we ensure multilingual communication, because when people move freely across europe, it is not always possible to communicate in their mother tongue at headquarters, but at least the basic and most widely used languages used in the european union should be commonly available at these headquarters. and in that regard, i would also like to draw attention to the availability of medical assistance.
i am aware that budget support to developing countries is an important contribution to improving the financial capacity of public expenditure in developing countries. on the other hand, we see in many countries a lack of government accountability for the management of the funds provided, so it is very important to consider sensitively whether a country is really capable of managing our budget support effectively and responsibly. that is why i regard the efforts of the rapporteur, mr charles goerens, to clarify the rules for granting european budget support as a meaningful effort to ensure a more efficient and rational use of european union funds, which i personally believe deserves our broad support.
the treaty of lisbon provides a specific legal basis for the development of the energy policy of the european union, which must be appropriately used to modernise, improve interconnection and adapt the union's energy infrastructure to meet the 2020 energy and climate targets. security of supply and strengthening solidarity between member states in the field of energy can, in my view, also be ensured through cohesion policy. in particular, european territorial cooperation provides new opportunities for cross-border cooperation, for example to link local and regional energy sources and large energy networks. the coordination of energy infrastructure projects at local, regional and european level is a prerequisite for ensuring proper network interconnection and maximising the efficiency of funding, whether from regional or european sources.
the european parliament has already adopted the energy policy concept of the european union and many of the approved measures of the european energy interconnection route are likely to be implemented beyond 2020. nevertheless, a look into the more distant future of the european union's energy infrastructure can certainly be useful. new technologies and new types of energy sources also bring new demands on energy distribution and current networks are not always able to transport new types of energy. therefore, a qualified expert view of the energy infrastructure technologies of the european union after 2020 can be a useful basis for the policy-making of the european institutions, as it will help to create a forecast of the financial capacities to provide the energy potential needed for the economic and economic growth of the european union, especially in the future. from that perspective, i think this concept can be interesting.
we don't care what our energy policy, our energy infrastructure, is going to be in the future. it is clear that competition is developing between some member states in the field of energy policy. this requires continuous improvement and modernisation of our infrastructure. we must try to keep national fragmentation to a minimum. particular attention should be paid to member states that rely on a single provider. i would like to highlight the vulnerability of the central european countries in terms of gas supply. in future, infrastructure development must take this into account to some extent to eliminate this. the north-south link is also showing positive results, which can certainly be considered as progress. we need to build networks that can work effectively, with particular regard to solidarity between member states. the question of savings and energy efficiency may also be key. the european union is particularly dependent on a few energy sources, and we must therefore manage our existing energy resources well. i think it is very important for europe to be able to create a common market, and this report can help us to do that. unfortunately, the gas infrastructure is not given enough space in the report. we need to put more emphasis on regional cooperation. in this context, appendix iv to the vidal quadras report can help us, which we have already adopted on the question of gas security.
the modernisation of european development policy must necessarily be based on an evaluation of the way in which european union development policy has operated in the past. i am convinced that the european union must do much more to promote the working and business habits of the people of developing countries, so that they gradually move from primitive, inefficient gainful activities, or sometimes from idleness due to the lack of job opportunities, to work that is necessary for society and that also provides a decent adequate income to those who carry it out. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that business rules in these countries are simple and tax systems are simple and fair. we must strive to teach the citizens of these countries, as they say, to fish, not to give them fish.
it is undeniable that the hungarian administration has made a reasonable effort to discharge its responsibilities as president of the european union, and for this we owe a great deal of thanks to all the hungarian officials involved. however, the daily work of the administrative apparatus was greatly disrupted by a number of dubious gestures and peculiar manifestations of power coming directly from budapest. first, at the instigation of the hungarian government, we had to wipe our dirty shoes in brussels with precious symbols and images of important hungarian personalities, whom we honor as much as the hungarian people. but then came the revised constitution, which was criticized by the venice commission, the council of europe and the european parliament after un secretary-general ban ki-moon. i don't know, viktor, why you only declared yourself the leader of all hungarians in the world and didn't allow all the brothers of attila's huns from nearby central asia, for example, the mongols or the tatars, to get hungarian passports. and maybe you don't have the constitutional right to impose capital punishment! the constitution is not perfect.
at the beginning of mr orbán's speech we heard that he highly appreciated cooperation with political parties, and then he corrected himself by saying that it was cooperation with the european people's party (epp), which is very interesting for me, because there is not just one political party, a political group, in this parliament, but there are several. mr president, all the presidencies have been affected by something, but i think you have been ahead of everyone by adopting your 'great' hungarian constitution, which has been criticised so many times, and when some colleagues here say that they do not know what the venice commission is, that they are not interested, i think it is a bit of ignorance on their part. what kind of example are you setting for future generations? building nationalism and saying that the european union is not as important as what happens in the nation states. i think that's not a very good example, and also, when we talk about future generations, you've made it one of your priorities to improve the status of young people. i'd be very interested to know what you did during your presidency, because i think that nothing, and also, when we talk about young people, in your own country does not exist...
i'd like to welcome the hungarian delegation, led by their prime minister. the hungarian presidency, which had an ambitious programme, certainly deserves thanks for the things mentioned here, whether it is the conclusion of the negotiations with croatia, the danube strategy or the roma strategy. i think that the plenary session of parliament should not be used to criticise the presidency during recess, but neither should the country holding the presidency of the union abuse its position. and in your case, mr. orbán, there is a precedent that we have not had here in the past. you, as the presidency, and more specifically as the prime minister of the country holding the presidency of the union, have often abused your position. the things that you've managed to accomplish in your agenda belong mainly to the ministry of foreign affairs of hungary and the administration that you had. but the unhappy start of the hungarian presidency...
in writing. mr orbán, mr barroso, ladies and gentlemen, the hungarian presidency has certainly succeeded in concluding accession negotiations with croatia, in reprimanding the rome strategy and in introducing the european budgetary semester. but frankly, it's not a special merit of mr. orbán, it's something that any country would routinely do. what mr orbán has really brought to european politics is confusion and uncertainty. the words about a brussels-like moscow dictate exactly match the views of the most hardline anti-europeans, and i am not even mentioning your other anti-european cries. mr. orbán, you are angry at the europeans because they don't listen to your hungarian nationalism, your expansionism towards your neighbors. on the contrary, europeans are an obstacle to your attempts to subjugate minorities in the territories of other states, to extend hungarian laws to neighboring states, europe is an obstacle to your attempts to gradually change borders. your presidency of the eu, in connection with the adoption of the new hungarian constitution, has only brought an attempt to destabilise central europe and an attempt to diminish the importance of the eu as a whole. only because of the selfish nationalist aims of fidesz's policy. this is unacceptable for us slovaks, as well as for true europeans.
the production of genetically modified food is a highly sensitive issue and one that is closely watched by the general public. the acceptance of genetically modified products in the food chain varies from one country to another and therefore the right of each country to decide for itself and to restrict the prohibition of gmos on its territory is fully legitimate. the principles defining the rules under which individual member states may restrict or prohibit the production of gmos on their territory, contained in mrs lepage's report, are a step forward in the search for a truly responsible way of deciding on this issue. indeed, to leave the right to authorise gmos at a central european level solely for the sake of protecting the single european market is, in my view, unsustainable. the commercial interests of producers must be responsibly directed and regulated so that our citizens do not lose confidence in our food policy.
the current cross-border cooperation in enforcing consumer protection legislation, and that is the key word, is unfortunately very frustrating, unattainable, rather abstract for many european citizens. the need to establish a genuinely effective legal enforcement mechanism would therefore clearly lead to an increase in european consumers' confidence in the internal market and, consequently, to a revival of cross-border trade. businesses, consumers and enforcement authorities need a clear legal framework and thus legal certainty in the cross-border enforcement of the consumer acquis. for this reason, i fully agree that cross-border enforcement of consumer interests should be incorporated at the forefront of the political agenda of the european union.
we voted on a directive which gives member states the possibility of restricting or banning genetically modified organisms. there are possible cumulative long-term effects, both direct and indirect, effects on human health, but also on the environment. as we know, there are three main reasons, three categories, when we evaluate genetically modified organisms. these are: environmental issues, but also issues of resistance to pesticides; secondly, there are socio-economic reasons, because we have the cost of decontamination; and then there is land planning and land management as such. safety risks must be assessed, as well as the rules for coexistence of different varieties. i am against such waste of land in the controversial effort to plant gmo organisms on large areas to produce so-called green diesel for motor vehicles. on the other hand, such practices directly raise the price of other foods and do not contribute much to the environment. and by the way, most citizens are against the planting of gmos in our soil, and i would rely on the european food safety agency to give expert opinions on this.
the hungarian constitution is a typical example of the european parliament not having to care about the constitution of any member state, but when we debated this, i have to say that the hungarian colleagues did an interesting thing, they made marriage a union between a man and a woman, they talk about respect for life from its birth to its natural death. on this point, i agree with what hungary as a sovereign country puts in its own constitution. but hungary is failing in other areas of politics, especially in the demographic area, needs hungarians from slovakia and romania, and still dreams of revising the treaty of trianon and promoting the nationalist dream of a great hungary. the new hungarian constitution has strong extraterritorial elements and aims to promote dual citizenship, the voting of hungarians from outside the borders in elections, it actually supports the application of the kosovo precedent with the possibility of violating the state and territorial integrity, for example, of the slovak republic, and this is anti-european and this is anti-slovak, and that is why i abstained on this matter.
the european project is possible because the member states have voluntarily relinquished part of their sovereignty to the european union. we must respect this voluntariness and the european institutions should not have a say on matters which are the responsibility of the nation states. the socialists do not want hungary to protect in its constitution the family founded by a man and a woman or the life of unborn children. tomorrow they may want slovakia to give up the legacy of saints cyril and methodius, for example, or to enshrine the right to euthanasia or some so-called new human rights in the constitution. some meps call on hungary to respect the territorial integrity of neighbouring states, although the hungarian constitution does not call it into question. each member state has the right to adopt the constitution which its citizens consider to be the best. the european court of justice, not the european parliament, decides whether a member state's laws are incompatible with european union law. that's why i didn't support the resolution.
the current threshold for receiving aid between the convergence and competitiveness objectives is clearly set at 75% of community gdp. i fully agree with the rapporteur that a new general category based on funding and based on gdp at 75% to 90% is contrary to the key philosophy of eu cohesion policy, which is to support the weakest regions through a horizontal approach. the introduction of a new category of regions does not entail any increase in resources, which could mean that the convergence regions with the most structural, economic and social problems would have to be reduced after 2013 in favour of the more developed regions, which would no longer be covered by the convergence objective according to the current criteria. this would negatively affect up to 50 regions with 72 million citizens and inequalities between regions could persist.
in writing. − british mep giles chichester takes over as vice-president of the european parliament, replacing outgoing colleague silvana koch-mehrin. giles chichester is a graduate of oxford university and has worked for the university of london press and hodder and stoughton ltd and several other companies in various positions and as director, general manager or ceo. he also served as chairman of the hammersmith conservative association and the conservative european electoral council for west london. he has also worked in many voluntary bodies, e.g. school boards, charities, clubs and is a fellow of the royal geographical society. based on the necessary qualifications and previous experience, i believe that he is a suitable candidate for the post of vice-president of the european parliament.
in writing. - mrs anni podimata, member of the european parliament, takes over as vice-president of the european parliament, replacing mr stavros lambrinidis in that post. he most recently served as greece's foreign minister, seeking to help the troubled country. anni podimata studied at the faculty of philosophy of the university of athens, worked as a correspondent and editor of foreign policy news in newspapers and a radio station. in 2000, she was awarded the greek-turkish friendship award by the turkish association of radio and television journalists for her contribution to the rapprochement of the two countries. i am convinced that my colleague has the necessary qualifications to hold the post of vice-president of the european parliament.
in writing. − the single air transport market in the european union has been legislated in such a way that the application of the rights established in air transport is primarily for the benefit of passengers. lower prices are available and more carriers are available than ever before. the eu has also taken steps to improve air safety, drawing up a list of airlines that have not proved safe and are banned or restricted within the union. it provides passengers with special rights in the event of their flights being disrupted in any way (delayed, cancelled) or multiple tickets being sold for one place. eu legislation assumes responsibility for loss, delay or damage to baggage. new rules have also been created to protect disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility from discrimination and to ensure that they receive the necessary assistance during the flight. for example, these legislative measures were also taken by the eu in an effort to ensure the fair treatment of air passengers.
in writing. − in 2002, the eu signed an association agreement with chile in the fields of politics, trade and cooperation. chile is a major reference point in the main economic and political changes that have taken place in latin america in recent years: stable economic growth stimulated by the price of raw materials, the rise to power of parties representing the popular strata in several states, the growing international role of latin american states, changes in the composition of regional groupings such as mercosur, projects to create large south american networks, projects aimed at approaching the south american community of nations, etc. there have also been major changes in relations with the eu, from the association agreement itself to the strong increase in european investment in chile.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers who are feeling the effects of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. in may 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of denmark in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. this is the fifth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 14 181 901 from the egf in favour of denmark. the aid concerns 1 356 redundant workers (of whom 950 are affected) from the odense steel shipyard, a shipbuilding company in the region of southern denmark. in accordance with the commission's assessment, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and the commission recommends to the budgetary authority to approve the applications. i consider it appropriate to ensure a rapid procedure for the adoption of decisions to mobilise the fund, with due regard to the interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. − if you have following the severe floods and landslides that affected europe in the summer/autumn of 2010, slovenia, croatia and the czech republic have requested financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund to be used to mitigate and remedy the damage caused. the total direct damage caused by these floods in all the countries concerned amounts to more than eur 700 billion. the commission proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 19,54 million. slovenia has requested assistance from the solidarity fund in relation to damage caused by floods caused by heavy rains which inundated 137 slovenian municipalities and caused extensive damage to infrastructure, businesses and private property. croatia requested assistance from the solidarity fund following heavy rains that lasted from 17 to 22 september 2010 and caused major flooding. the disaster caused significant damage to infrastructure, agriculture and private property. the czech republic requested assistance after unusually heavy rains in the north of the country caused flooding of rivers in early august 2010, forcing residents to leave their homes and causing damage to infrastructure, private dwellings, agriculture and businesses. after verifying that all applications fulfilled the eligibility criteria under regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, the commission proposed to mobilise the solidarity fund in order to mitigate the devastating effects of the natural disaster in those countries.
in writing. − if you have article 37 (1) of the financial regulation provides that the commission may present a draft amending budget in the event of 'unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseeable circumstances'. the fund is intended to repair infrastructure. as it is a refinancing instrument, it should not be used to offset private losses. slovenia, croatia and the czech republic have requested financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund following extensive flooding and heavy rainfall in those countries. the natural element has caused serious damage to infrastructure, agriculture and private property. the slovenian, czech and croatian authorities estimate that the direct damage amounted to eur 19 546 647. in the case of slovenia, the direct damage exceeded the normal threshold of 0,6% of gni for mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund and can be considered a major natural disaster. in the case of the czech republic and croatia, although direct losses did not exceed the normal threshold, a country affected by the same major natural disaster as a neighbouring country can exceptionally benefit from the eu solidarity fund. in view of its accession status, croatia is also eligible for assistance from the eu solidarity fund. the total amount of aid in the draft amending budget amounts to eur 19 546 647 for all three countries.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers who are feeling the effects of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. in may 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of denmark in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. this is the fourth request to be examined under the 2011 budget. this is the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 247 415 from the egf for the benefit of 1 650 workers (of whom 825 are covered by the aid) made redundant during the four-month reference period between 1 january and 30 april 2010 by the danish company lm glasfiber in the south of denmark (syddanmark). the commission's assessment was based on an assessment of the link between the redundancies and significant structural changes in the world trade pattern or the financial crisis, the unpredictable nature of the redundancies and also the demonstration of the number of redundancies. in accordance with the commission's assessment, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and the commission recommends to the budgetary authority to approve the applications. i also consider it desirable to ensure a rapid procedure for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund, with due regard to the interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. − in june 2009, the commission presented two legislative initiatives to establish an agency to manage large-scale information systems within the area of freedom, security and justice. the first initiative was a draft regulation on first pillar issues relating to sis, vis and eurodac, the second a draft decision on third pillar issues relating to these systems. however, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, these initiatives have become irrelevant, since, although the three pillars have been avoided, the proposal in question bears the hallmarks of a variable geometry, which is reflected in the various aspects of the area of freedom, security and justice in general and in the schengen area in particular. the legal framework of the schemes to be managed by the agency covers a diverse group of member states with different levels of participation (as regards the united kingdom, denmark and ireland) and associated third countries (norway, iceland, switzerland and, in the future, liechtenstein). the commission has carried out an impact assessment to determine what would be the best solution from a financial, operational and institutional perspective. the creation of a european agency seems to be the most appropriate solution, but it is important to stress that the objectives and tasks of the agency relate exclusively to the technical level of operational management. the agency shall not have the power to take political decisions, for example to establish new systems or to take decisions on the interoperability of systems.
in writing. − article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union authorises the european council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, to adopt measures in favour of the outermost regions, taking account of their economic and social situation. the existence of permanent handicaps such as insularity, great distance from major markets, small size, terrain, difficult climate and economic dependence on a small number of products seriously hampers the development of these regions and fully justifies the application of appropriate measures. this is the basis for the system which allows france to apply a different rate of tax called 'octroi de mer' in the four french overseas departments until 1 july 2014 to certain products produced in the overseas departments. this system is essential for the stability of the economies of the relevant outermost regions, as it allows the preservation of local production and employment. similarly, the revenues from the 'octroi de mer' allocated to the regions play an important role in supporting investment policies aimed at local development. i therefore believe that the exemption or reduction of the 'octroi de mer' granted to the french overseas departments should be maintained, and that it would be appropriate to consider maintaining those measures definitively, in order to avoid creating a situation of economic uncertainty in the outermost regions concerned every ten years.
in writing. − the report assesses recent developments in relation to the concept of universal service enshrined in the directive in question, as well as developments in the area of universal access to broadband, the coordination of access and its financing, taking into account the specific needs of vulnerable persons and consumers with disabilities. the report also focuses on the 112 emergency number, which was introduced to allow citizens to contact emergency services by telephone using the same number. eu rules require states to provide citizens with the possibility to connect to the public fixed telephone network and access public telephone services with functional internet access. all states are obliged to provide consumers with access to information services, directories and public telephone machines, as well as special measures in the event of disability. the single european emergency number 112 was introduced in 1991 following a directive of the eu council of ministers and is also addressed in the universal service directive. the need to raise awareness of the 112 number was also repeatedly emphasised and the poor quality of services provided to citizens through the 112 number was pointed out. i believe that it is desirable to give the number 112 more support in order to provide the greatest possible benefit to citizens, otherwise the number will lose its validity.
in writing. - written explanation of vote: universal service and emergency number 112, by mr rapti (a7-0220/2011) as the european union develops and individual obstacles to eu citizens' residence are removed, it is also necessary to ensure a single system for citizens and consumers living within the single market. the european emergency number 112 is clearly justified in this regard, as it has a high potential to save lives and protect eu citizens in general. it is therefore necessary to ensure access to this service for all social strata, including persons with disabilities (those with hearing or speech impairments, etc.) and other vulnerable groups. increasing awareness of the 112 emergency number and its smooth functioning throughout the union, including in the outermost regions, should therefore be an eu priority for the near future. for the reasons stated above, i support the rapporteur's position.
in writing. − if you have the retail and distribution sector is a pillar of the european economy. it is a dynamic market that employs almost 20 million people, generates 4.2% of eu gdp and represents 20% of smes in europe. retailers are also service providers, at the forefront of new ways of selling and offering easy access to labour markets. although the retail sector has fared relatively well during the crisis, trade in the eu is being complicated by growing economic nationalism. the real economy must be put back at the centre of the political agenda, and action must be taken to open up the freedom of movement and establishment across europe. these freedoms are based on transparent trade relations and sustainable consumption. all too often, new national barriers are being built to protect jobs and smes. trade barriers in europe should instead be removed in order to support jobs and smes. nevertheless, at this time of the public debt crisis, people's legitimate concerns about job losses and smes' concerns about lost business opportunities need to be taken seriously. it is appropriate to recognise the achievements, specific problems and challenges of the retail sector. i also believe that a comprehensive european action plan for retail is appropriate, setting out a policy framework with concrete proposals for pragmatic solutions to the outstanding problems.
in writing. − if you have the retail and distribution sector is the building block of the european economy. this dynamic sector employs almost 20 million people, generates 4.2% of eu gdp and represents 20% of smes in the european union. retailers are also service providers and offer easy access to labour markets. free and fair competition, freedom of contract and the prompt application of the relevant legislation are essential prerequisites for a functioning distribution market and must therefore be strictly and fully enforced by the commission together with the member states. in particular, in order to ensure the proper application of competition rules and to prevent phenomena related to market dominance, cartels and unfair competition between retailers in regional markets, it is necessary to strengthen local competition authorities and to ensure their cooperation with the european commission's directorate-general for competition. for the reasons stated above, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs anna maria corazza bildt.
in writing. − if you have article 37 of the financial regulation provides that the commission may present preliminary draft amending budgets where there are 'unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseeable circumstances'. paragraph 3 states that 'the budgetary authority shall discuss the requests, taking due account of their urgency'. the financial regulation provides that the balance of each financial year, whether surplus or deficit, is to be entered as revenue or expenditure in the budget for the following financial year by means of an amending budget to be submitted by the commission within 15 days of the provisional closure of the accounts. the budgetary inclusion of the surplus reduces the member states' overall contribution to the financing of the eu budget accordingly. this overall reduction for each member state will also be affected by the updated own resources forecast (traditional own resources, value added tax and gross national income), including the updated correction amount for the united kingdom. the commission will present in june, in a separate draft amending budget, updated forecasts which should lead to further changes in the level of contributions by country. amending budget no 3 is intended to incorporate into the budget the surplus from the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010 of eur 4 539 394 283. accordingly, the total contribution of the member states to the eu budget for 2011 will be reduced in this way.
in writing. − the legislative regulation amends the existing regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 (cpc regulation) on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws. the network established by this regulation shall monitor and enforce legislation to protect consumers' interests. the proposed amending regulation aims to update the content of the annex to reflect the latest developments in consumer protection legislation. given that the current results of cross-border cooperation in the enforcement of consumer protection laws are not satisfactory, it is necessary to take appropriate measures to remedy the situation. the scope of the regulation should be approached more comprehensively and in order to cover all eu legislation that affects the collective interests of consumers. i am of the opinion that the cross-border enforcement of consumer interests should be placed at the top of the political agenda. improved cooperation between national enforcement authorities should develop into a more effective remedy in the hands of european consumers and should encourage their confidence in the internal market.
in writing. − the commission intends to improve the supplementary supervision of financial entities in a financial conglomerate in two phases. in the first phase, the commission adopted a proposal for a directive amending the supplementary supervision directives, in the second phase it intends to start a more fundamental revision, in the context of developments in the field of supplementary supervision. this review is expected to take place by the end of 2011. the commission's proposal is intended to allow a 'quick fix' to a situation that became more problematic during the financial crisis but has been known for almost a decade. it is useful for supervisors to be able to supervise mixed financial holding companies in the same way as financial holding companies (in the banking sector) and insurance holding companies (in the insurance sector). while the current directive does not appear to prevent member states from adapting their legislation to make use of this power in relation to such mixed financial holding companies, european coordination is useful in making this option mandatory. as regards amendments, the directive strengthens cooperation between the various competent authorities, in particular with a view to developing convergence of supervisory practices, and clarifies terms and definitions.
in writing. − the issue of short selling and credit default swaps is important, particularly from the point of view of preserving financial stability. it is essential that those provisions take the form of a regulation. they impose direct disclosure obligations on private parties. they also delegate powers to the european securities and markets authority (esma). this regulation respects the fundamental rights and observes the principles recognised in particular by the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. transparency is necessary in particular for reasons of stability in financial markets and investor protection. the next item is the proposal to ban so-called uncovered short selling. the current debt crisis shows how speculators, who do not even own the bonds of eurozone member countries, but only bet on them, can bring about the collapse of entire states. it is therefore important that only bondholders can engage in the insurance of securities through credit default swaps. last but not least, it also strengthens the powers of the european securities and markets authority (esma). i strongly believe that it should be the finance ministers, not esma, who decide in so-called exceptional situations.
in writing. − the new legislation should strengthen the harmonisation and integration of the european single market, strengthen consumer protection and guarantee greater consumer and depositors' confidence, as well as financial stability. however, it is necessary to ensure that consumers are better protected through higher coverage. there is a need for greater consumer protection and stricter common rules, in particular as regards the financing of schemes at national level. investors should enjoy the same level of protection in all member states when making cross-border investments. at the same time, where an investment firm holds financial instruments on behalf of a consumer, investor protection should exist. it is also desirable to improve the single european market for financial services and to establish european harmonisation of investor compensation schemes in the union. this will enhance investor protection and contribute to a level playing field. there is a need for greater and better harmonisation of existing legislation in the eu. the internal market in financial services must be strengthened and a stronger european single market created. it is also appropriate to provide for long-term, sound financial principles for investor compensation schemes. contributions to schemes should function as mutual insurance mechanisms. it is necessary to apply a risk-based approach consistently and the calculation of contributions should be based on the potential risk of remuneration borne by the company.
in writing. − the directive of the european parliament and of the council of 12 march 2001 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms (gmos) and regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 march 2003 on genetically modified food and feed establish a very strict framework which, if properly applied, should allow for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. the directive does not allow gmos to be placed on the market without a separate environmental risk assessment. however, the requirements of the directive on risk assessment are not being met and these shortcomings in its implementation explain the negative attitude in several member states towards the cultivation of gmos on their territory. it should be recalled that the question of the cultivation and release of transgenic plants on the territory must be distinguished from the authorisation for placing on the market and consumption, the free movement of goods and products not covered by this text. in addition, the possible cultivation of gmos should not result in additional costs for conventional or organic farming. it is therefore necessary to provide that member states are obliged to take measures to prevent the presence of gmos in other products.
in writing. - on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, i would like to state unequivocally that we recognise the right of the member states of the european union to legislate on their own initiative and that we do not wish to criticise hungary, let alone the citizens of the republic of hungary. our comments and concerns are therefore not directed at criticising the republic of hungary and the hungarian people, but we are convinced that the protection of fundamental rights, civil liberties, our common european values, as well as peace, security and good coexistence all these values should be preserved. even if we abandon the almost monarchical idea in the spirit of which the preamble is written, the areas which we, unlike our colleagues in fidesz, take very seriously are, for example, the principle of adopting the constitution. it's not unusual for a democratic country to have a five-week review process. it's not unusual for the opposition not to be involved. the constitutional court's competence was limited, and the discriminatory nature of the proceedings in relation to members of sexual minorities, where the constitution does not explicitly prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, is also discriminatory. the european union and its mission is to live together as peoples, as states of the european union, in peace, cooperation and mutual respect. but it is hard to expect the countries directly affected to accept the revised hungarian constitution.
in writing. - europe's diversity is also reflected in cultural, political and legal terms. we don't have the same legal traditions, we have different legal systems living side by side. these are often the reasons why eu legislation is slow to develop. the sovereign right of member states to establish a basic law or to guarantee the rule of law by other legal means. no one is asking states that rely on anglo-saxon traditions to draw up a constitution, nor is the ombudsman system known in all member states. why should the european commission make an exception in the case of hungary and scrutinize the law that replaces the constitution of 1949, which was adopted during the years of communism and then amended many times, before it comes into force? the hungarian basic law draws on common european values and ensures the rule of law and democracy. the preamble of the basic law quotes the national anthem and at the same time commemorates the hungarians abroad and the nationalities living in the country. in addition to contributing to european unity, an article correctly provides for liability in relation to hungarians across the border. the peaceful coexistence of europe requires that the rights of minorities necessary for their survival be guaranteed, and supporting this is a natural commitment on the part of the motherland. at the same time, the rights of the hungarian nationalities to self-government and parliamentary cooperation are also laid down in the basic law. i must express my deep regret at the adoption of this resolution, which is the sad and unprecedented product of the political battles that lie behind the defence of european values.
in writing. − the threat posed to humanity by climate change is not diminishing, and global warming of 2°c is having an even more serious impact than originally thought. although extreme weather events cannot be clearly attributed to global warming, climate change is likely to increase the frequency and intensity of such events. however, the fact that the international community has failed to reach a comprehensive, binding international climate treaty in copenhagen does not mean that countries are not taking action. because european countries face crucial decisions to preserve their future prosperity and security. we can link the transition to an eu-wide greenhouse gas emissions reduction target that is in line with the eu's climate goals with a healthier economy, growth in green jobs and innovation. without significant reductions in the emission ceilings, the eu emissions trading system risks becoming unnecessary in stimulating investment in green technologies and innovation. it is therefore essential to make the necessary efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. because the benefits for european citizens would also be increased by improving air quality in europe and stimulating investment in the eu economy.
in writing. − european countries must make critical choices now if they are to safeguard their future prosperity and security. a move towards a national greenhouse gas emission reduction target that is also consistent with eu climate change objectives is needed. here, a healthier economy, more green jobs and more innovation should play the biggest role. in 2009, the european union already achieved 17.3% of its commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 20% in the europe 2020 strategy. a lot of people think that by 2020, we can change that commitment and maybe even increase it to 25 percent. however, i do not share this view, especially in view of the changes in eu nuclear energy policy since fukushima. it should be borne in mind that our initial proposals are based on an energy mix in which nuclear energy is an integral part of the programmes of several countries. if that changes, the overall 25% will be difficult to meet. in view of the above, i think it is important that our member states do not completely shut themselves off from the possibilities of zero-carbon nuclear energy. on the basis of the above, i did not vote for the amendments which aimed at the 25% increase, but i supported the report as a whole.
in writing. - cohesion policy is something without which the european union as we know it and want to know it would not exist. but this report does not quite understand cohesion. the report warns of the threat of the eu losing its demographic and economic importance by 2050. in the light of this 'threat', it concludes that 'if the european community of states is to assert itself in economic and political competition and if this relative loss of importance is not to be accompanied by a decline in the level of welfare, the community must stand together more strongly on important issues of future security'. i do not think that the community should stick together for these reasons the purpose of cohesion policy should not be to maintain the eu's global economic positions and compete with the rest of the world. the aim should be to build cohesion between nations and to build citizens' sense of identity with the eu. so that europeans can feel equal in their own country and in the eu. the eu's cohesion policy is a unique policy approach on a global scale which i believe needs to be promoted.
in writing. − budget support means the transfer of funds from an external financing agency to the national budget of a partner country, if that country fulfils the conditions for making a payment. the funds thus obtained shall form part of the partner country's overall resources and shall therefore be used in accordance with the partner country's public finance management system. although budget support has been granted for a longer period, this practice became widespread in the 1980s and 1990s, when the world bank and various bilateral cooperation groups began to provide budget support in the form of balance of payments assistance. the second wave of budget support introduced a new coordinated approach to general budget support in the period 2000-05. the aim of this form of budget support was to bring support to partner countries' policies and strategies, to develop concepts of accountability and enhanced partnership, to better harmonise procedures, modalities and disbursements of support between aid providers. however, in order to be eligible, countries must achieve a sufficient level of responsibility in the areas of poverty reduction, macroeconomic governance, public finance management and governance.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty has as a fundamental objective to promote the interconnection of energy networks. progress within the eu has not been easy, and there are many areas of friction between countries in energy policy, many national interests in the way, and fragmented markets. all obstacles can only be overcome with determination and energy policy. both of these elements are part of the energy 2020 communication, which calls for a radical change in the approach to be taken to extremely important issues such as energy infrastructure and networks, to be mobilised and supported in the name of a 'resource efficient europe'. i believe that the energy structures that are of particular importance to the eu's decades-long ambitions should be the focus of attention, namely the reduction of carbon, the guarantee of security of supply and price stability for consumers, and the creation of a single energy market that ensures access to affordable energy sources for businesses and citizens. solidarity between member states is also important in this respect, and it is impossible to speak of security without also mentioning solidarity within europe. it is time for europe to act as one and to set common short, medium and long-term energy policy objectives for the benefit of european citizens and businesses.
in writing. − social services of public interest (ssi) are among the services of general interest (sgi) and, according to prevailing interpretations, are sometimes incorrectly classified as 'economic services'. in addition to the features common to the ppas, the ppas and their users can be characterised by several specific features. in addition to health services, ssvz also includes services of general availability, both statutory and ancillary, provided directly to the person, which fulfil a preventive role as well as a social cohesion and inclusion role and which give substance to fundamental social rights. high-quality universal services such as health, education and childcare, and essential network services such as transport, energy supply and telecommunications, ensure a healthy, active, compact and inclusive society and are also important for a higher level of labour market participation and for the development of a competitive social market economy. public authorities participating in or authorising the provision of sst need a clear legal basis in this area. voluntary organisations and social economy enterprises with low resources and management structures that provide ssvzs may, in turn, be insolvent due to bureaucratic requirements. in my view, it would therefore be appropriate to design and develop a secure and flexible framework for ssm, using the tools at our disposal, in order to ensure that the rules designed to regulate commercial enterprises promote rather than hinder the union's social objectives.
in writing. − in order to strengthen the impact of eu development policy, the commission proposed three criteria for the selection of activities: (1) added value, (2) previous eu coordination and (3) potential impact on reforms and other sources of funding. parliament has always called for better coordination and therefore the efforts to develop country-specific eu strategy papers can only be supported. however, it should support the commission in all its efforts to be able to fully exercise its coordination role as provided for in the treaty of lisbon. coordination and harmonisation should be improved from the point of view of accountability. the integration of the erf into the eu budget would be a significant step towards achieving better coordination between the different instruments of eu development assistance. the focus on achieving a big impact must not lead to a cautious development policy that is focused only on 'light countries'. the decisive criterion must remain needs. eu development aid should continue to target the poorest countries and the poorest sections of society. i believe that a well-designed report is essential for a positive development impact and the eu has a strong track record of supporting political reforms alongside the implementation of its aid programmes. an approach to governance that emphasises human rights, democracy and the rule of law, the fight against corruption and the role of parliaments and civil society in holding governments accountable and evaluating development outcomes is important for this policy.
in writing. − the main purpose of development aid should be to help people in underdeveloped regions to help themselves. the report presented by mr kaczmarek analyses very carefully the various aspects of european development aid and proposes solutions that lead to greater efficiency of the aid provided. for solidarity among people does not mean blind giving. the giver bears a great responsibility. on the one hand, towards those who need it, development aid has a significant impact on market relations, the emergence of elites, the environment or culture in the recipient country. on the other hand, however, there is also the responsibility of the european union towards its citizens for the funds provided. no government or eu commission is doing its bit. it's money from public budgets, it's value created by people working. it's money they entrust to the state and expect to be used economically and with meaning. it is precisely this responsibility that mr kaczmarek's report draws from and expects from those who implement the union's development policy.
i would like to begin by welcoming the european commission's proposal to consider a modest reduction in the european union's administrative expenditure plans under the multiannual financial framework. i believe it's a gesture that our citizens can appreciate, especially now that the standard of living is not improving. the more problematic proposal seems to me to be the introduction of european taxes. the european union was created by the member states as an institution to which the associated states entrusted the exercise of a certain part of their own competences, in the belief that their exercise within that institution would be carried out more efficiently and more coordinated. the member states of the european union shall therefore provide the necessary financial resources from their budgets for the exercise of these powers. by controlling the funds allocated, the member states also regulate the activities of the european union, and i therefore understand those member state governments who wish to retain this mechanism of oversight of the activities of the institutions of the european union. i therefore think, mr barroso, that we should consider whether we are going to continue to irritate the founding fathers of the european union with such proposals.
in writing. the crisis has revealed structural problems faced by most eu member states. to overcome these challenges, investment is needed in priority areas such as education, research, innovation. adverse demographic trends that put pressure on social systems, climate change, energy supply, with the eu importing almost two thirds of its energy in 30 years at current rates, are areas where the eu can demonstrate its added value. the eu budget should ensure the highest level of european added value by pooling resources and achieving economies of scale and positive cross-border and spill-over effects. it must avoid duplication and overlap of expenditure between member states. the objective must always be to create more value than if the funding were provided by the member states individually. the european commission should examine all areas where funding from the common budget would be more efficient than if they were financed by the states from national budgets.
this is a typical example of how parliament can constructively take a stand on a subject that is understood by citizens in the individual member states. i'm very glad we agreed on the font size, the nutritional information. as a doctor, i very much support and welcome the fact that there will be allergens, but also those substances that cause various intolerances, and, of course, it's very good that someone will not be misled by the image of strawberries on the packaging, when, in fact, the product will contain only some essence or only some perfume that can not really replace the original food at all. it is excellent, and i am glad, commissioner, that you have spoken about other initiatives, such as colourants, going forward, alcohol content, that this will be included in future proposals to improve this very good initiative of mrs renate sommer. i want to thank her for her excellent work.
in writing. i personally consider the legislative proposals to be very significant and we have managed to incorporate some important changes. the establishment of a minimum font size is a boon not only for visually impaired citizens but also for normally sighted people who have not been able to read the fine print on the packaging. mandatory allergen labelling can even save lives. the proposal to make the first freezing of fish and meat compulsory and to indicate the country of origin is of great concern. especially after the recent epidemics and diseases in the eu, this can help consumers understand if they are risking a lot with this product. despite the unpopular proposal by the socialists for so-called traffic light labelling of the contents of livestock, i am glad that this proposal remains a voluntary option for those who want to use it. finally, i want to stress the need to educate consumers, because if they don't know what the information means, they can't manage it. we are all consumers. our mothers and our children. that's why we should know what we're eating.
mad cow disease and jakob-creutzfeldt disease are related to each other. if you haven't seen a man die of jacob-creutzfeldt's disease, then i can tell you as a doctor that it's something terrible. we find that there are fewer cases and the incidence in europe has decreased thanks to our measures. that is excellent, but i would like to point out to all of us here, but also to the commissioner, who is aware of this, and certainly to the council, the polish presidency, that just as we thought that tuberculosis had been eradicated in europe, we are seeing the opposite. today, it's a serious social and health risk. i would also like to add to what mrs grossetête said, that the ease of access to the use of animal meal for food could be the seed of the slow reappearance of the viruses and diseases we are discussing here today and, lastly, the dioxin question. it said, we need to do a lot more with this health issue.
for the efd group. the creation of an area of free movement throughout the european union also entails the need for an adequate mechanism to monitor compliance with road traffic rules by drivers who, due to unresolved issues of correct handling of the necessary information, have avoided the consequences of a traffic offence. efforts to legislate the necessary legislation have been hampered for a long time by the different approaches adopted by the member states to this problem, but it seems to me that considerable progress will be possible in addressing this problem. it is a pity that the agreement between the states on the unification of the rules on the prosecution and punishment of drivers was reached earlier, and the coordination and unification of traffic rules on the roads of the european union, which would make it easier for drivers to comply with the universal european road traffic rules, remains unforeseen. a driver who is allowed to drive at unlimited speed on a motorway in one country without any penalties must respect a much lower speed limit when driving on the same motorway in another country. the question is therefore, who and why sets such drastic speed limits or such markedly different traffic rules in different countries? we should be looking for an answer to that, too.
the fundamental duty of any state is to protect the lives of its citizens. i therefore consider it extremely important that we are able to sanction effectively and swiftly those who endanger the lives of others by their actions. statistics show that the number of drivers who exceed the speed limit and are not resident in a member state is relatively higher than those who are resident there. cross-border cooperation in this area is therefore of great importance. poor coordination in the interpretation of the consequences of road traffic offences between countries helps drivers who come from a member state other than the one in which they committed the offence. it also discriminates against drivers who commit an offence in their home country and who do not evade sanctions. the possibility of cross-border enforcement of sanctions for serious criminal offences, such as murder or robbery, is not as complicated as in the case of traffic offences. these offences also endanger people's lives and should therefore not be an exception.
for the efd group. the continuous improvement of civil aviation security measures provides better protection for passengers against the misuse of aircraft for terrorist purposes. the extension of detection methods to security scanners requires the amendment of the current regulations and the addition of this technology to the relevant lists. since october 2008, of course, nothing has changed on the technology of security scanners itself and the doubts about respect for privacy, human dignity and therefore human rights in the use of security scanners remain the same problem. although mr luis de grandes pascual considers that the commission's 2008 statement satisfactorily addressed parliament's well-founded doubts, i am not sure that we can deal with that assessment so simply. the new generation of security scanners may indeed be able to tackle the problems of respect for human dignity and privacy in a satisfactory way, but this will have to be convinced not only by the house of representatives but also by the general public, who will be forced to submit to daily scans during security inspections. i therefore take it as a matter of course that the scan records be immediately destroyed. the introduction of the liquid screening system, which will allow passengers to carry liquids, sprayers and gels after april 2013, will certainly be positive news for passengers. this will improve travel conditions, especially for families with children. it would therefore be good if any new legislative regulation on security checks also brought the greatest possible comfort to passengers, while, of course, maintaining the necessary vigilance and safety.
as we know, some member states have already introduced body scanners, mostly at the test level, but i therefore consider it very important that the european union not only starts to address this issue, but takes a united position. security scanners for the screening of persons or cargo are already in use by member states without any oversight or regulation by the european union. when introducing new technologies, it is important to remember that the new ones are meant to replace the old ones. since the new scanners will be able to detect and evaluate liquids, the previous limitations on liquids will be able to be removed. this rather strict prohibition raises a number of questions. the most basic definition of what is a liquid remains, because today, for example, we have among the prohibited substances various creams, aerosols or lubricants. but i think it is most important that the body scanners and the liquid ban be lifted, so that a common european approach is adopted for both.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. to think of the management of the economy and business as the exclusive privilege of men is long overdue. on the other hand, all those who think that anyone can be put on the board of directors or any other decision-making body on the basis of any positive measure or quota just because they are a woman, or because they do not understand what is at stake, or do not want to understand, or at best they are wrong. quotas or other positive measures would put those in a position as article 7 of the report stresses who have the right skills, are prepared and have only the discrimination to overcome. discrimination is not a disease that will go away on its own over time, it is a social problem that needs to be tackled positively. opponents of quotas often argue that positive measures are counterproductive. that is true, but quotas are only a temporary measure and are not permanent. the quantified targets of 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020 double the life of quotas and we need to see europe moving towards them, slowly but surely, even if social acceptance varies from one member state to another. positive measures, including quotas, are intended to eliminate indirect discrimination and are probably the only means of doing so. i thank the commissioner and mr kratsa for bringing this matter to the floor of parliament, because let us be honest, it takes a lot of courage today.
for the efd group. women's representation in business management is indeed a rare phenomenon. the traditional problems that complicate their careers are, i think, well known. shortly after obtaining vocational training, they go on maternity leave, first with their first child, then with others, and natural professional growth is interrupted. then you have to take care of sick children until they grow up. women are already well ahead of their male peers in returning from demanding family responsibilities to professional careers. i therefore think that more attention should be paid to measures to keep women in contact with their professional practice while caring for their families and young children and to facilitate their return to full professional life when the family no longer requires more care. further help in the ascension of women to socially significant positions can then be provided by quotas for their representation in managerial positions, as suggested in the report presented.
it is common knowledge that there are more women than men in the world. statistics also show that women outnumber men, even in higher education, yet their representation in senior management positions in medium and large companies is desperately low. but it is not just about fairness and gender equality at all levels at all costs, but also about the economic growth of the european union. some european countries have begun to introduce legally binding quotas and the results, although slow, are positive, and discussions are also under way in other countries. i support this initiative at european level and welcome the commission's initiative to present appropriate legislation as early as 2012. i also think that women need to be motivated and that appropriate legislative measures should be introduced to make it easier for them to reconcile professional and family life, for example in the area of childcare and so on. women need to be motivated, to be constantly encouraged to have high ambitions, to travel for work or study, and to pursue a career.
let me begin by wishing you, your government and your country, every success in the serious and responsible task of holding the presidency of the european union. you have already heard from my colleagues what the european parliament expects from you. and it's not going to be easy to meet all of those demands. i would simply like to draw your attention to two areas where poland has greater competence and the conditions for success than other member states. the first area is the european union's relations with ukraine. poland's traditionally good relations with its neighbours can help ukraine to become closer to european political culture and thus improve partnership with this important neighbour of the european union. i am convinced that both the citizens of ukraine and those of the european union will then be able to benefit from improved economic and political relations. the second area is the european agricultural policy, where the new member states are still somehow failing to achieve the same rights as the old member states. your country's rich experience of management in this area can also be useful for the whole of the european union. slovakia will help you with this.
i am very pleased that another central european country is taking over the presidency of the european union and i have to say that the programme you have presented is a truly pro-european programme and we thank you for it. we thank you as one of the most important european institutions, because we have not heard such positive pro-european words here for a long time, and it is very important that we really adopt european solutions at a time when europe is being plunged into various crises, including the so-called debt crisis. mr president, you will not have it easy, because you will encounter many national egoisms among your colleagues in the council, but if you really try to implement the programme you have presented to us here today, the european parliament, the responsible politicians in the european parliament, will stand behind you and will try to help you to implement all the good points you have put forward in your programme. for the slovak republic, i give you all the poles and poles a thumbs up and we're rooting for you.
in writing. the hungarian presidency has been very successful. he set realistic priorities and was able to achieve them. that is why expectations are high for poland today. i am glad that the opening of the polish presidency was energetic and full of optimism, because poland will have to come up with further proposals to achieve economic growth. i regret that i have not yet found among the priorities of the new presidency the policy of supporting the family, to which the hungarian presidency has devoted itself very energetically. i hope all the more that this theme will emerge in the elaboration of the economic priorities of the polish presidency. security not only economic but also energy and military security, including the improvement of the protection of the external borders of the schengen area, will also be an important theme of the coming period. this is followed by the continuation of the eu enlargement negotiations towards the balkans. poland also expressed its willingness to address the eastern partnership as one of its priorities, with a focus on the establishment of free trade zones, visa liberalisation and improving democracy in belarus. i wish the polish presidency success in implementing these ambitious plans.
in the context of the economic and social crisis, we are all feeling the growing need to make better use of funds, to ensure better links and synergies between the various union policies and, last but not least, to better align local, regional and national budgets with the budget of the european union. in this context, cohesion policy also plays an important role, which in my view must be closer to the citizens of the european union, as up to two thirds of public investment in europe currently remains below the national level. the strengthening of powers and the accompanying responsibilities of regional and local authorities open up the possibility of public investment being carried out at the most effective level of government. it is therefore essential to strengthen vertical cooperation between different branches of public administration in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. first of all, i'd like to say a big thank you for an absolutely key report. i would argue that it could be a historic breakthrough if there is enough political will to implement the recommendations. on the other hand, i wonder whether it was really necessary for this impulse to deepen the european project to come with the global crisis. all the measures would be better implemented in more peaceful times. but it is true that crises create opportunities, and i hope that this will be the case. in the present situation, the most pressing issue is the maintenance of the single currency. in this context, we cannot avoid a fundamental reform of the eu budget. more than three decades ago, it was clear that a monetary union needed a larger budget than the current eu. such a budget needs own resources and, in the long term, a serious application of budgetary policies at union level is to be expected. the report, of course, contains a number of other key steps that would, in the long run, prevent crises like the current one. measures to limit capital flows and emphasis on supporting the real economy are important. i see the emphasis on the role of the un as a positive thing the eu can be a valid part of the multilateral world. the common treasury, the european bonds, the european debt agency - these are all important proposals. simply put, what we need most now is political union, economic integration. we need more europe.
regulation and labelling of food is a step forward, but it is also a major intervention in the lives of consumers, producers and distributors. that is why the negotiations were long and complex and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs sommer, and the shadow rapporteurs for their patience and courtesy in seeking the final text. i am glad that a compromise has been found in the labelling of the energy value: per 100 ml or per 100 g and per serving on the front of the pack. we should provide the consumer with the necessary information, but labels would be complex and opaque to the detriment of consumers.
i will always fight against discrimination against women in employment in any position. that is why i supported mrs kratz's report. but the only thing we're going to get with the quotas is the creation of so-called women's management positions. the business of running a company is to make a profit, which pays taxes and employs people. i ask: does anyone really think that profitability depends on the gender of management? i've seen the working class emancipated by quotas. i believe that quotas are positive discrimination against women and women do not deserve any discrimination. maybe the process of changing the mindset of society will take longer, but it will be natural. that is why i did not support paragraphs 1, 2 and 16.
mrs. berès's report confirms we're approaching the crossroads. if we follow the path suggested in this report, in a few years' time the union will be transformed into a federation with all that goes with it: the government, the treasury and the federal tax. we do not have a mandate from our voters to create such a europe today, but i fear that the second way will bring about the collapse of the euro and the beginning of the end of european integration. we have to make a decision. i did not support the report because that's a decision that voters have to make. but those who want a federation and a common budget should finally start talking about equal pay, equal health care and equal pensions and a willingness to work together to close the gaps that exist here.
in writing. − if you have in accordance with the convention implementing the schengen agreement of 14 june 1985, the guide to travel documents entitling the holder to cross the external borders and bearing a visa has been adapted. however, these decisions cover the period of schengen cooperation at intergovernmental level and need to be adapted to the current eu institutional and legal framework. the purpose of the list of travel documents is twofold: on the one hand, it allows border control to verify whether a certain travel document has been recognised for the purpose of crossing the external borders, and on the other hand, it allows consular staff to verify whether member states recognise a certain travel document for the purpose of affixing a visa sticker. in this context, a measure seems necessary to ensure that the list of travel documents is kept up to date and that the fullest possible information is made available to the member states. in the interests of simplicity and efficiency, member states would be required to communicate their opinion on the recognition or non-recognition of those documents. the proposal as such should therefore represent an added value as one of the union acts, by offering certainty to the border guards who have the right to check travel documents at the external borders. the list of travel documents should therefore be legally binding, as well as being consistent with the competence of member states to recognise travel documents.
in writing. − by 2020, all europeans should have access to internet speeds of more than 30 megabits per second (mbps) and at least 50% of households in europe should have internet speeds of more than 100 mbps. this objective is part of the digital agenda for europe, the priority initiative of the europe 2020 strategy aimed at a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy. the digital agenda also confirmed the european council's objective of providing basic broadband to all europeans by 2013. to achieve these ambitious goals, a comprehensive policy based on the full range of technologies needs to be developed and progress made closely monitored. the objective of providing a fast and ultra-fast internet was highlighted because it will play a central role in the economic recovery and will be a platform to promote innovation throughout the economy, as was the case with electricity and transport in the past. the deployment of ultra-fast open and competitive networks will stimulate a positive cycle in the development of the digital economy, as it will allow the emergence and expansion of new services requiring broadband and for which citizens' demand will increase, resulting in increased broadband demand.
in writing. − the world around us has changed radically, thanks to rapid technological developments and globalisation, and new challenges have emerged in the area of personal data protection. technology today allows individuals to share information about their behaviour and preferences and, on an unprecedented scale, to make it public and globally available. social networking sites, with hundreds of millions of members scattered around the world, are among the most prominent. a recent study confirmed that data protection authorities, business associations and consumer organisations agree that online activities pose increased risks to privacy and personal data protection. at the same time, the ways in which personal data is collected are becoming more complex and more difficult to detect. the question is therefore whether existing eu data protection legislation can still respond fully and effectively to potential threats. despite the existence of a common eu legal framework on data protection, one of the main concerns of stakeholders is the lack of harmonisation of member states' legislation. i believe that it is desirable for the eu to develop a comprehensive and coherent approach to ensure that the fundamental right of individuals to data protection is fully respected, both within and outside the eu.
in writing. − nutrition labelling the following information is required for the labelling of the product: the recent white paper on a strategy to tackle health problems related to nutrition, overweight and obesity in europe highlighted the need for consumers to have access to clear, consistent and proven information. nutrition labelling is an established means of providing information to consumers to promote health-conscious food choices. there is a broad consensus that the effectiveness of nutrition labelling can be enhanced as a means of promoting consumers' ability to choose a balanced diet. several suggestions were made by interested parties in support of the inclusion of nutrition information on the front of packages. the labelling systems used differ in what may create barriers to trade. the proposal introduces certain general principles concerning the provision of food information and develops a management mechanism in the light of developments to enable consumers to make informed food choices. the mandatory requirements remain broadly the same, but the commission has the possibility to propose new requirements for specific issues. in order to take account of changes and developments in the field of food information, it is necessary to lay down provisions to empower the commission to amend the list of mandatory information by adding or removing data and to make certain data available by alternative means. consultation with stakeholders should allow for timely and well-targeted changes to food information requirements.
in writing. − the 2001 white paper on european transport policy sets an ambitious european union target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2010. and despite the declining number of road fatalities, the target set in the white paper is unfortunately not being achieved. the proposal was based on studies which showed that the proportion of accidents involving drivers in a non-resident country is disproportionately high, mainly due to speeding. penalties for offences committed in the territory of member states where drivers are not resident are generally not enforced, in particular for automatically registered offences. this relative impunity undermines the objectives set in the field of road safety and weakens the legality of these checks in the eyes of european citizens who might question them, given the need for equal access to all, regardless of whether they are resident in the country concerned. the commission aims to facilitate the enforcement of penalties for drivers who have committed offences of speeding, driving under the influence of alcohol, not wearing seatbelts or failing to stop at a red light in a foreign member state. the commission has deliberately decided to limit the scope of the directive to these four offences, which are the cause of the highest number of fatal accidents and are regarded as offences in all the member states of the european union.
in writing. − if you have article 312 tfeu provides that the council is to adopt a regulation on the multiannual financial framework after obtaining the consent of the ep. the article requires all three institutions to work together to find a solution throughout the process leading to the adoption of the financial framework. the ep made its position on the commission proposal clear in its may 2010 oral questions and in its resolution of 9/2010. the council adopted its proposal in 12/2010 and asked the ep to give its consent to this proposal on 18 january 2011 without initiating any negotiations with it with a view to reaching a common position. in its letter, the council points out that its proposal includes the introduction of a certain degree of flexibility in line with the wishes of the ep. this offer is not enough. the ep insisted on a higher degree of flexibility, given the higher needs and lower reserves and the increased use of the flexibility instruments provided for in the mid. however, none of his other requests for the 2011 budget were heard. it cannot therefore agree to this proposal for a council regulation laying down the multiannual financial framework for the years 2007 to 2013. after consulting its legal advisers, it considers that the present agreement continues to apply, with the exception of the provisions which have become obsolete with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − the negotiations on the budgetary framework have only just begun. the commission proposal does not, however, respect the wish of the member states that the european union should also be saving when it comes to austerity measures. instead, the commission came up with a trick shifting large packages of planned investments outside the eu budget. but this is an optical illusion, since in the end it all comes down to the taxpayer. a responsible businessman prepares a budget by first counting his income and then planning his expenses. sadly, officials and many politicians do just the opposite.
in writing. − if you have in the face of the current economic, social and environmental crisis, strong european leadership and enhanced cooperation at eu level are needed more than ever. the current approach to management remains unbalanced. it is necessary to strengthen the surveillance of economic policies and ensure effective compliance with fiscal consolidation. similarly, a solution to macro-financial imbalances should be sought through appropriate procedures. better coordination and harmonisation of tax policies is desirable, as is the pursuit of further measures that would lead to new revenues. it is important to look at long-term investments in order to maintain sustainable economic growth. in this respect too, the european funds are a proper and necessary part of a balanced and strengthened economy. i believe that the crisis should be used as an opportunity to transform society towards a highly efficient economy. to this end, too, a cohesion policy is needed to achieve the objectives set and the reforms planned for the coming period.
in writing. − tses are a group of diseases occurring in both humans and animals and are characterised by degeneration of brain tissue that takes on a sponge-like appearance and eventually causes death. in response to the bse epidemic in the eu, a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain spongiform encephalopathies (known as the tse regulation) was adopted. the regulation established for the first time a single legal basis for the control and prevention of tses and bse. that regulation consolidated all the transitional eu legislation in the field of tses. it has been amended several times since its introduction and certain additional measures have been amended with a view to further eradicating, controlling and monitoring tses. in addition, other measures contribute to the comprehensive safety and monitoring regime governing tses. i consider it essential that consumer protection, animal health and the eradication of tses should always be the main objectives and be of primary importance when considering possible changes to the applicable rules, and that the evolution of the tse group of diseases should continue to be closely monitored in the event of a recurrence of tses/bses. it is also necessary to strengthen research in those areas where knowledge is still incomplete. only in this way can reasoned policy decisions be taken in the future.
in writing. − in a democratic society, no form of terrorism can be justified and there is no reason to legitimise terrorism. the relevant democratic institutions therefore have an urgent duty to take all necessary measures to guarantee the security of citizens. decisions taken in the interest of safety often entail a loss of some freedoms and in any case cause discomfort, harassment and change in the usual rules of conduct. sadly, in the value hierarchy of modern societies, security is the value that needs to be protected, because it is not guaranteed. the safety of civil aviation is undoubtedly one of the most important issues for the european union. while the eu aviation security regulatory framework provides for a list of detection and other screening methods and technologies, it is necessary to amend the current legislation to include security scanners in that list. these appear to be the appropriate means of improving air safety and contribute to the effectiveness of security controls at eu airports. detection, intelligence and security services, exchange of police information and analysis of the human factor are essential elements that are part of the definition of aviation security and form a whole. it is essential to concentrate maximum efforts on the protection of democratic values and on the fight against terrorism, which threatens these values.
in writing. − this broad theme covers all issues related to women and the labour market, such as access to the labour market, equality and justice, reconciliation of work and family life, personal ambitions and cultural stereotypes. our aim should be to enable capable and qualified women to access positions that are currently difficult to access. the public hearing on this topic held in the european parliament in october 2010 was fruitful in many respects, raising and answering questions on a number of issues, and allowing in particular for discussion between women from the private sector as well as from the political scene, and also women from the various networks of women holding positions on the management boards of companies. the clear answer from this public hearing is that women's potential, their creative energy and their managerial talent, their entrepreneurial spirit and their good risk-taking must be developed. the representation of women in management positions in enterprises, in the management of enterprises, as well as in the various bodies that manage enterprises, is unfortunately low. given the high number of women with higher education, it is therefore necessary to reflect this in the high proportion of women in management positions. i believe that there is an urgent need to respond to prevent the loss of talent and human potential in the european union.
in writing. − while all the measures and initiatives related to the financial, economic and social crisis would be much better implemented in more peaceful times, it sometimes happens that crises open up opportunities and i hope that this will be the case here too. in the present situation, the most pressing issue is the maintenance of the single european currency. and in this context, we seem to be in for a major reform of the eu budget. more than three decades ago, it was clear that a monetary union needed a larger budget than the current eu. such a budget needs own resources and, in the long term, a serious application of budgetary policies at union level is to be expected. so this is one of the most critical requirements right now. however, measures to limit capital flows and an emphasis on supporting the real economy are important. i find it extremely positive that the role of the un is highlighted the eu can be a valid part of the multilateral world. the common treasury, the european bonds, the european debt agency - these are all very important proposals. we need political union and economic integration now more than ever.
mr president, the eu has shown clear support for all forms of uprising against all forms of undemocratic regimes, but our support has to be very tangible. all the people have to feel our assistance. yes, the eu imposed restrictive measures on persons in syria, but it did not go far enough. our policy in libya is crucial and effective, but we have to do more. allow me to mention only a few examples. we have to stop all supplies of military equipment to the undemocratic governments in the region. we have to change all instances where we use double standards. of course, we have to be very careful not to support the forces and movements with islamist ideology. as regards cooperation with turkey, turkey has shown its really effective support for democratic changes in the region. we have to appreciate not only the humanitarian assistance for the syrian refugees, but clear statements from turkey against mubarak, gaddafi, and now against the hardliners in syria. we have to involve turkey more. the palestinian-israeli peace process is a conceivable part of the regional solution. we have to have a united europe in position. calling for an urgent relaunch of negotiations is equally important, so as to avoid a european split on the un vote. i hope, baroness ashton, that you will be successful in this process.
although the democratic changes in the arab world came suddenly and unexpectedly, they have shown us that even for the citizens of arab states, democratic governance is an attractive model. the question is how to help our arab friends achieve this goal without much blood being shed on their journey to freedom. the current leaders of libya and syria in particular seem to be reluctant to discuss political changes in their countries. however, i am convinced that we must seek to bring about change primarily through peaceful means: negotiations, international political or economic pressure. leaving poorly armed and unorganized civilians to fight against a regular, well-trained army is not a prudent solution. and to intervene militarily from outside without the approval of the un security council is also unacceptable. i therefore believe that all effective diplomatic means must be used to bring the hostile parties to dialogue on the future of their countries, in cooperation with the other world powers, the united states of america, russia and china. and then to help them to endure in this way, in the interest of peaceful life in their countries.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all, sincere thanks to ms de keyser for all her good work in preparing this report. i am glad that we are having this discussion at a time of democratisation changes in many places in the world. democracy is europe’s core value. yet its role in the eu’s external relations has been somewhat less tangible. the revolutions in north africa and the middle east give us a chance to learn and design new policies more focused on democracy support. to be honest, it is not only the southern neighbourhood where democracy needs to be supported. our efforts have a much broader reach. we should not forget our eastern neighbours. eu democracy support should develop through a new range of instruments, built on the eu’s past experience, including that of central europe. the benefits could be clear and straightforward. the latest reforms at institutional and policy level raised expectations, especially in partner countries where the lack of a more coordinated and coherent eu voice is often perceived as a serious shortcoming. this is the reason why the report calls for the shift of paradigm in eu democratisation in external policy. finally, in the report we are calling for the establishment of the european endowment for democracy. this could be a good and useful tool. it is necessary to be more flexible in the allocation of external funds and respond more rapidly to democratisation trends in third countries. however, if the endowment is to bring added value, it should not overlap with existing instruments. all in all, i believe that the report will be a good base for reflection on changes which should take place in order to have a more effective democratisation policy in the eu’s external relations.
i would like to begin by saying that the orientation of european external policy towards democratisation is an absolutely understandable and legitimate objective. but in terms of implementation, it will not be easy to fulfill in today's complex world. in her opening speech, mrs de keyser said that we had been promoting stability rather than democratisation. but let's ask ourselves: can democracy be born in a disordered political environment? if so, it's only on the rare occasion. therefore, i think that the path towards promoting stability was a good choice, but it is important that after the stabilisation of the political environment, the next step should also be taken - support for democratisation, if this has not already been done in the stabilisation process. the european foreign policy should therefore not stop after the political environment has stabilised, but continue with the further objective of democratizing society. i am convinced that the instruments currently used by the european union to support european policy can also be very effective in achieving this objective. we just have to learn to use them better and more consistently so that they do the functions that we need them to do.
(he drew up a question to mr ungureanu by raising his blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)). mr. colleague, i listened to your speech with interest and i would like to ask you how much time you spent in russia, when you presented yourself as such a profound expert on this country, because i think that in order to assess this whole broad problem, which is of course not easy, it is necessary to spend some time in russia and get to know not only the lives in the centres but also the lives in the regions, and perhaps it would be good if you told us.
russia is one of the most important partners of the european union, a partner whose economic strength, its growing economic potential, will soon increasingly influence life in the european space. so it's certainly important to us that the political power in this country reflects the plurality of opinions of the citizens of this country. on the other hand, to expect any world power, whether it be the united states, russia or china, to let us dictate to them what rules they should apply in the organization of their parliamentary elections, is, i think, a manifestation of our overconfidence. like the authors of this resolution, i sincerely hope that not only the russian state duma elections in december, but all elections held in russia, will be fair, transparent and just, but i am not sure that we should communicate in this way with a partner with whom we claim to have good relations. i am convinced that the high commissioner, baroness ashton, has enough authority in moscow to interpret our concerns in a more diplomatic, sensitive way.
on the one hand, commissioner šefčovič has made it very clear that the free movement of persons is a great achievement which we should not be prepared to lose, but in this sense the commission's proposal on the management of immigration flows, namely the part which allows the reintroduction of border controls within the union, albeit only exceptionally and temporarily, is incomprehensible. however, the conditions for the temporary and exceptional introduction of internal border controls in the event of a serious threat to public policy or internal security are clearly laid down in the regulation of the schengen code, namely articles 23, 24 and 25. nor should the current problems with the influx of immigrants serve as a reason for further derogations, as they would represent a significant threat to the schengen idea, and the fact that such a measure cannot be decided by a separate ....
we can't just make the rules our own. the authorisation by the european union of customs controls at the borders of denmark with germany and sweden may have a direct effect on the whole schengen system. if each country claimed to have introduced similar controls, the schengen agreement on free movement would lose its meaning. it is therefore necessary to introduce equivalent rules on migration applicable to all countries of the european union and to define precisely the circumstances in which the 'schengen' borders can be closed. i'm afraid denmark has opened pandora's box. on the one hand, there are member states concerned about the increase in illegal migration and international crime following the conflict in africa, and on the other hand, there are migrants whose rights to free movement we can consider to be at risk. however, i propose that we deal with the current problem in the present, and thus the european union still lacks the readiness to deal with the crisis situations and their consequences that many member states are currently facing.
the idea of the schengen area is not only the idea of free movement within that area but also the idea of a single political entity bounded by the schengen borders. therefore, efforts to change the established rules need to be assessed very sensitively and to consider what the real objective of the proposed changes should be. the current rules also allow individual states to take exceptional measures in the event of an emergency and to restrict free movement within the internal space for a limited period of time. i am convinced that only by evaluating the rules in force in the long term can we make serious suggestions for improving the system. i am therefore not sure that the first problem requires a change in the rules of the mechanism that has been operating so far. in any event, the changes in the rules will affect all 27 countries of the union and it will certainly not be easy to find the necessary consistency. it is possible, however, that the commission, in agreement with the council, will find a new rule which will improve the current mechanism, but which may only open up a new range of new problems.
we all want to do this, and we sincerely hope that the living conditions and the standard of living of our citizens will be such that they will not be dependent on humanitarian aid for people in need. however, experience shows that the programme of food distribution to the most deprived persons in the union is still justified. the almost 13 million people in the union who rely on this programme are unfortunately a reality and a bad badge of our work. i agree with those colleagues who say that such a food distribution programme should not be part of the european union's policy in the long term and that we should rather strive to integrate the socially excluded into standard employment programmes or standard social protection systems. however, in the current situation, we cannot possibly afford to reduce the food distribution programme to the most deprived people in the union without adequate compensation. it is therefore logical that a replacement financial programme will need to be prepared for the transitional period of the 2012-2013 budget period.
the european parliament is a key element of the constitutional order of the european union. in addition to the lengthy negotiations on the revision of the treaty, the union has made substantial progress in creating the basic conditions for uniform elections, despite the lack of a uniform electoral law. as regards the problems encountered by previous rapporteurs, some were successfully resolved. there is a category of issues that may have seemed problematic at the beginning of the process of introducing direct elections, but as my predecessor said, we need to focus on progress, and therefore many of them have already been resolved. the importance and powers of parliament have grown considerably since 1979, including the treaty of lisbon, which considerably extended our powers. parliament therefore needs and deserves a new electoral system and internal organisation that correspond to its new tasks. last but not least, it is also about making the elections to the european parliament easier, more understandable and more attractive for the citizens of the member states.
since its inception, the european union has been developing and changing dynamically. with its enlargement, the mechanisms for representing the citizens of the member states in the political bodies of the union must also be revised. it is therefore right that we are already dealing with the reform of the 2014 european elections. mr duff's report makes a number of proposals for amendments which are acceptable. however, pragmatic changes are eluding the proposal to create 25 additional mandates for parliament elected on a separate pan-european ticket. i agree with mr duff that the body of the european parliament could be divided into two separate chambers. the chamber of union citizens, created under the current rules, would be based in brussels and would carry out the current tasks of parliament. a chamber of state representatives, with not 25, but x times as many seats as there are in the union of states, say 3 times 27 today, would be based in strasbourg and would act as a mediator and coordinator in disputes between the supreme institutions of the european union. the chamber of representatives of states could also act as a brake on the majoritarianism of small states in the majority decision-making of the chamber of citizens of the union. such a change could be beneficial.
the election of 25 additional members to the european parliament over the fixed number of 751 would, in my view, undermine the gradual proportional representation of the citizens of each member state enshrined in the treaty on european union. there is a risk that notorious personalities, singers of all kinds and fast-talking politicians could be candidates for meps in at least one third of the member states, regardless of the number of meps allocated to the member state concerned. in concrete cases, it would most likely be well-known personalities from the large member states that already set the direction of the european union. of course, awareness of political and other prominent figures from large member states is incomparably higher in smaller countries than, conversely, is the general interest in personalities from smaller countries in larger countries. and i say that with a grain of salt. i'm almost finished, madam president. smaller states would once again be left on the back foot. i believe that the elections to the european parliament so far have fully represented the legitimate citizens of all the member states.
in writing. we always remind ourselves that the member should be so close to his constituent that he knows his views and knows his needs. and we want to implant him with a member of parliament who not only misses his country during the election period, but who in real life doesn't get to know his problems, and if he does, it's through an interpreter. suddenly someone comes to their senses and it's point 2b and they propose: in addition, 25 more representatives within the constituency, which will be the whole territory of the eu. if we stand by what is written in the eu treaty on proportionality, then let us not put forward demands that today have no basis in the political system and that violate the principle of proportionality. i do not want to see reconstructions for candidates who can no longer get on the ballot for political parties or who are no longer accepted by the people of their own country and are looking for a way around article 14 (2) of the eu treaty. it is unthinkable for a citizen to vote for someone he not only does not know, but is not even from his country. i am for the ever-valid democratic principle of being as close to your constituents as possible in reality and not in imagination.
population ageing is one of the major challenges facing the european union today, but if we manage it well, it can also open up new opportunities. we can now live longer and healthier lives than ever before. this naturally brings with it a number of challenges, particularly in the areas of employment and social protection. if we can ensure that people aged 50 and over can stay in the labour market for longer, europe can have the opportunity to accelerate prosperity and to make effective use of social cohesion across generations. the lisbon treaty also addresses the return of the older generation to the labour market. in many cases, these people are more experienced, more humble, and often more precise. the increase in life expectancy is a remarkable social achievement and one of the successes of our time. that's why we need to ensure that these people can continue to be active participants in society and remain healthy and independent for as long as possible. but to do that, governments and the private sector will have to take steps to address the aging of our population. i believe that the approach proposed by the commission and this report, which i also voted in favour of, offer an excellent opportunity to achieve this.
in writing. − population ageing is one of the eu's most important challenges, but also one of its greatest opportunities. the increase in life expectancy associated with ageing is undoubtedly an extraordinary social advance and achievement of our time, as europeans today live longer and healthier lives than ever before. however, this success also presents a number of challenges for european society, particularly in the fields of employment and social protection. in addition, old age is often associated with disease and addiction, and older people may feel excluded from employment, as well as from family and society. ageing can therefore be seen as a challenge in its own way, and the possibilities for meeting it lie, among other things, in ensuring that the population over 50 stays longer in the labour market, continues to participate actively in society and remains in good health and independent for as long as possible. the european union and its member states have done a lot in the past to increase the average life expectancy of its citizens. economic prosperity, social security, and peace have also improved the quality of life. the european year 2012 should also be a milestone in the continuation of the development of europe that has begun, putting the human being at the centre of political, social and economic life and transforming european society into a society for all ages.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the significant demographic changes over the past decades, creating a sustainable culture of lifelong active ageing is becoming a political priority. europe's population approaching 60 and older is not only growing rapidly, but is also generally healthier and better educated than previous generations. therefore, opportunities for active participation in work, social and family life should be created for them. such activities will not only be socially beneficial but will also help the elderly to maintain their mental and physical health. the isolation of the elderly is undesirable both for society and for the individuals concerned. in this regard, local and regional authorities have a leading role to play, which should take into account the high potential, skills and knowledge of older people living in the region and give them the opportunity to engage in local and regional projects and initiatives that enable them to contribute to the development of their community. in the context of intergenerational solidarity, it is therefore important to promote the active inclusion of older people in society without discrimination, their healthy ageing and to promote their vitality and dignity through high-quality healthcare, long-term care and social services. i therefore welcome the report by mr martin kastreller on the occasion of the european year of active ageing and i vote in favour of it.
in writing. − the demographic crisis in europe is deepening, to which member states are gradually responding by raising the retirement age. the european year of active ageing will not in fact last for one year, but for many years. the report by mr kastler highlights the need to highlight the importance of intergenerational solidarity in this situation, which is crucial to successfully tackling the challenge of the increasing proportion of older people in the total population. member states and the eu have already failed badly on the issue of family policy. as a result of this failure, we must now seriously address the issues of aging. another failure could be fatal for europe. declaring 2012 the year of active ageing is a great opportunity to highlight the real values: human dignity and solidarity between generations. however, it is also necessary to start talking about the profound differences in social and health care for people of retirement age in the different eu member states and how to eliminate these differences while respecting the competences of the member states.
in writing. − the arab spring has changed the political landscape of the arab world and north africa. the european parliament has adopted several resolutions in this context in recent months, and several parliamentary delegations have also visited the region. however, violent crackdowns on peaceful demonstrators and military operations against the population continue in syria. thousands of syrian citizens have been internally displaced or have fled to turkey or other neighbouring countries. a humanitarian crisis has emerged in the area, threatening the stability of the region. the syrian authorities were reiteratedly called upon to engage in national dialogue and meaningful political reforms. but after months of unrest and violence, the situation is still very fragile. in general, a change in the political situation in the country is necessary, but keeping in mind and advocating above all the best interests of the people.
in writing. − the european commission has adopted several communications on human rights and democratisation over the last decade. the aim is not to rewrite the basic policy, but rather to adjust it in order to move closer to the external relations objectives set for the coming years. changes in the external environment, as well as internal reforms, require a renewed focus on human rights and democratic strategies. the foundations of the european union are clear. it seeks to uphold the universality and indivisibility of human rights civil, political, economic, social and cultural and also upholds the principle that the human rights of women and girls are an integral and indivisible part of universal human rights. the protection of human rights, together with the promotion of pluralistic democracy and the rule of law, and the fight against poverty, are among the main and fundamental objectives of the european union. such efforts should also be supported by global actors such as multinational corporations to contribute to the enhancement of respect for human rights worldwide, and to use their often considerable influence in developing countries to support them before they weaken their own efforts to achieve sustainable development.
in writing. − political stability, economic development and democracy are not three independent foreign policy themes. it's three connected vessels. if we take away from one, it's reflected in the other two. events in algeria, egypt, morocco, libya, syria and the arabian peninsula have set the mirror for the double-track foreign policy of european states and the eu itself. in her report, mrs de keyser points to the persistent inconsistency in the way europe applies its values in relation to third countries. in january this year, the eu's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy said that every cooperation agreement the eu concludes with another country includes a clause requiring respect for human rights. however, the report submitted points out that the mere existence of this contractual term is not sufficient if the penalties for its infringement are applied in practice only exceptionally. if the eu is to truly aspire to become a major global player, a superpower, then it must be consistent in its values. the basis for long-term and stable relations between states is trust and reliability. the eu must do more to not only speak up for its values, but also to promote them, without exception. that's the only way she'll be trusted by her partners.
in writing. − relations between the european union and russia have been constantly evolving over the past decades, resulting in a deep and complex interconnectedness that will undoubtedly increase in the future. the conclusion of the eu-russian federation strategic partnership agreement remains key to the further development and intensification of cooperation between the two partners. however, concerns clearly persist regarding developments in the russian federation with regard to the observance and protection of human rights and respect for commonly agreed democratic principles, rules and practices. the russian federation is a full member of the council of europe, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and the united nations and has therefore committed itself to respecting the principles of democracy and human rights promoted by these organisations. the difficulties faced by political parties in registering for elections are also of concern and are actually distorting political competition in russia, limiting the choices available to voters and demonstrating that there are still real obstacles to political pluralism in the country. it is the basis of democracy and modern society and the source of political legitimacy. it is desirable that the elections to the state duma also be based on the application of the electoral rules established by the council of europe and the osce, and i think it would therefore be correct for the russian authorities to allow the osce/council of europe to establish a long-term election observation mission and to work closely with it from the very beginning.
in writing. − last year in particular was marked by a mass exodus of people from north african countries, and the schengen system has recently come under pressure as some member states have considered reintroducing national border controls in the face of sudden flows of migrants. the conditions for the temporary and exceptional introduction of internal border controls in the event of a serious threat to public policy or internal security are clearly laid down in the schengen borders code regulation. however, the current problems with the influx of immigrants should not serve as a reason for further derogations, as this would represent a significant threat to the schengen idea. the free movement of persons within the schengen area is one of the greatest achievements of european integration. schengen has a positive impact on the lives of hundreds of thousands of eu citizens by enabling them to cross borders comfortably and by bringing about economic recovery. free movement is a fundamental right and a pillar of eu citizenship, and i therefore believe that the union's role, and therefore the commission's, should be to plan how to distribute the migratory pressures from the mediterranean among the member states, how to effectively manage the integration of immigrants.
in writing. − article 9 of protocol (no 1) provides that the organisation and promotion of effective and regular interparliamentary cooperation must be defined jointly by the european parliament and the national parliaments. the european parliament shall co-decide with the council on the eu budget for external action, including the budget for civilian missions under the cfsp and the csdp and for administrative costs related to eu military coordination. in accordance with the treaty, the european parliament is regularly consulted on the main aspects and basic options of the cfsp and its consent is essential for the transformation of eu strategies into legislation and for the conclusion of international agreements, including those relating mainly to the cfsp. it is clear that the european parliament is a source of democratic legitimacy in the areas of the cfsp and the csdp over which it exercises political control. i am also convinced that strengthening interparliamentary cooperation in the cfsp and csdp will enhance parliamentary influence on the political decisions of the eu and its states, given the european parliament's responsibility for the common policies of the union, including the cfsp/csdp, and the prerogatives of all national parliaments in deciding on security and defence policy at national level. parliament should be represented in any new form of interparliamentary cooperation to an extent that reflects the scope and importance of its role in the control of the cfsp/cfsp, recognises the common european nature of those policies and meets the need to express its political and geographical pluralism.
in writing. − approximately 43 million people in the european union are at risk of food shortages and it is estimated that the economic and financial crisis, as well as the sharp rise in prices, are putting more and more people at risk of food shortages. some 80 million people in the union are at risk of poverty and the crisis could increase this number. the eu's food for the most deprived programme, established in 1987 under the common agricultural policy, currently provides food aid to 13 million people affected by poverty in 19 member states and includes a distribution chain of 240 food banks and charities. it is undeniable that the abrupt termination of an existing and functioning aid programme without prior notification or preparation would have a significant impact on the most vulnerable eu citizens. however, as the eu intervention stocks have been significantly reduced, a solution to the current stalemate on this issue needs to be found at council level, and also the most appropriate legal basis for the next financial planning period. the right to food is one of the fundamental human rights and can only be ensured if all people have continuous physical, social and economically sustainable access to adequate, safe and nutritious food that meets their nutritional needs and priorities for an active and healthy life.
in writing. − the european parliament, elected by direct universal suffrage, is a key element of the constitutional order of the european union. in addition to the lengthy negotiations on the revision of the eu treaty, substantial progress has been made in creating the basic conditions for uniform elections to the european parliament, despite the lack of a uniform electoral law. as regards the problems encountered by previous rapporteurs on this issue, some have been successfully resolved. there is another category of issues that might have seemed problematic at the beginning of the process of introducing direct elections, but that experience has made less so. these include the eligibility of independent candidates and the control of electoral expenditure. parliament's importance and powers have grown considerably since 1979. the treaty of lisbon, which finally came into force, also considerably extended the powers of meps. parliament therefore needs and deserves an electoral system and internal organisation that are appropriate to its new tasks. it is clear that a large number of important electoral issues remain, which, if effectively resolved, would contribute to making the next parliamentary elections more uniform than in the past and should be beneficial in terms of coherence, legitimacy, efficiency and pluralism. perhaps it is time to think more seriously about finding a mathematical formula for the redistribution of seats that is durable, transparent and politically neutral.
in writing. − the european union has been actively involved in mine action, particularly since the 1995 joint action, and has adopted the binding objective of completely banning and eliminating anti-personnel landmines worldwide. it is a leading promoter and contributor to mine action, and this theme is one of its priorities in the areas of human rights, humanitarian and development aid. mine action includes the search, detection, marking and disposal of anti-personnel landmines and other explosive remnants of war, including abandoned arsenal, unexploded ordnance, remnants of cluster munitions and improvised explosive devices, as well as mine risk education, assistance to victims, stockpile disposal and support to promote the general extension of relevant international conventions and treaties to end the production, use and trafficking of anti-personnel landmines. in addition to causing loss of life, especially among the civilian population, they represent a serious obstacle to the post-conflict reconstruction of the affected countries and can serve as a raw material for the manufacture of improvised explosive devices. it is gratifying to note that 156 countries have already signed and ratified the mine ban treaty, including 25 eu member states.
as the democratic republic of congo has shortcomings in its judicial system affecting the atrocities of individual armed groups, i welcome the extension of the un mandate until 30 june 2012, but at the same time i would like to appeal to the special representative of the un secretary-general in the democratic republic of congo to implement the mandate consistently, so that it does not happen that, next to the mission camp, the rebels rape women, abuse children and entire families, as happened in luwunga. we're making very strict resolutions and measures to address injustice elsewhere in the world and sending in entire armies, and we're more benign to genocide in africa. how else can we describe the events in the democratic republic of congo between 1998 and 2003, where 5.5 million people died, the same number as the population of my country, slovakia, and 2 million were driven from their homes. let us also contribute by adopting resolutions more rigorously to the peaceful lives of women and children in this war-torn african country.
in writing. international trade cannot be seen as either positive or negative in itself. it's a tool whose results depend on its use. i am of the opinion that international trade should not be just a profit-making tool and a platform for a competitive battle of nations, where the stronger often wins. it should also be a tool for development. i will therefore hope that at the wto ministerial conference in december, this view will be promoted not only by representatives of the so-called developing economies, but also by representatives of the eu. development must come to the center of the development program from dauhy (dda). in this respect, i appreciate that similar requests have been received in the ep's draft resolution from the international trade committee. in addition to putting development at the centre of the doha development agenda, the resolution also calls for sustainable development. i agree that it is important to improve access to green goods and technologies and therefore to reduce or remove customs and non-customs barriers to green goods and services. if international trade develops in this direction - that is, towards fair and sustainable development - it will certainly have fewer critics.
for the efd group mr president, commissioner, as mr bütikofer's report shows, european industry is finding it increasingly difficult to obtain the raw materials needed for innovative production. the strong industrial growth in third world countries, especially in asia and south america, is increasing the demand for raw materials, precious metals or rare earth elements, driving up their prices and making them less available to european industry. however, europe has long been a major source of waste, often containing rare metals or hard-to-find materials from abroad. so, in addition to looking for new sources of raw materials, whether through trade diplomacy or cooperation in the discovery of new mining capacities, i think we need to focus more on exploiting the potential of waste recycling. indeed, recyclable industrial waste should no longer be considered as just worthless pollution. on the contrary, it is a potential new source of raw materials that will make it possible to reduce, at least in part, the european union's dependence on countries supplying its missing raw materials.
the sharply increasing global demand for raw materials carries with it various economic risks. from price volatility to competitiveness. it is therefore here that the ecological and economic efficiency of the handling and use of the european raw material base must be emphasised. the whole economic chain must be geared towards the efficient use of the raw material base, because no raw material is here forever. this is why high environmental efficiency should be emphasised, so that resources are recycled several times. i want to emphasize the importance of recycling. i therefore support the call on the commission to turn a challenge into an opportunity and to develop a long-term european raw materials roadmap to 2050.
in europe, citizens of eu member states have enjoyed additional eu rights since the maastricht treaty. that is why it was shocking when slovakia passed a law last year that says that if you take on the citizenship of another country, even an eu country, you lose your slovak citizenship. they do not even try to hide that this is primarily aimed at slovak hungarians, to prevent them from acquiring hungarian citizenship, which is a legal possibility. nationalist-driven political forces ignore that this may infringe eu-wide community rights and make it difficult to promote european mobility. in the eu, it may seem natural to express one's relationship with another member state through citizenship, in addition to the rights conferred by eu citizenship. often, there is a moral motivation beyond mere legal relations. a minority eu citizen may have an emotional desire to be connected to two member states at the same time in order to satisfy his or her needs to preserve his or her identity. in my view, the eu cannot stand by and watch this kind of curtailment of the european integration process.
the eu seems to be catching up with the eurosceptics. however, i believe that the economic problems and the stability of the euro are more of a challenge. a challenge to all of us to have the courage to take bold steps towards european integration. let us not be intimidated by the talk of a superstate or a brussels dictate. the eu's close integration is a response to the intra-european war that lasted throughout the first half of the 20th century. the balkan wars of the 1990s showed where europe would be without the eu. the lisbon treaty is a major step forward. the dynamics of world politics and economic globalisation are so acute that they place new demands on the eu. citizens expect us to give the world rational impulses, stable economic development and support for democracy and liberation movements. the european union must be equipped with all the instruments of executive power, capable of acting promptly and effectively.
first of all, i think it is necessary to confirm the statement made in paragraph 12 of the report that the threat of terrorism in the european union has multiple dimensions and that many of the dangers also stem from separatist sentiments incited by separatist movements. in the future internal security strategy of the european union, we must therefore distinguish between international, religiously motivated terrorism and territorial, separatist-oriented terrorism with multiple overlapping foci also within the european union. by better coordinating national counter-terrorism policies with union policy, we need to ensure that counter-terrorism measures and instruments are not duplicated unnecessarily, but that there are also no possible gaps in the system. given that terrorism is a dynamically evolving phenomenon, european counter-terrorism policy must also be creative in order to eliminate all its threats.
the fight against terrorism is gaining an alarmingly high profile, and with it the need to establish clear rules for its use, especially as the rapporteur has pointed out with regard to respect for fundamental rights and the protection of data of european union citizens. i would like to stress in particular the need to strengthen judicial and police cooperation within the european union as an indispensable and necessary tool for achieving all the attributes of democracy. however, in my view, such cooperation should be conducted under the supervision of the european parliament as well as national parliaments, in particular in the area of transparency and access to documents, and of the whole of european counter-terrorism policy. i therefore propose that judicial cooperation be strengthened, in particular in the areas of prosecution and investigation with the possibility of freezing assets, protection of witnesses and victims of such crimes, the rate of compensation for victims of terrorism and so on. i therefore call on all the institutions of the european union to apply the charter in their work and to respect all fundamental rights and freedoms in this sensitive area.
it is indeed a paradox that in the whole discussion on the crisis and the counter-crisis measures, the dimension of the responsibility of the banks and the dimension of the non-transparency that increases the systemic risk is absent. in the pre-crisis period, banks got excellent reports from auditors, and suddenly we hear that many of them have so many worthless assets on their balance sheets that even with minor fluctuations, they are in danger of going bankrupt. this is indeed something to consider and to ensure effectively that such a situation does not recur in the future. one of the reasons for the inconsistency and poor quality of audit opinions is, in particular, the concentration of large firms in this type of business. the big four were dependent on revenues from the rated financial institutions, and therefore gave them good grades regardless of what the real situation was. i therefore support the proposal of my colleague the rapporteur to break this monopoly and to introduce real competition in the market for audit firms so that smaller firms also have a chance. i would therefore like to call on the commission, specifically the directorate-general for competition, to carry out a thorough audit market survey and to develop a pan-european regime of professional liability for auditors.
i would like to support several of the proposals contained in the report presented by mr hidalgo. in particular, the adoption of international auditing standards by the european commission would allow us to harmonise audits at european level, which would certainly simplify the work of the supervisory authorities. in the case of audits of a financial institution, reports should also include extended disclosure requirements for the valuation of less liquid assets. auditors should also be required to bring to the attention of the supervisory authorities any problems identified that may jeopardise the continuation of the activities of the entity audited. the partitioning of the audit market can also help to improve the competitive environment and the quality of the work of auditors. i believe that by continuously improving and upgrading the work of auditors, we can also improve the proper assessment and management of assets, and it is therefore good that the european parliament is once again dealing with this issue.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs ford for her report, which is very good, and i would also like to say that the accident on the deepwater horizon, the deep-sea platform, has also led the european union to review the current regulation of offshore oil and gas activities. we must reiterate that environmental and property damage is the responsibility of the extractor. the cost of avoiding pollution should always be borne by the operator and not by the community. the emphasis will always be on prevention. the precautionary principle must be applied in practice, but this requires integrating impact studies into disaster response action plans. the european maritime safety agency should include the provision of technical assistance and advice on safety issues in key offshore oil and gas activities. concentrated regulation and control cannot mean that safety standards create a more favourable situation for industry players. we need to think about small and medium-sized players, so that they are not disadvantaged.
domestic oil and gas supplies make a significant contribution to energy security and energy consumption in the union. more than 90% of our oil and 60% of our gas is extracted from offshore, but this is not uniform across the european union. similarly, not all offshore oil and gas activities in european waters take place in waters under the control of the european union. the deepwater horizon disaster, mentioned above, has prompted all those involved in offshore oil and gas exploration and production to reassess the safety of their industries. and while the oil and gas industry can boast of improving health and safety performance for workers, the focus on staff safety should not distract from the safety of processes, especially in the area of accident prevention and management. i believe that it is appropriate to monitor the strict control and continuous testing and assessment of the environmental effects of substances to ensure that they are harmless even in the event of their release and thus to avoid impacts on public health and the environment.
self-employment offers greater flexibility in terms of working hours and place of work than traditional employment, and thus allows for a flexible combination of work tasks and child and family care, which is the basis for a healthy functioning of society. i find it sad that in the european union only one in ten women is a businesswoman compared to a ratio of one in four men, despite the fact that women account for approximately 60% of all university graduates. the potential of women should therefore be better exploited by the commission, the member states and regional and local authorities by creating new financing options specifically designed for women, such as specific grants, adjusting social security rules and improving the provision of micro-credit to women wishing to start their own small businesses. in this regard, a clear call should be made to member states to encourage banks to create female-oriented business support services.
it is regrettable that women are still discriminated against in the labour market even within the european union. the most frequently mentioned are differences in pay conditions. however, in practice, women are also less likely to set up and run small and medium-sized enterprises. women also face barriers to access to information support and financial and technological tools and services, often limiting their opportunities to expand their businesses and to bid for government or local government contracts, for example. it is important to recognise that women's work and entrepreneurial skills are important to us and are important to society as a whole, and that would also empower them. not only will this encourage women to enter the business world, but with properly implemented measures we could ensure a genuine level playing field for women and eliminate gender discrimination.
i would like to begin by saying that i appreciate the efforts of the european parliament to work towards a progressive improvement in the position of women in european society. in various reports, recommendations and regulations, we call on the member states to create better conditions in their legal systems for the participation of women in public administration, business, management positions and the performance of ordinary work in employment or in the home. while it is true that this effort by the european parliament is producing some results, i think that, in addition to other topics on improving the position of our women, as in this case in the application of the business environment, we should also make greater efforts to evaluate the feedback of the proposed measures to see which of the measures are effective and help us to meet the expected objectives and which are not working for some reason. then we might be able to design more effectively the next steps to improve the status of our women and perhaps also in the business environment.
the financial and economic crisis has further deepened the problems of entrepreneurs, including many potential female entrepreneurs. women under 25 and over 50 have been particularly affected by the financial crisis and therefore need to be given special attention. despite the fact that women entrepreneurs and women in small and medium-sized enterprises are a significant source of women's employment, this potential is not fully exploited in the european union. it is important to encourage women to start their own businesses and to offer them support options that allow for a more efficient use of eu funding. member states should also implement policies that promote a proper work-life balance for women. it is important that the capacity and value of women entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized enterprises is recognised. to strengthen their position and increase their impact on the workplace, financial support for them should be found in the current economic climate, both at eu and national level.
we women have a difficult situation in the labour market because of the persistent discrimination on grounds of sex, age, the still significant pay gap, the care of the family and so on. also, the more gentle sex has less ambition to go into business for themselves in times of crisis. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's own-initiative report, as it is essential in our time to support women entrepreneurs so that they remain motivated and feel supported for their qualifications, abilities, skills and talents. i personally welcome the initiative within the erasmus training programme, which is to be dedicated to supporting young women future female entrepreneurs. i also support the appeal by our rapporteur to member states to seek new sources of funding or contributions for women entrepreneurs, so that women in particular have the same opportunities and access to financial resources and grants as men. women must also feel supported in counselling and assistance in the event of business failure. it would therefore be useful to also focus on building platforms at transnational level, on sharing knowledge and experience in addressing specific problems.
the rapporteur. - have you noticed that on television screens, you can't see any announcers over 50? if he is, he's almost certainly a man. have you noticed that there are far fewer women in their 50s in the workplace than men? statistics show that while 55% of men over 55 are in the labour market, only 37% of women of the same age are in the labour market. there aren't many statistics on this age group, but if you do, if you look for it on the internet, you'll find american or australian data first, european data much less. while governments and parliaments are taking steps to extend the retirement age - i just heard about a british government idea today - analysis shows that the exit from the world of work is happening much sooner. the 2020 strategy set the target of reaching an employment rate of 75% for both men and women. the question is therefore: what can and should be done to prevent workers from leaving the labour market prematurely? of course, that would require knowing the reasons for the early departure. there are many reasons why women leave the workforce sooner than men, and here are a few. there's a lot of discrimination that women face in the workplace. in fact, they often face not simple but complex discrimination. age discrimination, so-called ageing, is to blame for the fact that they cannot be seen on the tv screen. i'm sure this isn't the only track where this is evident. often it is social compulsion that drives them out of the job market, or volunteering when the situation of a caring family member requires it. among the causes are diseases, some of which could be prevented with proper prevention. think of breast cancer or osteoporosis. the design of the workplace, working conditions, and the elimination of workplace injuries obviously fall into the same category. the year of active ageing 2012 clearly provides scope for activities that can improve the situation. the current situation of women over 50 is very serious, as the pay gap in their lives reaches its maximum at this age, when the pay gap between men and women is the largest. this multiple disrupted labour market presence, combined with more frequent part-time employment and slower career progression, results in much lower pensions for women on average. this is why older women are disproportionately at risk of poverty. the report's aim is clear: to outline the steps that can be taken to improve this situation. not just in the area of discrimination, although that's a real problem. age discrimination is considered by the majority of respondents to be based on specific experience. the report also draws several lessons: prevention is cheaper than treatment and this is also true for presence in the labour market. one of the most important conclusions is that pension reform, the long-awaited white paper, must take into account the specificities of women's careers. the period of time spent raising children or caring for family members cannot be left without adequate social security. both are activities whose social significance will only increase with time, with demographic change. without adequate work and broader social conditions, the objectives of the 2020 strategy on employment and poverty reduction will not be achieved.
europe's economic competitiveness and prosperity increasingly depend on the efficient use of labour. however, the necessary extension of working life must be carried out with sensitivity and in conjunction with the creation of decent working conditions appropriate to age and social security systems. in the context of solidarity between generations, member states, in particular regional and local authorities, should establish programmes to support women entrepreneurs in synergy with active ageing programmes, directly involving female entrepreneurial professionals at pre-retirement and retirement age in the creation of new jobs and opportunities. i would like to highlight the admirable and meritorious work of carers who, despite the often unfavourable legal framework and financial remuneration, provide assistance to the most vulnerable members of our society, thus fighting against the social exclusion of people with disabilities and enabling them to lead a life of dignity.
the report focuses on women who have reached the so-called pre-retirement age, which is between 55 and 64 years of age. the alarming fact is that in 21 member states of the european union, employment of women of pre-retirement age is up to 20% lower than that of men of the same age. the existence of such gender inequalities to the disadvantage of women at the very end of their professional careers is a possible cause of several negative social impacts. the fight against gender discrimination, particularly after the age of 50, should therefore be a priority for member states in the area of social and legal protection of their population, so as not to weaken the role of women in the labour market. i would therefore call on the commission to ensure that it creates rules for member states that help women to remain in the labour market and to change social systems as radically as possible by eliminating gender discrimination, especially in the area of pension schemes.
one area where discrimination against women is most evident is the labour market. women do not have adequately guaranteed rights to work, and the percentage of unemployed women in europe is rising. discrimination is mainly directed at young women entering the labour market and women of pre-retirement age who are pressured into part-time work. women over 50 are the most discriminated against because of their age, gender and health. but let's not forget that older women are a huge asset to society. they care for their families, their children, and their grandchildren, and they often volunteer their time. most european women have worked all their lives and it is unfair to deny them this right when their advanced health and decades of experience do not prevent them from doing so. this is the population group at increased risk of poverty and social exclusion. i therefore call on the commission, in the spirit of the next year of active ageing, to take the necessary measures to keep them in the labour market, including social security, pensions and healthcare.
the institute for the settlement of civil and commercial disputes by mediation under the 2008 european community directive is delivering initial results by helping to settle disputes without directly burdening the courts. in particular, in those countries where dispute resolution through mediation is also supported by incentive schemes, a significant reduction in the burden on courts is achieved. the fact that mediation agreements are given the same weight as a court decision in most countries and that the mediation process is significantly cheaper for the parties in financial terms gives this institution good prospects for further expansion. in the future, while promoting this dispute resolution method, we should perhaps also focus on the correct definition of the requirements for access to the mediation profession, in particular in terms of the required training and qualifications and the relevant accreditation within the european union.
the schengen area of free movement and the abolition of internal borders have facilitated the free movement of citizens in an unprecedented way. but it also creates pressure to better protect our external borders. it should be self-evident that the union will welcome legal immigrants and will also protect people fleeing oppression. but it will also be important to prevent crime from entering our territory. frontex has a very important role to play in this respect. however, despite partial successes, it has not been able to achieve the required efficiency in the five years since its establishment. in the area of fundamental rights, the obligation to respect fundamental rights under the charter and the obligation to respect international agreements, including the geneva conventions and commitments on the availability of international protection, have been enforced. and although the institutional architecture of frontex has developed the functions and staff for fundamental rights and data protection, there are still a number of shortcomings that we must ensure are addressed as soon as possible.
since 2005, the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the union, frontex, has been subject to frequent criticism for its unclear mandate to operate in the territory of the member states and for its lack of capacity to provide assistance to member states in the event of emergency situations at the external borders of the union. it is therefore in our common interest to strengthen the capacity of frontex in the future to respond promptly and effectively in situations where the border protection of individual member states is unable to deal with emergency situations at the common borders. in addition to the personnel and technical reinforcement of the rapid reaction teams, we also need to improve the interoperability of the member states' border authorities with frontex, as well as with the other european agencies europol and eurojust, in order to combat cross-border crime. i am convinced that only well-coordinated cooperation between the border services of the member states and the relevant european institutions will contribute to strengthening our common border.
in writing − if you have at the plenary session of 12 may 2011, the president announced, in accordance with rule 6 (2) of the rules of procedure, that he had received a letter from the vienna public prosecutor's office, forwarded to him on 29 april 2011 by the permanent representation of austria to the european union, requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hans-peter martin, member of the european parliament. the vienna prosecutor's office intends to bring charges against him on the grounds that he misused state funds to pay private expenses and to settle overdrawn invoices submitted to him by friends and business partners. the allegations relate to the 2008 and 2009 european parliament election campaign. the mep is also accused of misleading the auditors responsible for controlling the use of funds. during the hearing in the committee on legal affairs, mr martin stated that the prosecution was the result of the efforts of another member and his assistant to take his place as a member of the european parliament. this includes the unlawful obtaining of documents from the premises of the european parliament and the interference with its emails. this was also the subject of a member's complaint to president buzek. i believe it is right that the request of the vienna prosecutor's office to waive the parliamentary immunity of the appointed member should be granted.
in writing - the vienna public prosecutor's office intends to bring proceedings against hans-peter martin, member of the european parliament, on the grounds that he has violated the provisions of section 2b of the austrian law on political parties by misusing public funds to pay private expenses and to settle overcharged invoices submitted to him by friends and business partners. the allegations relate to the 2008 and 2009 european parliament election campaign. hans-peter martin is also accused of misleading the auditors responsible for checking the use of funds by presenting 'fictitious documents' in order to justify the legality of the accounts and/or the legal basis for the use of funds. in the course of the preliminary investigation, the vienna prosecutor's office intends to order a search, in particular of the premises used by the employees of 'liste martin', and to obtain access to information concerning bank accounts and bank transfers in austria and germany. on the basis of the above and pursuant to rule 6 (2) of the rules of procedure, i agree with the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs, after considering the arguments for and against the waiver of the member's immunity, that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr hans-peter martin.
in writing − the schengen area of free movement encompasses 25 countries (including three non-eu countries) and allows almost half a billion people across the continent to travel freely within the area. the abolition of internal borders has certainly facilitated the free movement of citizens in a positive way. however, a coordinated approach to securing the external borders is necessary. the proper functioning of this system requires an integrated management ensuring a uniform and high level of control and supervision. this requires the adoption and implementation of common rules, as well as increased cooperation between member states in securing the external borders. in principle, cooperation must be based on solidarity between member states, in particular with border member states which, due to their geographical and demographic situation, are subject to significant migratory pressures at their borders. it is here that frontex has an important role to play, having faced the rapidly changing events of migration flows at the union's external borders and been active in several joint ground, air and sea operations. however, its effectiveness did not reach the expected level. i believe that the agency should embody european solidarity, bringing together resources from different member states to support member states in difficulty or specific places on the union's external borders that are sensitive or require joint action.
in writing − if you have one of the hallmarks of the eu's common area of freedom, security and justice is also the abolition of internal borders, particularly within the schengen area. at the same time, the external borders of the eu member states have become a matter of common concern and the need for integrated external border management is all the more pressing. with 42,672 km of external maritime borders and 8,826 km of land borders, the schengen area of free movement covers 25 countries (including three non-eu states) and allows almost half a billion people across the continent to travel freely within the area. the abolition of internal borders facilitated the free movement of citizens in a way that had not been seen before. however, this requires a coordinated approach to the security of the external borders. while the external borders remain open and effective for travellers of good faith and persons in need of protection, they must be closed to cross-border crime and other illegal activities. therefore, integrated management is necessary to ensure a uniform and high level of control and supervision. this requires the adoption and implementation of common rules and increased cooperation between member states in securing the external borders. this requires increased joint efforts and the sharing of resources.
in writing − the free movement of persons within the european union and its area of freedom, security and justice is one of the eu's fundamental building blocks and allows nearly half a billion people on the european continent to travel freely within this area. the european union must therefore make it a priority to develop a comprehensive european migration policy based on security, responsibility, solidarity and, of course, human rights. i believe that a uniform and high level of border control and surveillance must be consistently ensured in order to protect eu citizens and therefore agree that the mandate of the agency should be adjusted in order to strengthen the operational capacity of frontex and that the measures taken should be proportionate, effective and respect fundamental rights. i am convinced that in order to effectively protect eu citizens and its values from cross-border crime and other illegal activities, frontex should also deepen its cooperation in the fight against cross-border crime, in particular with europol and eurojust. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that cooperation between member states must be guided by the principle of solidarity with border member states, which, due to their geographical and demographic situation, are subject to significant and disproportionate migratory pressures at their borders.
in writing − if you have under the eu system for the control of exports of dual-use items set out in regulation (ec) no 428/2009, the export of such items listed in the annex to that regulation requires an authorisation. annex i to that regulation was last updated on 5 may 2009 on the occasion of the adoption of regulation (ec) no 428/2009. all international export control regimes have since adopted decisions to amend and update their control lists. i therefore also consider it desirable to make the necessary adjustments to the annex. until now, annex i to that regulation has been automatically transposed into eu law in principle, without any intervention by the european parliament or national parliaments. the leading role of the large member states of the union has been characteristic for coordination within the eu and its representation in international control regimes. however, at present, no eu institution can guarantee the coherence of eu policy towards and within international control regimes. the essential point is that parliament's room for manoeuvre is very limited. it is therefore not in a position to act as amending institution in the case of this file. i believe that there is a need to improve coordination within the eu and its role in international control regimes and to ensure that it acts in a unified manner and has strong parliamentary support on all matters falling within its exclusive competence.
in writing - parliament does not have a real possibility of acting as amending institution on this dossier, as its role as co-decision-making body would require. in view of future amendments to this regulation, it is necessary to improve coordination within the eu and its role in international control regimes and to ensure that the eu acts in a unified manner and has strong parliamentary support on all matters falling within the exclusive competence of the eu. that regulation is hereby amended to make decision-making in the area of the union framework for dual-use items more transparent and democratic, taking into account the requirements of the treaty of lisbon. that's why i supported him.
in writing − if you have many acts adopted in recent decades have exhausted all their legal effects, but remain technically effective. they have become obsolete because of their temporary nature or their content has been incorporated into subsequent acts. some of the measures linked to the accession of the new member states provided for transitional measures immediately after their accession and are now obsolete. the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed in their interinstitutional agreement on better law-making that community law should be updated and consolidated by repealing acts that are no longer applicable. acts which have ceased to be relevant should be deleted from the acquis communautaire in order to improve the transparency and legal certainty of union law. improving the transparency of union law is an essential part of the better law-making strategy pursued by the union institutions. in this context, i believe that it is appropriate to delete from the existing legislation acts which are no longer effective. these are mainly regulations relating to the common agricultural policy. they have become obsolete, though formally still effective. for reasons of legal certainty and clarity, i therefore consider that those obsolete regulations should be repealed.
in writing − if you have this resolution on repealing certain acts that have become obsolete concerns a number of acts adopted over the last decades that have exhausted all their effects. but technically, they remain in effect. they became obsolete because they were of a temporary nature or their content was carried over into subsequent acts. some of the measures linked to the accession of the new member states provided for transitional measures immediately after their accession and are now obsolete. this proposal, which is based on the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, repeals a number of acts. this agreement aims at simplifying and reducing the volume of legislation. under the agreement, the legislation will be updated and clarified, inter alia, by repealing acts that are no longer applicable and by codifying and recasting other acts.
in writing − the commission's proposal to repeal a number of legal acts follows the european union's political commitment to improve the quality of law-making and to simplify existing legislation with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses. many legal acts in the field of the union's common commercial policy adopted in recent decades have lost all their effect, but remain formally effective. those acts have become obsolete because of their temporary nature, because their content was taken over by subsequent legal acts or their content resulted from an international agreement which was subsequently replaced by another agreement, or because they were intended to be a temporary instrument for the period before the entry into force of an international agreement which had in the meantime taken place. moreover, following the accession of the new member states, a number of measures related to that accession became obsolete. the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed in their interinstitutional agreement on better law-making that community law should be updated and streamlined by repealing acts that are no longer applicable. acts which are no longer relevant should be deleted from the acquis communautaire in order to improve the transparency and certainty of union law. i believe it is essential that the purpose and aim of the amendments tabled be to provide a higher degree of clarity and legal certainty for the citizens and the institutions of the union.
in writing − the commission's proposal to repeal several acts, as submitted to the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure, follows the european union's political commitment to improve the quality of law-making and to simplify the legislation in force with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses. many legal acts in the field of the union's common commercial policy adopted in recent decades have lost all their effect, but remain formally effective. these acts have become obsolete: - because of their temporary nature - because their content was taken over by subsequent acts - their content resulted from an international agreement which was subsequently replaced by another agreement - they were intended to be a temporary instrument for the period before the entry into force of the international agreement which had in the meantime taken place. the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed in their interinstitutional agreement on better law-making that community law should be updated and streamlined by repealing acts that are no longer applicable. acts which are no longer relevant should be removed from the acquis communautaire in order to improve the transparency and certainty of union law.
in writing, the commission has repeatedly removed obsolete legislation, usually by declaring the relevant commission acts obsolete. the commission has recently declared some 250 agricultural acts obsolete, some other agricultural acts and some 60 acts on trade in processed agricultural products will be declared obsolete in the near future. in the interests of legal certainty, the commission proposes that the acts referred to in this proposal be repealed by the council, as this is not within the commission's competence and law. the proposal is to repeal council regulation (eec) no 429/73 fixing a reduced fixed component of the import duty on processed agricultural products originating in turkey. its provisions have become obsolete since decision no 1/95 of the ec-turkey association council of 22 december 1995 on the implementation of the final stage of the customs union abolished customs duties on goods originating in turkey. the proposal also concerns the repeal of council regulation (eec) no 215/2000, which has exhausted its legal effects. this proposal is similar to the proposal for obsolete agricultural legislation contained in the simplification intermediate programme adopted as part of the implementation of the commission's recently updated strategy to simplify the regulatory environment. i fully share the council's view that, for reasons of legal certainty and clarity, regulations (eec) no 429/73 and (ec) no 215/2000 should be repealed.
in writing − the proposal to repeal this act stems from the european union's political commitment to improve the quality of lawmaking and simplify existing legislation in order to create a better and more transparent legislative environment for businesses. its provisions have become obsolete since decision no 1/95 of the ec-turkey association council of 22 december 1995 on the implementation of the final stage of the customs union abolished customs duties on goods originating in turkey. the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed in their interinstitutional agreement on better law-making that community law should be updated and reduced by repealing acts that are no longer applicable. acts which are no longer relevant should be deleted in order to improve transparency and certainty of union law. i agree with the commission's proposal, which clearly states that the commission does not have the power to declare acts adopted by the council or by the european parliament and the council to be obsolete. it is in the interest of legal certainty that the repeal of acts be agreed to by the union legislator. the amendments tabled are intended to provide greater clarity and legal certainty for citizens and the institutions of the union.
in writing − if you have in the context of a citizens' europe, the commission attaches great importance to simplifying and making union law more transparent in order to make it more understandable and accessible to citizens, giving them new opportunities and the chance to make more effective use of the specific rights it confers on them. however, that objective cannot be achieved as long as there is a situation where many provisions, repeatedly and often substantially amended, are scattered over several legal acts, from the original act to its latest amendment, which requires an exhaustive search and comparison of many legal acts in order to identify positive law. the clarity and transparency of the law therefore implies the need for frequent codification of amended acts. council directive 85/337/eec of 27 june 1985 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment has been substantially amended several times. in the interests of clarity and rationality, this directive should be codified. personally, i believe that the environmental impacts of the project should be assessed in the light of the interest in protecting human health, improving the environment, contributing to the quality of life, ensuring the conservation of species diversity and preserving the reproductive capacity of the ecosystem as a fundamental resource for life.
in writing − if you have having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legal texts, and in particular point 4 thereof, the commission proposal was examined. it was examined by an advisory working group composed of the relevant legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the proposal is only intended to codify the existing texts in a clear and simple manner without substantially altering them, which is why i supported it.
in writing − the european galileo satellite navigation programme will offer a total of five different services: an open access service, a commercial service, a safety service in situations of danger to human life, a search and rescue service and a publicly regulated service. this proposal concerns a public regulated service (prs public regulated service) intended only for users approved by the government for sensitive applications (e.g. critical infrastructure, transport, internal and external security, emergency services). these applications require a high level of accuracy and reliability, and therefore the prs uses robust, encrypted signals. the legal framework proposed by the commission should be drafted with caution, as certain applications of this service may be politically and strategically sensitive. although the prs is planned to become operational only in 2014, it is important to establish the necessary legal framework in advance, so that member states and other stakeholders have sufficient time to put in place the various monitoring mechanisms and to meet the required safety standards. as non-compliance with security provisions can also have consequences for other participants and users, i believe that it is essential to operate, manage and control access to the prs on the basis of common standards and, ultimately, to ensure that those standards are respected throughout the eu.
in writing − the european galileo satellite navigation programme will offer a total of five different services: an open access service, a commercial service, a safety service in situations of danger to human life, a search and rescue service and a publicly regulated service. this proposal concerns a public regulated service (prs public regulated service) intended only for users approved by the government for sensitive applications (e.g. critical infrastructure, transport, internal and external security, emergency services). these applications require a high level of accuracy and reliability, and therefore the prs uses robust, encrypted signals. the commission proposal establishes a detailed legal framework governing access to the prs, as well as the management and control of users, in order to guarantee the security of the system and the protection of information. the establishment of such a legal framework requires great care, as certain applications of this service may be politically and strategically sensitive and as the required high level of security needs to be ensured. this includes a common and harmonised procedure for the approval of users by the participants. although the prs is planned to become operational only in 2014, it is important to establish the necessary legal framework in advance, so that member states and other stakeholders have sufficient time to put in place the various monitoring mechanisms and to meet the required safety standards. the proposed procedures should ultimately ensure that these standards are respected throughout the eu.
in writing, the negotiating conference established under the auspices of the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad) approved the 2006 international tropical timber agreement on 27 january 2006. all eu member states have expressed their intention to sign this agreement and to contribute appropriately to its provisional application. the objective of the agreement is to promote the development of sustainable forest management and sustainable forest management practices in the tropical forests of the world, including through the promotion of sustainable forest management and sustainable forest management practices in the tropical forests of the world. the agreement sets out ways to ensure a credible licensing system as a measure to ensure that only legally produced timber products enter the market and confirms the very existence and functioning mechanisms of the international tropical timber organisation (itto). the oecd estimates that every year an area of original forest cover the size of greece is being lost, irreplaceable biodiversity is being threatened and the danger of global warming is increasing. i think it is desirable to do the maximum for stronger enforcement in the forestry area by taking adequate steps. the agreement presented is therefore welcome and parliament's consent would be appropriate.
in writing − the agreement is the result of negotiations between consumers and tropical wood processors. the objective is to promote the diversification and growth of tropical timber trade and the sustainable management of tropical forests. meps insisted that the provision of the lisbon treaty, according to which the european parliament must give its consent to all international agreements, should be applied correctly in this case.
in writing. − switzerland is the european union's fourth largest trading partner. in 2010, the eu exported €6.3 billion worth of agricultural products to switzerland. it is of the utmost importance that the european union continuously cooperates with the swiss authorities to improve the conditions of bilateral trade relations. the eu and switzerland have defined their relations through bilateral agreements in various fields. in december 2008, the european union adopted an agreement aimed at facilitating bilateral trade in agricultural products by removing technical barriers. by adding a new annex 12, both parties eu and switzerland seek to guarantee mutual recognition of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications in order to preserve the conditions for bilateral trade in agricultural products while promoting quality in the food chain. the two parties have agreed on a harmonised procedure for the indication and effective protection of registered origin and geographical indications. subsequently, following that common opinion and the approximation of their respective legislation, they mutually recognised the list of registered protected agricultural products. with this addendum to the agreement, eu exporters will be able to benefit from increased protection of designations of origin and geographical indications, reflecting their expertise and high level of food quality, in one of our closest and largest export markets. i am therefore convinced that it is appropriate for the european parliament to give its consent to the agreement.
in writing − switzerland is the european union's fourth largest trading partner. the value of exports and imports of agricultural products between the eu and switzerland is significant. in 2010, the eu exported eur 6.3 billion worth of agricultural products to switzerland, making it the third largest market for eu agricultural exports. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the european union continuously cooperates with the swiss authorities to improve the conditions of bilateral trade relations. the eu and switzerland have defined their relations through bilateral agreements in various fields. in order to minimise the negative consequences of switzerland's rejection of the free trade agreement in 1992, negotiations were opened in seven sectors, including the agricultural sector, with a view to concluding trade agreements. eu exporters of key agricultural products such as meat and dairy products will benefit from increased protection of designations of origin and geographical indications reflecting their expertise and high level of food quality in one of our closest and largest export markets, thanks to this agreement supplement. i therefore supported the granting of the consent to the agreement.
written − norway, as a member of the european economic area (eea), benefits from the internal market, but agriculture and fisheries are excluded from free circulation by the 1992 eea treaty. the latest agreement between the kingdom of norway and the european community on the basis of article 19 of the eea agreement entered into force in july 2003. it contained provisions on mutual trade in cheeses and mutual concessions for various agricultural products, including tariff quotas. from march 2008 to january 2010, new negotiations were held, which resulted in the current draft agreement. it takes into account the sensitivity of certain products important for agricultural production in both the eu and norway and contains appropriate provisions on tariff quotas and reduced tariff rates to be applied to agricultural production also in the medium and long term, subject to deeper cap reforms after 2013. despite the fact that there is a presumption of budgetary consequences in the form of loss of customs revenue, i believe it is appropriate for parliament to adopt the agreement.
in writing − if you have this agreement takes into account the sensitivity of certain products of importance to agricultural production in both the eu and norway. it contains appropriate provisions on tariff quotas and reduced tariff rates to be applied to agricultural production also in the medium and long term, subject to deeper cap reforms after 2013. although norway's overall trade balance with the eu is positive, the trade balance relating to agriculture is in favour of the eu. eu exports of agricultural products doubled to eur 1.6 billion between 2000 and 2007. this agreement will have budgetary implications; the loss in customs revenue is estimated at approximately eur 4,96 million (net of the costs of customs collection). i voted to approve this deal.
in writing − trade relations between the eu and liechtenstein are closely linked to trade relations between the eu and switzerland. in order to minimise the negative consequences of switzerland's rejection of the agreement on the european economic area in 1992, negotiations were launched on trade agreements in seven areas, including the agreement on agricultural products. the agriculture agreement was concluded in 1999 and entered into force on 1 june 2002. the ec-switzerland agreement has subsequently been extended to the principality of liechtenstein. this extension (additional agreement) entered into force on 13 october 2007 and meant that any amendment to the agreement on trade in agricultural products would also mean an amendment to the agreement between the eu, switzerland and liechtenstein. by adding a new annex (annex 12) to the agriculture agreement, the eu and switzerland seek to ensure mutual recognition of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications in order to maintain conditions for bilateral trade in agricultural products, while promoting quality in the food chain. under the additional agreement, liechtenstein products are considered as products originating in switzerland. the agreement between the european community, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein should therefore also be amended in order to extend the protection of geographical indications to liechtenstein. the amendment of the additional agreement is a positive and necessary step and i therefore believe that it is desirable for the european parliament to give its consent to its conclusion.
in writing − if you have under the additional agreement, liechtenstein products are considered as products originating in switzerland. the agreement between the european community, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein should therefore also be amended in order to extend the protection of geographical indications to liechtenstein. the two designations of the name in the swiss national register will also cover the territory of liechtenstein. the new annex 12 to the agriculture agreement will improve bilateral trade in agricultural products between the ec and switzerland. therefore, the amendment of the additional agreement is also a positive and necessary step.
in writing − if you have the southern pacific fisheries have been managed by two regional fisheries management organisations: the inter-american tropical tuna commission (iattc) and the western and central pacific fisheries commission (wcpfc). as the aim of both organisations is to manage long-distance migratory species, fishing for other resources in this vast area was not regulated, with the exception of the exclusive economic zones of coastal states, which applied their own rules. to fill this gap, they decided to initiate in 2006 a process of international consultations on the establishment of a regional fisheries management organisation for the south pacific (sprfmo) to ensure cooperation in addressing the shortcomings in the management and protection of high seas biodiversity in the south pacific. the text of the convention was finally agreed in november 2009 and the convention was opened for signature on 1 february 2010. the eu signed it on 26 july 2010 in accordance with the relevant council decision of 24 july 2010. it is currently undergoing ratification by the parties concerned and the intention of this legislative act is to allow its ratification in the eu through a draft council decision. i believe that the european union should be present in all regional fisheries management organisations, also to ensure that its efforts to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing are not undermined.
in writing - the benefits of the convention outweigh the disadvantages. the eu should be present in all regional fisheries management organisations. on the one hand, to defend its priorities regarding its views on what sustainable fisheries management should entail, and on the other hand, to protect the interests of its fishing fleet by acting as a counterweight where necessary. it will ensure that its efforts to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing are not undermined.
in writing − the agreement deals with the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european community and brazil on civil aviation safety. since the elimination of technical barriers to trade in goods is a matter of exclusive competence of the union, it may be concluded by a council decision. at present, only six member states have bilateral product certification agreements with brazil. they shall expire on the date of entry into force of this agreement, which is of net benefit to the european union in that it provides for the mutual recognition of certification findings in all areas of airworthiness for all member states. the main objectives of the agreement are to facilitate trade in goods and services covered by the agreement, to limit the duplication of assessments, tests and inspections to the greatest extent possible to significant regulatory differences and to rely on the certification system of one party for the purpose of verifying conformity with the requirements of the other party. it is based on mutual trust in each other's systems and on a comparison of regulatory differences. the agreement is a major benefit for both european and brazilian airlines, as they will save millions of euros annually through less costly product approval procedures and mutual recognition of certification findings. i therefore believe that it is desirable that the council (provided that parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of this agreement) does not delay the completion of the relevant procedures.
in writing − the agreement is of net benefit to the european union in that it provides for the mutual recognition of certification findings in all areas of airworthiness for all member states. the enhanced role of parliament resulting from the lisbon treaty also implies the corresponding responsibility for monitoring the conduct of the negotiations in greater detail. european and brazilian companies will save millions of euros annually thanks to shorter and simpler - and therefore less costly - product approval procedures and mutual recognition of certification findings. in addition, the agreement represents a net benefit for the european union in that it provides for the mutual recognition of certification findings in all areas of airworthiness for all member states.
written − in july 2001, the council authorised the presidency of the council, with the assistance of the european commission, to open negotiations with norway and iceland on mutual legal assistance and extradition agreements. the mandate was updated in 2002 after it was agreed that intra-eu extradition would be replaced by a surrender procedure based on a european arrest warrant. despite the decision not to link the european arrest warrant with the schengen acquis, the council agreed that it would be useful to apply the model of the surrender procedure to the schengen countries, given their privileged partnership with eu member states. the council may take a decision on the conclusion of the agreement only after obtaining the consent of parliament. the agreement aims to improve the surrender procedure between the member states and norway and iceland for the purpose of prosecution or enforcement of a judgment. in accordance with the provisions of the agreement, the parties shall ensure that the system of extradition is based on a european arrest warrant surrender mechanism. as long as this agreement only extends to norway and iceland, at the request of both countries, provisions already in force between eu member states, there is no reason for concern, i think. however, progress in the area of procedural rights is necessary and necessary in order to provide citizens with extensive rights associated with the use of the european arrest warrant, thereby guaranteeing civil liberties and public confidence in this instrument.
in writing − if you have the aim of this agreement is to improve the surrender procedure between the member states and norway and iceland for the purpose of prosecution or enforcement of a judgment by taking into account, as a minimum standard, the terms of the extradition convention between the member states of the eu of 27 september 1996. in accordance with the provisions of the agreement, the parties shall ensure that the system of extradition is based on a european arrest warrant surrender mechanism. an arresting officer may be extradited for acts which, under the law of the issuing state, are punishable by a custodial sentence or an arrest warrant for a maximum period of at least 12 months, or where a judgment or an arrest warrant has already been issued for sentences of at least four months. progress is needed in the area of procedural rights in order to provide citizens with extensive rights associated with the use of the european arrest warrant, thereby guaranteeing civil liberties and public confidence in this instrument.
in writing − the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking was established by council regulation (ec) no 521/2008 of 30 may 2008. the administrative and operational costs are co-financed by three members, industry groups, research associations and the european commission. fuel cell and hydrogen technologies are promising long-term energy alternatives that can be used in all sectors of the economy and that provide a wide range of benefits for energy security, transport, the environment and resource efficiency. they are expected to play an important role in the eu's transition to a low-carbon society and in achieving the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 85% by 2050. over the past years, the fuel cell and hydrogen industry has made considerable progress in developing technologies in all these application areas, in particular in improving performance and reducing costs. in order to make a full contribution to fuel cell and hydrogen technologies, i believe that there is still a need for consistent and stable public support and accompanying policy measures to overcome the remaining technological, economic and institutional barriers that prevent their widespread commercialisation. this initiative is part of the eu's wider ambitious strategy to tackle innovation gaps and includes a proposal to establish a european institute of technology.
in writing − the measures taken in europe and the world in the immediate aftermath of the financial crisis addressed the urgent need to stabilise the financial system. while the role played by banks, hedge funds, credit rating agencies, supervisors or central banks has been the subject of several discussions and analyses, only limited attention has been paid to how the audit function could be improved to enhance financial stability. the fact that many banks have experienced huge losses on their balance sheet and sub-balance sheet positions from 2007 to 2009 raises not only the question of how auditors could have provided their clients with clean audit reports during this period, but also the question of the appropriateness and adequacy of the current legislative framework. it therefore seems appropriate that the role of audit, as well as the scope of audit, be further discussed and examined in the general context of financial market regulatory reform. in this context, it should be stressed that the statutory auditors must play an important role. this mandate corresponds to the fulfilment of the common task of providing an opinion on the veracity and integrity of the financial statements of the audited entities. the independence of auditors should therefore be a cornerstone of the audit environment. at the same time, i believe that any market configuration should be accompanied by an effective oversight system that is completely independent of the audit profession.
in writing − the measures taken since the outbreak of the financial crisis have been aimed mainly at stabilising financial markets. in-depth analysis of the activities of banks, hedge funds, credit rating agencies, central banks and supervisory institutions has been produced, but little attention has been paid to how audits can contribute to improving financial stability. many banks suffered huge losses in 2007-2009 as a result of excessive risk-taking; this raises questions about how auditors can contribute to the credibility of financial information provided and whether the existing legislative framework is adequate .
in writing, the auditors undoubtedly play a key role in strengthening supervision. the experience gained from the crisis has shown that a strict risk management supervision of financial institutions is necessary, as excessive risk-taking by financial institutions has been largely linked to lax and ineffective risk control and management mechanisms. the quality of the audit is essential for economic stability and market confidence, as it provides a picture of the true financial health of companies. quality, independent and objective audit reports must therefore be drawn up for financial institutions that are systemically important to the eu and member states' economies. i therefore welcomed the green paper prepared by the commission, which clearly identified the fundamental problems in the audit area. at the same time, i join the call for the commission to analyse the possibility of gradual harmonisation of audit standards and procedures in the single european market.
in writing − women make up at least 50% of the population in every eu country and are therefore an important sector of the labour force. moreover, europe has the highest proportion of older women in the world. older people make up a large and growing proportion of the eu population. they represent a huge cultural, social and professional resource. their ongoing contribution to society, often unpaid, is often overlooked and the potential for their increased involvement remains untapped. there is a well-founded fear that the older generation is becoming too much of a burden to people of productive age. a major opportunity to tackle demographic ageing and preserve intergenerational solidarity therefore lies in ensuring that people can stay longer in the labour market and remain healthy, active and independent for as long as possible after retirement. solidarity between generations has long been an important point on the eu agenda. the current economic crisis has a serious impact, due to restrictive measures, in particular on older women who already suffer discrimination on the grounds of health or disability, and equally negatively affects their access to basic services. proper management of the ageing population can contribute to better economic and social policies. i think it's imperative to refute the assumption that an aging population is a social and economic burden on society.
in writing − one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to fight poverty and promote employment by raising the employment rate to 75% and reducing poverty by 20 million people. older people make up a large and growing proportion of the eu population. with europe's ageing population comes the challenge of ensuring sustainable pensions in the face of low birth rates, a shrinking workforce and a growing number of healthy and long-lived pensioners. the proper management of the ageing population and of the inevitable changes in society can contribute to better economic and social policies. the prevailing political rhetoric that sees an ageing population as a social and economic burden on society needs to be overcome. it is crucial that the gender and age dimension is integrated into all active ageing strategies at all levels of management.
in writing. - i am pleased that the committee on women's rights has started to address the life cycle issue. it's a step in the right direction. from the beginning, i have been advocating in this committee that women should stop being punished for wanting to be mothers and take care of children and families. women divide their lives and work according to different priorities than men. as a result, women and men have different work rhythms. fair policy must take this into account. we want young women to have more children. we're worried about a shortage of manpower. however, when women take advantage of the legally established maternity protection period after childbirth, they are punished for it. it's a paradox -- we ask women to give birth more, but we're not willing to acknowledge their contribution. as a result, many women face poverty in their old age as a direct result of this injustice. taking life into account opens the way to a solution that is fair to women and mothers.
in writing − ensuring better access to justice is one of the key objectives of the european union's policy to create an area of freedom, security and justice. directive 2008/52/ec aims to promote the amicable settlement of disputes by promoting the use of mediation and to ensure a balanced relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings. in order to facilitate access to it as a viable alternative to the traditional adversarial approach, the directive introduces common principles focusing in particular on aspects of civil procedure. the european parliament considers it important to examine how this legislation is implemented at member state level, in order to find out what mediation service providers and users think of it and how it could be improved. i believe that to this end, a thorough analysis should be carried out in order to identify good practices and draw conclusions on further action at european level. there is a need to increase awareness and understanding of mediation. national authorities should be encouraged to develop programmes to promote awareness of alternative dispute resolution and these activities should focus on the main benefits of mediation, which include cost, success rate and time efficiency. it is appropriate to promote the improvement of the quality of mediation and to ensure a high level of training and accreditation in all countries of the european union.
in writing − ensuring better access to justice is a key objective of eu policy. in most member states, there is a procedure to ensure that a mediation agreement has the same weight as a court decision. the parties who have opted for mediation in order to settle the dispute should not be prevented from subsequently resolving the dispute in court by the length of time during which the mediation has been conducted. the introduction of financial incentives for participation in mediation and binding requirements for mediation helps to resolve disputes more efficiently and reduces the burden on courts. mediation should be promoted as a feasible, economic and quicker alternative form of justice, rather than as a mandatory aspect of judicial proceedings. there is a need to increase awareness and understanding of mediation. therefore, further measures are needed concerning education, raising awareness of mediation, increasing the use of mediation by businesses and the requirements for access to the profession of mediator. it is important to establish common standards for access to the profession of mediator in order to promote the improvement of the quality of mediation and to ensure a high level of training and accreditation throughout the eu.
written − council regulation (ec) no 378/2007 of 27 march 2007 laying down rules for the voluntary modulation of direct payments provided for in regulation (ec) no 1782/2003, establishing common rules for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers confers powers on the commission to implement certain provisions of that regulation. however, as a consequence of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission by regulation (ec) no 378/2007 need to be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in order to ensure uniform application of voluntary modulation of direct payments in all member states, the power to adopt implementing acts in accordance with article 291 of the treaty should be delegated to the commission. in order to ensure the effective implementation of voluntary modulation, the commission should, by means of implementing acts, determine the net amounts resulting from the application of voluntary modulation. in view of the nature of the implementing acts envisaged, the commission should adopt those acts without the assistance of the committee.
written − the proposal amends council regulation no 378/2007 by inserting a single provision on implementing acts (article 4 (1)). the conditions for the application of the provisions on implementing acts in those articles are set out in articles 6a and 6b. following the recent conclusion of a joint agreement on the practical arrangements for the application of delegated acts (article 290 tfeu) and the completion of the procedure for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers, i agree with the rapporteur that the text of the legal text, including the text on comitology, agreed by parliament and the council should be updated.
in writing − if you have in most industrialized countries, including all eu member states and emerging economies, there is at least one state-supported export credit agency. these agencies represent the most important source of public financial support for projects in the private sector. the amount of support they provide for large industrial and infrastructure projects in developing countries is several times higher than the total annual allocations of all multilateral development banks. they facilitate legitimate trade in the event that the private capital market fails. they have a much higher risk-taking capacity than private entities, since they do not have to pay taxes and generate profits, and are therefore more protected than private banks in the event of interest-bearing loan settlement. however, for the same reason, they can also be a major trade disturbance if their financial operations are not governed by common rules. export credit agencies are public policy instruments that are well placed to contribute to the financing of the international objectives to which the eu is committed. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon requires a strengthening of coherence across the eu's external action. export credit agencies must also be assessed against these objectives. i think it is appropriate to include in the agreement on state-supported export credit those requirements which could lead these agencies in the eu member states to contribute to eu policies and objectives.
written − export credit agencies are public policy instruments that are well placed to contribute to the financing of international objectives to which the eu is committed, in particular those related to climate change and poverty reduction. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon requires a strengthening of coherence across the eu's external action. export credit agencies support twice as many oil, gas and mining projects as all multilateral development banks combined. half of industrial projects with high levels of co2 emissions receive some form of support from export credit agencies. one reason is that most of these projects are high risk due to environmental, political, social and cultural impact and could not be implemented without the assistance and financial support of the export credit agencies. export credit agencies bear a huge responsibility for the harmful environmental consequences of economic activity. rather, as state-supported institutions, export credit agencies should and could play a significant role in supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy in line with their governments' climate commitments.
written. − european industry is facing an increasingly difficult situation in terms of raw material supply. the eu is highly dependent on imports for many raw materials. moreover, the lack of resources can exacerbate the situation on the international political scene and, if necessary, lead to a struggle for resources and to a widening of the gap between resource-rich and resource-poor countries. therefore, new approaches addressing non-energy, non-agricultural raw materials need to be developed to ultimately avoid situations where one party always wins and the other always loses. in addition to the industrial innovation strategy aimed at reducing resource consumption and increasing recycling, the european union will continue to rely on external suppliers for raw materials. raw materials diplomacy is therefore essential. in this context, the european union needs to forge mutually beneficial partnerships that benefit both resource-rich countries and the eu itself. in order to successfully address the raw materials problem, the union needs a comprehensive and integrated strategy focusing on short-term and long-term measures that can be implemented both domestically and abroad, in particular with regard to critical raw materials. i believe that it is essential to seek to ensure future competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply through appropriate measures.
written − the rapporteur points to the importance of diplomacy in gaining access to strategic minerals (such as metals used in technological sectors) for european industry; he considers this to be one of the tasks of the european external action service. it also points to opportunities in the eu that could reduce imports from third countries: own extraction and production (including research and development of new technologies), but also recycling, reuse and recovery of raw materials and metals from landfills. the eu's mineral strategy must be effective and fair; it must also respect the right of developing countries to benefit from their own mineral resources. the objectives of the strategy are to further develop european industry, increase recycling rates and make the management of natural resources more efficient across the eu.
in writing − the black sea is a sea whose resources are shared to some extent by the six black sea states. the area also has great economic, social and political importance. fisheries cooperation between countries in the black sea region would represent a major step forward in conservation management and effective management of the problems in this area. the special nature of the black sea's biodiversity also requires a common management approach. in order to effectively address the challenges of the black sea region, it is essential to deepen cooperation between all stakeholders in the fisheries sector, including industry representatives, scientists and policy-makers from fisheries areas, in order to promote investment in scientific activities and research. the black sea partnership model must be based on the implementation of joint and long-term economic plans, as well as on cooperation between stakeholders and the coordination of their efforts in different areas. particular attention should be paid to the threat of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i am of the opinion that the development of such cooperation can only be achieved through the active participation of the european commission and the black sea countries.
in writing − the report is a proposal for a coordinated and common approach to fisheries, which would also concern third countries: russia, ukraine, turkey and georgia. the report calls for improved cooperation with existing international organisations and for exploring the possibility of creating a specific regional fisheries management authority for the black sea. cooperation should lead to improved conditions for fishermen, economic development of coastal areas and protection of the ecological balance and fish stocks. therefore, not only the eu member states but also the other states bordering the black sea should be involved.
in writing − domestic oil and gas supplies make a significant contribution to energy consumption and energy security in the eu. more than 90% of its oil and 60% of its gas is extracted from offshore activities. however, extraction is not uniform across the eu and most of it takes place in the north sea. similarly, not all offshore oil and gas activities in european waters take place in waters under eu control. the deepwater horizon disaster has prompted all those involved in offshore oil and gas exploration and production to reassess safety in their industries. the so-called safety documentation approach is a site-specific risk approach. the offshore oil and gas industry has a track record of continuously improving health and safety performance. however, the focus on the safety of personnel should not distract from the safety of procedures, in particular in the area of accident prevention and management. i believe that it is appropriate to monitor the strict control and continuous testing and assessment of the environmental effects of chemicals to ensure that they are suitable in the event of a leak and to prevent impacts on public health and the environment.
written − the report shall enforce regular, rigorous and independent safety controls throughout the extraction process, including preparatory work before extraction begins. information on all safety risks should be publicly available and transparent. in the event of an accident, the european maritime safety agency should take over the coordination of the remediation. on the contrary, there is no need to create a separate body to manage offshore oil and gas production, but rather to strengthen cooperation at european level between regulatory authorities in individual eu member states.
in writing − if you have in the business world, those who run their own businesses are often much more dedicated than employees and sacrifice even their personal lives in order to compete. women face a much more difficult situation, as they sometimes have to overcome discrimination in what is traditionally considered a male environment. many have had to rearrange their personal goals to balance family obligations. even in the 21st century, the prevailing view is that a woman's primary role is in the home, especially if she is a mother. it is important to recognise women's working capacity and to empower them. not only does this encourage women to enter the business world, but the appropriate steps should also be to ensure that they are on an equal footing, with no place for gender discrimination. the approaches of eu member states to women setting up their own businesses vary, as does the support they provide. each member state has adopted a different approach to the promotion and advancement of women in decision-making and management positions. also, the problems faced by women vary from country to country. however, i believe that appropriate measures at local, regional and national level, and through various media, can help to encourage women to enter the workforce.
written - the rapporteur argues that men and women do not have equal opportunities to run businesses. she believes that improving the business environment for women is a long-term process that requires time and a change in the attitude of society as a whole. the report encourages member states to support more women entrepreneurs through special financial instruments such as grants, venture capital, social security, etc. it also encourages member states to seek to help women who have become insolvent and to promote the exchange of experience through various mentoring programmes. finally, the report highlights the importance of specialised training (such as erasmus exchange programmes) for young women to encourage them to start their own businesses.
in writing. − smes are the backbone of the economy. it is therefore right to remove bureaucratic barriers, to stimulate the provision of education and to improve access to credit and information so that everyone - women and men - can start a business at any time. but it is not right to support only women or only men in business. nobody buys a product just because a woman made it. let's not close our eyes to motherhood. otherwise, we're going to have a generation of kids raised by people other than their own parents. will this generation later show solidarity with their parents? no, i did not. they'll do the same thing they did to them. they put their parents in the care of strangers. they won't care how they spend the autumn of their lives or how they prepare to leave this world. women must be free to choose their future and the future of their family. the state shouldn't be making decisions for them.
the interconnectedness of wholesale energy markets in the union is already becoming an everyday reality, including market abuse in one member state with a negative impact on wholesale and retail electricity and gas prices in other member states. ensuring the integrity of markets requires the establishment of an appropriate legislative framework adapted to the specific conditions in the energy sector. the sectoral approach should thus be able to prevent market abuse, which often occurs at the expense of consumers, while encouraging open and fair competition in wholesale energy markets. the energy situation in the european union shows that the european union needs to increase the transparency of energy markets if it is to further deepen market integration in the european union, encourage investment in energy infrastructure and optimise... (interruption) )
the fundamental right of access to documents of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union is unquestionable. transparency must be the foundation of any participatory democracy and should ideally complement representative democracy. the treaty on european union allows citizens to participate in the decision-making process and thus exercise public control, thereby guaranteeing the legitimacy of the democratic political system. the commission proposed in 2008 an update of the regulation on public access to parliament, council and commission documents. however, the amendments proposed by the commission do not improve the level of access to documents of the institutions. the inappropriate definition of what constitutes a document limits the scope of the data available and is therefore contrary to the treaty of lisbon. i would therefore ask the commission to revise its proposals and i am also convinced that steps can be taken in the legislative process. the public could thus be much better informed if the parliamentary committees adopted indicative votes before the negotiations and the council published the negotiating positions agreed within coreper.
mr president, on the issue of public access to documents, the eu needs to be at the forefront of transparency and facilitate broad access to information for its citizens as this is their fundamental right. a possible lack of transparency, openness and access to documents would only lead to a situation where european society would lose confidence in the eu. i am not only referring to legislative documents, but also to documents concerning the allocation of public funds and audits concerning their spending. i would like to call on the commission and council to work towards more transparent rules on freedom of information and review their rules concerning access to these documents. in the case of international agreements, i would especially like the council to be more accommodating in granting parliament access to classified documents connected to international agreements and also classified documents related to the eu evaluation processes.
clear and comprehensible legislation is easier to access and thus guarantees a more effective legal enforcement of rights and obligations. the initiative called smart regulation in the european union is therefore clearly the right step forward. in my experience, effective communication about legislative proposals, but also about the legislative process, directly with the addressees of the rules, i.e. citizens and businesses, remains the basis for a better functioning of european legislation. regular and open communication with representatives of civil society should therefore be strengthened, and i believe that they should be encouraged to be regularly involved in the legislative process and in public action in general, not only at regional and national level but also at a level that is far away, namely the european level. i see i have to close, but i just wanted to congratulate the vice president for, as he said in january, being committed to this smart regulation agenda, we have it on the table and i think we're going to get a good result.
commissioner šefčovič, i am very pleased that you are taking part in this debate, as you are already known for your positive attitude towards citizens' initiatives. and although many people have given up on public engagement, there are still many who petition parliament. many petitions are appeals against decisions of national authorities. in any case, most petitions refer to the incorrect application of european legislation, whether due to its incorrect transposition, deficiencies in its application or breaches. in order not to waste the precious interest and activity of the europeans who turn to us, it will be necessary to work in particular on awareness of competences. indeed, petitions that were judged inaccessible were often cases where petitioners confused national and european jurisdiction, and where the institutions of the european union confused the council of europe, and in particular the court of human rights. while our refusal of such petitions is in accordance with the law, we must ensure that the public is sufficiently informed about the division of powers, what the right to petition means and what can be achieved by petitioning parliament.
thank you very much, i'll also have a question for commissioner andor. the global economic crisis is also having a very significant impact on unemployment. you will surely agree with me that good legislation and labour codes should be the tools to kick-start employers' interest in hiring and creating new jobs. the labour code in slovakia, which was approved by the right-wing government, is probably the most important in europe. where the average working time of an employee, including overtime, may exceed 48 hours and employees may work overtime for 400 hours in a calendar year, or managers for up to 550 hours. so my question is: why did slovakia get an exemption from eu law when slovakia has long-term unemployment of 13%?
perhaps not a question, but i agree with the commissioner that this is not a good solution. i certainly agree with some professions, like doctors, that it's necessary to have overtime because there are no doctors or other functions. but to legislate in the labour code a 'leading worker' under which anything can be grouped, i think that is not appropriate and the commission should object.
madam president, commissioner, as rapporteur on the budget for the committee on international trade (inta) i strongly support projects allowing and accelerating access for eu companies to fast-growing countries and regions. i see it as an excellent investment, with multi-fold returns. in tough economic times such as those we are living through now, these activities are even more critical. business centres in china, india and thailand are coming on line now; two new amendments for the internationalisation of eu smes, in particular on other high-growth countries and the mediterranean region, passed in my inta committee almost unanimously. they are inexpensive, with large potential returns, politically and economically. my hope is that the council will see it the same way as my committee did.
the sme sector is the backbone of the national economy. and if that has not been true everywhere, it should be true twice as much. economic and financial globalization has brought the world economy to a state dominated by speculative financial groups and giant multinational corporations. this situation has resulted in a crisis. so, in my view, one of the measures to get out of the crisis should be to re-emphasise local production, in smaller economic units and within more decentralised economic systems. the european union can and often does help in this regard. however, smes in the member states are not always aware of the possibilities for support. in their question, colleagues rightly pointed out that public support programmes and information resources are often poorly known to entrepreneurs. i therefore believe that one of the greatest challenges for the commission is precisely the promotion and promotion of these programmes in the individual member states.
smes are at the heart of european union production. they account for only a small percentage of europe's external trade. one of the reasons for this phenomenon is also the fact that they do not have sufficient capacity built up to engage in cross-border trade. they are not familiar with public support programmes or the information resources intended to support them and therefore cannot use this aid effectively. in addition, they encounter customs barriers and different certification and standardisation rules in other countries in cross-border trade. we must therefore look for new effective instruments to help at least those enterprises with production potential to be used in international trade to overcome these administrative barriers. i think that by better promoting public support programmes and information resources, such as the policy of gradually eliminating administrative barriers in foreign trade, we could effectively open the way for medium-sized enterprises to international trade.
for the efd group the phenomenon of homelessness has long been a drag on europe's civilised and cultural society. street homelessness is the most visible and extreme form of poverty and social exclusion. the reasons for this situation vary. often, these are personal factors, such as a break-up in a relationship, domestic violence, the death of a partner, loss of employment, illegal immigration, substance abuse, or the complete loss of earning potential. the european consensus conference on homelessness last december sought to answer the question of how to deal with this unpleasant phenomenon that frustrates all decent people. the basic and first measure should be prevention by minimising the threat of eviction in cases of personal problems. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states in order to enable them to take appropriate measures to ensure that the emergency accommodation is provided in a timely manner. consequently, after overcoming the worst problems, the disabled should be able to work their way to cheap, simple but stable accommodation by their own best efforts. of course, other assistance will have to be provided for the homeless in addition to housing. however, this should also be granted primarily for their active cooperation.
in december, i joined more than half of my colleagues in calling on the commission to adopt an effective and comprehensive union strategy to combat street homelessness. we are therefore now asking the commission what has actually happened since then, what measures have you taken and we would also like to know whether you would like to work with us on such a strategy. a strategy to combat street homelessness should include several elements. it should have a clear and measurable objective, it should be cross-cutting across all relevant policies. it should have a clear dimension in housing policy and should also take into account changes in the character of the population, whether it concerns, for example, the effects of immigration, but also the ever-deepening poverty as a result of the economic and social crisis also in the member states of the european union. reporting on strategies to combat homelessness should be included in the national strategic reports submitted under the open method of coordination in the social field. i would therefore like to call on the commission once again to ensure that effective measures are implemented and to work with us on a concrete strategy to combat street homelessness.
homelessness is one of the most extreme and worst manifestations of poverty and social exclusion. homeless people are found every day outside shopping malls, in the basements, on the streets, neglected, dirty, hungry. solidarity is a hallmark of the european union. awareness that all people have the right to a life of dignity, an understanding that society as a whole benefits from the eradication of poverty, must engage all layers of society to eradicate this phenomenon. i see a space here for individuals, both public and private. the awareness campaigns that are being prepared should help to do this, but the time has come for us to bring in a pan-european system of cooperation between the member states.
all people can find themselves in a very difficult situation without a roof over their heads. a number of problems, such as work, financial, family, or psychological difficulties, pile up, plunging such a person into a hopeless situation. the joint efforts of local and regional authorities and the european institutions thus become a necessary prerequisite for creating a lasting solution to this problem. structural funds directed towards housing strategies for socially disadvantaged groups should also be explicitly earmarked for addressing the problems of homelessness and their specific use must be monitored and evaluated accordingly. in conclusion, i would like to express my conviction that homelessness is incompatible with the values of a modern inclusive society and the european union, and therefore i appreciate that the strategy 2020, whose main objective is to save at least 20 million people from the threat of poverty and social exclusion by 2020, has given room to address the issue of homelessness as well.
let me give you a look that hasn't been seen before. if the family works, homelessness is a marginal phenomenon. we need to help people who have lost everything and can't help themselves anymore. but this parliament still passes a lot of legislation that weakens the family. the commission and parliament are doing everything possible to ensure that mothers entrust the care of their children to strangers in collective institutions as soon as possible. it's at the expense of building relationships. we talk about reconciling work and family life, but we refuse to recognize the value of a woman's work, who takes care of children, close relatives, or the home. when a person is on the street, we draft resolutions, we call committees, we commission studies, and we devise strategies. but what we fail to realize is that building and maintaining a home takes effort, time, and energy. it's a tough job. if no one does it, the family and the home will perish. some people manage to save their roof over their heads, but some don't.
the european union is doing a lot to improve the climate gradually. it is a leader in designing and promoting effective measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions across the global community. however, current evidence suggests that a more comprehensive approach to anthropogenic emissions will be needed to save the climate. it appears that, as the question put forward suggests, we should gradually start to reduce the production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons, to reduce black carbon emissions or to limit the production of gases contributing to tropospheric ozone. already, the montreal protocol can be relied upon in expanding efforts to reduce the production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons at international level immediately. but experience of the world community's current behaviour shows us that even further measures needed to improve the climate will need to be prepared and initiated again here in europe. but the sooner we start doing that, the sooner other countries around the world can join our efforts to improve the climate.
in writing every euro area country is facing the consequences of the crisis. restrictive measures are being taken, and the consequences are being felt by people in every state. in his speech, mr barroso said that one of the measures would be a tax on banking transactions. i welcome this measure because everyone must realize that the consequences of the crisis cannot be on the shoulders of the people and the banks are sharing the profits. the battle for europe is now underway the break-up of the eurozone would cause the collapse of the entire european economy. each member state must declare that it is serious about supporting the euro, that supporting greece and portugal is supporting the euro and the economies of the individual member states. but the european commission must also use all the instruments of growth in times of crisis. not wait, but invest, increase employment, and not give exemptions in the labor code for overtime up to 550 hours as it gave my country, today's right-wing government in slovakia with unemployment at 13%.
in writing the measures proposed to halt the eurozone crisis are as appropriate to the situation as a quarantine for influenza. instead of finally starting to demand government accountability for management, we propose centralization. in other words, we want to take responsibility from the governments of the member states step by step. first, the tax and deficit levels are fixed, then the budget chapters are added, and before we know it, our governments will be simply the offices of the brussels administration. and there would be no need to invent new rules if we could just start following the ones we have. the criteria for joining the euro area may be oversimplifying, but they have the advantage of being clear. let's start living up to them. if a country cannot meet its commitments when it joined the euro, it should leave the euro. as a doctor, i know that the more serious the threat of a disease, the more important it is to work with the people who are affected. the constant testing of new, unproven treatments instills mistrust in people at risk of infection. let's not invent new solutions without listening to the people and the national governments. these people ask us today, how did it get this far? let's be honest with them, and the solution will be right in front of us.
approximately 10 years after the gradual liberalisation of the electricity and natural gas markets, it is clear that the energy exchanges that have emerged and the otc trading contracts that have become virtually ubiquitous have never been protected against attempts to manipulate markets and trade using inside information. the liberalisation of energy markets was highlighted as a necessary measure to reduce the cost of electricity and gas to consumers. in fact, prices tended to rise and energy poverty became a concomitant phenomenon in the ongoing liberalisation. the proposed specific regulation of energy markets recognises the specific nature of these markets, while proposing that it be subject to the rules on market abuse and insider dealing applicable to financial markets. that is why i supported this proposal for a regulation.
the energy market integrity and transparency regulation provides a union legal framework to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the wholesale energy market. the objective of the liberalisation introduced was to create the conditions for the internal market by 2014. however, liberalisation has not achieved its objective, energy prices have not been uniformised, prices have increased and their volatility has increased. i believe that by screening out unfair practices we can achieve a stabilisation and uniformity of energy market prices, and thus put our end-users in a better position than they are today. however, wholesale contracts are easily bought and resold and are therefore more exposed to market manipulation. that is why we need more effective market surveillance. on the basis of the national registers, a union register of operators should be established, to which the relevant authorities should also have access. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
i supported the report, but let me highlight one important fact. the treaty of lisbon gave more powers to national parliaments. this subsidiarity element needs to be used more effectively. i therefore join in assessing the nature of this cooperation. if it proves to be ineffective, it should be reviewed. in particular, it is necessary to adapt the current time limits in order to allow national parliaments to exercise their right to express an opinion or to object to a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. because the opposite of subsidiarity is centralization, and the result of centralization is the loss of real democracy, of people's influence in solving problems that directly concern them. the principle of subsidiarity was also partly contradicted by our discussion this morning on the financial crisis and the future of the euro. many of our colleagues, including the president of the european commission, have been in favour of community decision-making at the expense of the european council.
the european union's 2020 strategy has the overarching objective of rescuing at least 20 million people from the threat of poverty and social exclusion by 2020. it gives new impetus to the fight against all forms of poverty and social exclusion, including homelessness. i therefore support member states to move towards the goal of eliminating street homelessness by 2015, including the requirement to develop an ambitious and integrated european union strategy, underpinned by national and regional strategies, with the long-term goal of eliminating homelessness within the framework of broader social inclusion. i also support the call for the european commission to set up a working group on a european union strategy on homelessness.
in writing − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers who are feeling the effects of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. pursuant to point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million. on 10 june 2011, the commission adopted a new draft decision to mobilise the egf in favour of austria in order to support the re-entry into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. this is the seventh application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 221 128 from the egf for austria. it concerns 167 workers (of whom 74 were affected by the aid) made redundant by at&s, a company specialising in the production of circuit boards located in the eastern part of upper styria, in the four-month reference period between 1 september 2009 and 31 december 2009. in accordance with the commission's assessment, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and the commission recommends to the budgetary authority to approve the applications.
in writing − the draft decision to mobilise the egf in favour of austria supports the re-entry into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the nature of the layoffs was unpredictable. it was triggered by the deteriorating financial and economic situation in 2008 and 2009, as well as by increasing pressure on purchasing prices, the weak us dollar against the euro and rising wages in european factories. it should be recalled that: the financial contribution from the egf does not replace measures for which companies are responsible under national legislation or collective agreements; the measures provide support to individual workers and are not used for the restructuring of companies or sectors; the above-mentioned measures eligible for funding do not receive assistance from other eu financial instruments. i would note that, with due regard to the interinstitutional agreement, it is important to ensure a rapid procedure for the adoption of decisions to mobilise the fund.
in writing − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers who are feeling the effects of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. pursuant to point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million. on 10 june 2011, the commission adopted a new draft decision to mobilise the egf in favour of austria in order to support the re-entry into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the application, egf/2010/007 at/steiermark and niederösterreich, was submitted to the commission on 9 march 2010 and supplemented by additional information up to 27 january 2011. one of the criteria used by the commission in its assessment was to assess the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in the world trade pattern or the financial crisis, which in this particular case are linked to the global decline in demand for metals as a result of the crisis and which had a particularly significant impact on metals exports from austria. in accordance with the commission's assessment, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and the commission recommends to the budgetary authority to approve the applications.
in writing − the application concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 8 284 908 from the egf for austria. it concerns 1 180 redundancies in 54 enterprises classified under nace revision 2 division 24 ('manufacture and processing of metals') operating in the austrian regions of styria and lower austria during the nine-month reference period from 1 april 2009 to 31 december 2009. the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in the world trade pattern or the financial crisis, which in this particular case are linked to the global decline in demand for metals as a result of the crisis and which had a particularly significant impact on the export of metals from austria, was assessed. according to eurostat and the austrian statistical office statistik austria, metal exports decreased by 38,6% in 2009 compared to the previous year. although the metal industry is generally subject to cyclical fluctuations, the rate and intensity of the downturn due to the crisis could not be foreseen and was a surprise for the sector when the forecasts spoke of real gdp growth.
in writing − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers who are feeling the effects of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. pursuant to point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million. the amount concerned shall be entered in the budget as provisional appropriations as soon as sufficient reserves and/or cancelled commitments have been determined. if the commission finds the application to be admissible, it shall submit to the budgetary authority a proposal to mobilise the fund together with a corresponding request for a transfer of funds. at the same time, a trialogue may be organised to reach an agreement on the use of the fund and the amounts requested. on 22 june 2011, the commission adopted a new draft decision to mobilise the egf. this concerns the mobilisation of the fund of eur 610 000 and covers technical assistance for the commission. this amount is intended to cover the costs of activities such as monitoring, information, knowledge-building, administrative and technical support, exchange of best practices between member states and evaluation. in the joint declaration adopted at the conciliation meeting on 17 july 2008, the european parliament, the council and the commission confirmed the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund, with due regard to the interinstitutional agreement.
in writing − the proposal concerns the mobilisation of a fund of eur 610 000 and covers technical assistance for the commission. in accordance with article 8 (1) of the legal basis, 0,35 % of the annual maximum amount of the egf may be provided each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. a maximum of eur 1,75 million may be allocated each year to cover the above needs linked to the use of the fund. in accordance with the provisions of article 12 (6) of the egf regulation, more than 25% of the maximum annual amount allocated to the egf will remain available to meet needs arising during the last four months of 2011.
in writing − if you have point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to be mobilised through the flexibility instrument, with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the corresponding headings of the financial framework. on 20 december 2010, the netherlands submitted an application egf/2010/029 nl/nl/zuid-holland and utrecht division 18 for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in 52 enterprises. this application was part of a set of four interrelated applications concerning redundancies in six different nuts ii regions in the netherlands, in undertakings active in the printing and reproduction of recorded media. after a thorough examination of this application, the commission has concluded, in accordance with article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, that the conditions for granting a financial contribution under this regulation are met. it is therefore appropriate that the budgetary authority approves the request.
in writing − the draft decision refers to the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the re-entry into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. it concerns 800 redundancies in 52 enterprises whose activity falls under the nace revision 2 classification in division 18 ('printing and reproduction of recorded media') in the dutch regions of south holland (nl33) and utrecht (nl31) at nuts ii level, in the nine-month reference period between 16 january and 16 october 2010. moreover, it was not possible to foresee the financial and economic crisis and its impact on the sector. according to the dutch authorities, the provinces of south holland and utrecht belong to the randstad area, which is the most densely populated area in the netherlands. the economic situation in both provinces deteriorated in 2009 and their economic growth was negative (-3,2%) compared to the previous year. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and we therefore recommended in the committee on budgets that parliament give its consent.
in writing point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to be mobilised through the flexibility instrument, with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the corresponding headings of the financial framework. on 20 december 2010, the netherlands submitted an application egf/2010/027 nl/noord-brabant division 18 for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in 14 enterprises whose activity falls within the nace revision 2 division 18 ('printing and reproduction of recorded media') in the dutch region of north brabant (nl41) at nuts ii level. the request was part of a set of four interrelated requests concerning redundancies in six different nuts ii regions in the netherlands in enterprises active in the printing and reproduction of recorded media. after a thorough examination of this application, the commission has concluded that the conditions for granting a financial contribution under this regulation are met.
in writing − the application concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 667 823 from the egf for the netherlands. it concerns 199 redundancies in 14 enterprises whose activity is classified under nace revision 2 division 18 ('printing and reproduction of recorded media') in the nuts ii region of noord-brabant (nl41) during the nine-month reference period between 16 january and 16 october 2010. these redundancies have a serious impact on employment and the local economy. the difficult economic and labour market situation in the noord-brabant region, as well as further redundancies in other nuts ii regions in the netherlands, which occurred for the same reason, during the same period and in the same nace revision 2 division, together fulfil the criteria of article 2 (c) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to be mobilised through the flexibility instrument, with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the corresponding headings of the financial framework. the rules applicable to the egf are laid down in regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund. on 20 december 2010, the netherlands submitted an application egf/2010/028 nl/overijssel division 18 for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in nine enterprises whose activities fall within the nace revision 2 division 18 ('printing and reproduction of recorded media') in the dutch region of overijssel (nl21) at nuts ii level. this application was part of a set of four interrelated applications concerning redundancies in six different nuts ii regions in the netherlands, in undertakings active in the printing and reproduction of recorded media. after a thorough examination of this application, the commission has concluded, in accordance with article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, that the conditions for granting a financial contribution under this regulation are met.
in writing − the application concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 718 140 from the egf for the netherlands. it concerns 214 workers made redundant in nine enterprises whose activity falls under nace revision 2 division 18 ('printing and reproduction of recorded media') in the nuts ii region of overijssel (nl21) during the nine-month reference period between 16 january and 16 october 2010. it was also not possible to foresee the financial and economic crisis and its impact on the sector. the financial contribution will be managed and controlled by the same bodies that manage and control european social fund funding in the netherlands. the agency for social affairs and employment shall be the intermediate body for the managing authority. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation.
in writing − if you have point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to be mobilised through the flexibility instrument, with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the corresponding headings of the financial framework. the rules applicable to the egf are laid down in regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund. on 20 december 2010, the netherlands submitted an application egf/2010/030 nl/nl/noord-holland and flevoland division 18 for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in 26 enterprises in the dutch nuts ii regions of north holland (nl32) and flevoland (nl23). the request submitted was part of a set of four interrelated requests concerning redundancies in six different nuts ii regions in the netherlands, in enterprises active in the printing and reproduction of recorded media business. after a thorough examination of this application, the commission has concluded, in accordance with article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, that the conditions for granting a financial contribution under this regulation are met and that it is appropriate for the budgetary authority to grant the application.
in writing − the application concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 849 086 from the egf for the netherlands. it concerns 551 redundancies in 26 enterprises whose activity falls under the nace revision 2 classification in division 18 ('printing and reproduction of recorded media') in the dutch regions of noord-holland (nl32) and flevoland (nl23) at nuts ii level, in the nine-month reference period between 16 january and 16 october 2010. the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation.
in writing − if you have in the context of the integration of national energy markets into the single european market, an eu framework is essential. unfair practices in wholesale energy markets affect price levels in such a way that they cannot fulfil their role of sending a clear signal to power plants, households and businesses regarding the optimal use of energy. instead, such practices can cause high price fluctuations, lead to higher energy prices for final consumers (citizens and businesses) and undermine the confidence of potential investors in energy infrastructure projects. transparency of energy markets is a necessary precondition for further integration of the eu energy market. remit therefore acts as a key instrument to achieve the goal set by the european council of completing the internal market by 2014. in order to avoid further liberalisation of energy markets, this regulation should not apply to very small market participants. this will avoid new market entrants facing an excessive burden when entering energy markets. also, market manipulation should be equally affected throughout the eu. i believe that, after implementing certain amendments proposed during the legislative process, this regulation should be able to fulfil its role and improve transparency, integrity and stability in the wholesale energy market.
in writing − unfair practices in wholesale energy markets affect price levels so that they cannot fulfil their role of sending a clear signal to power plants, households and businesses on the optimal use of energy, providing guidance for sound investment in energy infrastructure and promoting energy efficiency. instead, such practices may cause high price volatility, lead to higher energy prices for final consumers and undermine the confidence of potential investors in energy infrastructure projects. the transparency of energy markets is a necessary prerequisite for further integration of the eu energy market, which is expected to bring important benefits to consumers. the remit regulation therefore acts as a key instrument to achieve the objective set by the european council of completing the internal market by 2014. in order to avoid further liberalisation of energy markets, this regulation should not apply to very small market participants and therefore to transactions below a certain volume. this will avoid new market entrants facing an excessive burden when entering energy markets. market participants trading below a certain threshold should not be required to notify their transactions or be subject to licensing requirements (de minimis rule). the regulation should improve transparency, integrity and stability in the wholesale energy market. citizens have the right to know how and with what results public funds are allocated and spent. it is therefore necessary for the eu institutions to apply this principle in relation to the running of the institution and the policies and the financial resources allocated to their implementation at all levels.
in writing − if you have the importance of the rule of law for a democratic society and for the legitimacy of any government cannot be doubted. and while the eu is undoubtedly one of the parts of the world where objectivity, predictability and enforceability are at their highest, the report points to a number of not-to-be-missed shortcomings. in order to better address and target the issues related to the application of union law, the european commission has launched an eu pilot project. however, this was not fully satisfactory and it would therefore be appropriate to create an alternative of a mediation type where the citizen as the complainant would be the initiator. there have been a number of misunderstandings in the application of eu law, for example many petitions refer to the charter of fundamental rights even when the charter does not apply to the legal acts of a member state. citizens feel misinformed about the real scope of the charter. i therefore consider it essential that the commission, together with the member states, does everything in its power to clarify the scope and enforcement of the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing − the report focuses on the commission's essential role as guardian of the treaty and on the commission's power and duty to initiate infringement proceedings against a member state which has failed to fulfil an obligation under the treaty. the infringement procedure consists of two stages: the administrative (investigation) stage and the judicial stage before the court of justice. in the administrative phase, citizens (complainants) have a key role to play in ensuring compliance with union law on the ground. bringing europe closer to its citizens and embracing good governance are essentially interlinked areas. one area of direct interaction between europe and eu citizens is precisely the administrative phase of article 258 tfeu, in which citizens turn to the commission and parliament for assistance in accessing their european rights. it is therefore of the utmost importance that complainants are treated in accordance with the principles of good administration. the commission should propose 'procedural legislation' in the form of a regulation under the new legal basis of article 298 tfeu in order to strengthen citizens' rights and guarantee transparency.
written − the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, introduced a number of new legal bases to facilitate the implementation and enforcement of eu law, significantly changing the legal and regulatory environment at european level. in the european union, as in any democratic and legal state, individual measures must be specific, in accordance with the applicable legal norms and at the same time in accordance with the principle of predictability and the objective correctness of decisions, so that eu citizens and all economic actors can enjoy their rights under the legislation with confidence and effectively. it is therefore of the utmost importance that eu legislation is as transparent, understandable and accessible as possible. i believe that a considerable effort needs to be made in the area of transparency and the strengthening of good governance at european level, which remains very remote and inaccessible to the ordinary citizen of the eu. i therefore support and vote in favour of the recommendations set out in the annual report on the monitoring of the application of eu law and the call to the commission to propose new legislation to strengthen citizens' rights and guarantee transparency.
in writing − the lisbon agreement established a new constitutional framework for eu institutional transparency in the interests of an open, efficient and independent european administration by establishing an unwavering fundamental right of access to documents of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the treaty confers this right not only on eu citizens but also on any natural or legal person residing in a member state, and it should be applied in accordance with the general principles and limits (established with a view to protecting certain public or private interests) laid down in the rules adopted by the european parliament and the council. the general rule currently applies that access to legislative documents should be fully guaranteed, while the exceptions for non-legislative documents should be narrowed and the two approaches should not interfere with each other. transparency is an essential part of participatory democracy and complements the representative democracy on which the functioning of the eu is based, as expressly stated in articles 9 to 11 teu, allowing citizens to participate in the decision-making process and exercise public scrutiny, thus guaranteeing the legitimacy of the democratic political system. similarly, common rules for the classification of documents must be based on legislation. i also express my full support for free thinking within the bodies and the institution, and for the appropriate balance between transparency and data protection.
written − the lisbon agreement established a new constitutional framework for eu institutional transparency in the interests of an open, efficient and independent european administration by establishing a fundamental right of access to documents of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the treaty confers this right not only on eu citizens but also on any natural or legal person resident in a member state. transparency is the best way to prevent corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest and mismanagement. citizens have the right to know how and with what results public funds are allocated and spent. it is therefore necessary for the eu institutions to apply this principle in relation to the running of the institution and the policies and the financial resources allocated to their implementation at all levels.
written − the european union entered a new phase with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, which directly established a new constitutional framework for eu institutional transparency with a view to creating an open, efficient and independent european administration. by establishing an unwavering fundamental right of access to documents of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, participatory democracy enabling citizens to participate in the decision-making process, exercise public scrutiny and thus guarantee the legitimacy of the democratic political system becomes a reality. citizens can directly participate in the democratic process, control how public funds are spent and also directly fight corruption, which is linked precisely to the opacity of mechanisms and the closure of institutions. however, the reality of everyday life remains more mundane, and for the reasons mentioned above, i fully support the demands made in the access to documents report that all eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies act proactively and make available to the public on their websites, in addition to general activity documents, budgets and lists of closed public procurement contracts. in particular, i would like to stress the strong need to ensure transparency in the management of european funds, where it seems necessary to systematically publish the same categories of information on all beneficiaries of the european funds on a single website. such action will clearly strengthen citizens' confidence in the european union's actions and the sound management of its funds.
written − parliament approved the commission in february 2010 following an enhanced hearing procedure which ensured that the entire commission designated was assessed in an open, fair and consistent manner. nevertheless, the conclusion drawn from the approval procedure is that further adjustments are necessary and desirable in cooperation with the commission. it is necessary to revise the code of conduct for members of the commission and in particular its provisions concerning the financial statements of members of the commission in order to achieve the highest standard of governance in the european union. some of the main changes to the rules of procedure are as follows: the president of parliament may ask the president-elect of the commission to inform parliament of the division of responsibilities in the proposed college of commissioners in accordance with his political line; the president-elect of the commission presents the college of commissioners and its programme to parliament's deliberations, to which the president of the european council and the president of the council are invited; the coordinators of the committees are called by the committee chairman for the purpose of organising hearings of the appointed commissioners; the hearings are organised by the conference of presidents on the recommendation of the conference of committee chairs and the chairman and coordinators of each committee are responsible for the specific measures; three hours are set aside for each hearing and, if it appears during the course of the hearing that the appointed commissioner may need to be heard, a second and final hearing is held.
in writing − the code of conduct for members of the commission needs to be revised. specific provisions concerning the financial statements of the members of the commission, with a view to achieving the highest standard of governance in the european union. i therefore supported the amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament in the light of the amendments put to the vote.
in writing − international trade cannot be seen as either positive or negative in itself. it's a tool whose results depend on its use. i believe that international trade should not be just a tool for making profits and a platform for a competitive battle of nations, where the stronger often wins. it should also be a tool for development. i therefore think it is desirable that at the wto ministerial conference in december this view should be promoted not only by representatives of the so-called developing economies but also by representatives of the eu. the development must go to the development programme centre from dauhy (dda). in addition, the draft ep resolution from the committee on international trade also formulates the requirement of sustainable development. it is important to improve access to green goods and technologies and therefore to reduce or remove customs and non-customs barriers to green goods and services. if international trade develops towards fair and sustainable development, it will certainly have fewer critics.
in writing. − the doha round of negotiations in 2001 was launched with the aim of creating new trade opportunities, strengthening multilateral trade rules, addressing current imbalances in the trading system and harnessing trade for sustainable development, with a focus on the economic inclusion of developing countries, in particular the least developed countries. a multilateral system based on fairer and more objective rules can be a boon to fair and free trade, serving the development of all continents. the wto must play a key role in ensuring better governance of globalisation, a fairer sharing of its benefits and balanced economic growth. in view of the ongoing stalemate regarding the original structure and objectives of the wto, there is now more than ever a need to renew the discussion on the further functioning of the wto and the possible reform of the multilateral trading system. the commission must take the initiative to negotiate with parliament on a common vision of the structure of the future world trading system. the wto must address new global trade-related challenges such as food security, energy, sustainable development and trade assistance consistently and urgently, even if the dda is not closed.
in writing − if you have since 1 december 2009, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, national parliaments have played a more important role in ensuring compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. while a significant number of contributions and reasoned opinions have been received so far, the specific conditions of this innovative element, in particular the scope and content of the contributions, are still being developed and adapted. parliament has so far received more than 300 written submissions from national parliaments and it would be appropriate for it to take this opportunity to comment on the effective functioning of the systems in place in order to meet the requirements of this innovation, identify shortcomings and propose improvements. it is necessary to emphasise that, in the context of the transposition of directives, it is essential that tables of conformity are drawn up by the member states, and parliament should be innovative in designing incentives to contribute to this objective with each piece of legislation. it is essential that all institutions and member states take a genuine political leadership role in strengthening the smart regulation agenda, but the commission has a key role to play in keeping this issue at the top of the political agenda. i think it is appropriate that parliament should also explore ways of increasing the commitment to smart regulation, for example by using inter-committee meetings.
in writing − if you have the smart regulation communication further elaborates the presidency conclusions of the january 2007 european council on the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and the political guidelines for the future commission presented by the president of the commission, which propose to transform the lisbon strategy into an eu 2020 strategy. the aim of these documents was to highlight competitiveness and reduce administrative burden through smart regulation to make markets work for people, with a clear focus on public consultation, impact assessment, comitology and simplification of existing legislation. the programme aims to reduce the administrative burden by 25% by 2012. member states should be required to justify their decision to introduce in their national legislation more stringent requirements that go beyond the standards set in the eu legislation they implement. in the transposition of directives, the member states must draw up convergence tables, and parliament should be innovative in designing incentives to help achieve this goal with each piece of legislation. there is a need to keep existing legislation under review to determine whether it should be simplified or, where appropriate, repealed.
in writing − if you have the 2010 annual report aims to provide an overview of the activities of the committee on petitions, whose timetable depends on the citizens themselves exercising their right to petition the european parliament. it shall provide a series of statistical data on the number of petitions received, resolved or processed or data relating to the countries concerned or issues addressed. the report is complemented by other aspects such as relations with other european institutions and national and regional authorities and institutional exchanges directly affecting its work, and also examines the progress made in implementing individual recommendations. citizens turn to the european parliament with problems relating to the impact of various eu policies and legislation on their daily lives. these are mainly environmental, fundamental rights, justice and internal market issues. lastly, citizens use such a petition procedure to appeal against decisions of national authorities or to challenge decisions of national courts. the european commission has declared 2013 the european year of citizenship to promote the debate on european citizenship and to inform eu citizens about their rights. i am very pleased that the committee on petitions is joining this initiative and is offering citizens a direct link with the institutions, thus ensuring that their specific concerns are not left unheard.
written − with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009, the charter of fundamental rights became legally binding. as regards petitions received, fundamental rights are the second most frequent topic in petitions submitted. the incorporation of the charter into eu primary law on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity means that member states are responsible for respecting the principles of the charter of fundamental rights. this has created new responsibilities for the decision-making and executive institutions, as well as for the member states, in the application of eu law at national level. the provisions of the charter thus became directly enforceable by both european and national courts.
written − in december 2010, the european parliament adopted a written declaration on an eu homelessness strategy to support member states in developing effective national strategies that will be consistent with the 2010 joint report on social protection and social inclusion. the 2010 joint report states that member states should adopt integrated strategies on homelessness, focusing on key objectives such as preventing and reducing homelessness, improving the quality of services for the homeless and providing affordable housing. in 2010, the european consensus conference on homelessness called for a common eu homelessness strategy to monitor and coordinate developments in homelessness policies in the member states. last but not least, i believe that an integrated approach to tackling this issue should cover all relevant areas, taking into account the changing profiles of homeless people and in particular the impact of migration. reporting on strategies to combat homelessness could be included in the national strategic reports submitted under the open method of social coordination. the open method of coordination requires statistical data beyond monetary indicators, which even eu-silc does not provide. i therefore think it would be appropriate for the commission to ensure that eurostat collects comparable and reliable statistics on homelessness.
written − homelessness continues to affect people in all eu member states and is an unacceptable violation of human dignity. homelessness is one of the worst forms of poverty and deprivation. in several eu member states it has deepened in recent years. one of the objectives of the 2020 strategy is to save at least 20 million people from the threat of poverty and social exclusion. to achieve this, we need a strategic approach. member states should eliminate street homelessness by 2015. the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council needs to discuss the development of an eu homelessness strategy.
in writing − when the eu decided to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in 2008, it showed its commitment to combating the threat of climate change and set an example to the world by showing how this problem could be tackled. the agreement to reduce emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990 levels, together with the achievement of 20% renewable energy, was a key step for the eu's sustainable development and a clear signal to the rest of the world that the union was ready to take the necessary action. but these alone are not enough to meet the target of keeping global warming below 2°c compared to pre-industrial levels. at the same time, the eu economy has come under severe pressure from the crisis. businesses today are under pressure from falling demand and the challenge of finding sources of finance. by reducing the price of carbon emissions, the revenue to the national treasury from emissions trading could also be halved, thus increasing the pressure on public finances and limiting the potential additional source of public funds that could be used to combat climate change. the need to find the investments needed to achieve the 20% target for renewable energy in areas such as electricity, heating and transport remains.
in writing. − the objective of limiting the global annual average surface temperature increase to 2 oc (the so-called 2 oc target) has become an international goal since the cancún agreements. failure to meet this target will have huge environmental consequences and enormous economic costs and will increase the likelihood of reaching an endpoint where temperature levels begin to affect the release of co2 and ch4 from storage sites such as forests and permafrost and limit nature's ability to absorb carbon in the oceans. european climate policy must take into account all sources of warming and all mitigation options. the european commission must inform the european parliament of any action it takes in this area.
libya is at a crossroads right now. it's only been two weeks since the libyan companies' accounts were unfrozen, and the country can start moving on. this country is in the process of transitioning from dictatorship to democracy, and if all goes well. however, we know that such regime changes are very difficult and time-consuming. the war in iraq, for example, has still not produced any results, and the situation in the country is still very critical. i therefore consider it very important that we closely monitor the new developments in libya and do everything to avoid further bloodshed. i agree with mrs. ashton's statement. it is high time that the power of the country is transferred to the people. this situation is not only a challenge and a severe test for the people of this country, but also for the entire international community. so, we'll keep our fingers crossed.
libya is getting to a point after a long and brutal civil war where it finally doesn't need more weapons and military aid and has time to consolidate local conditions. libya was a rich country before the war, yet it will now be dependent on our help. the citizens of a war-torn country will need basic food, water, and, paradoxically, fuel. they will need to repair war-damaged homes, schools, hospitals, looted shops. they will need to rebuild public administration, provide citizens with internal security and gradually restore state power. the bloody period of uncertainty is thus followed by a difficult period of reconstruction, during which the libyan people will once again need a helping hand. in addition to the necessary material assistance aimed at providing the basic necessities of life for the citizens, assistance will also be needed to build a free democratic society and institutions that take responsibility for the honest and fair conduct of the libyan state. so we have to realize that our help to the libyan people will have to be long-term if we don't want to leave the future of this country in the hands of businessmen and adventurers.
in recent months, we have unfortunately witnessed the violent repression of the protests of the syrian people by a repressive state, a state apparatus that has already taken the lives of several thousand citizens, civilians. persecution, restrictions of freedom, arbitrary arrests, and above all loss of life are now commonplace in syria, casting complete doubt on the legitimacy of the regime of the current political leadership led by bashar al-assad. the european union should therefore lend a helping hand to civil society to create a functioning opposition, but one that would include all the minorities, including christians, that exist there, which would then be able to contribute to the peaceful and peaceful transition of this country to a democratic state under the rule of law. i believe that effective sanctions from the european union will also help to force the assad regime to abandon these atrocities.
unfortunately, unlike libya, syria is still a long way from a democratic transition. the arrogance of president assad's regime continues to prevent any success of the democratic opposition in this country. according to the un, the resistance of the current opposition in syria has cost the lives of 2,600 civilians! these numbers are growing all the time. last week alone, syrian police shot dead at least six protesters in the capital, damascus. the eu sanctions against syria are unfortunately running out of steam. whether it was sanctions against specific entities or the more severe ones against the oil industry. these sanctions have been criticized for having little impact. despite these unfavorable developments, we must not give up. the european union has only certain options for helping these countries with transition or stabilization, economic sanctions being one of them. i therefore agree with the deepening of sanctions, and at the same time i call on the member states to seek to involve other powers such as russia and china, since international cooperation on this country is still lacking.
ladies and gentlemen, of course, unless there is a real palestinian petition submitted to the un secretary general, we don't know exactly what it will contain and where it will go. there's something else that's important right now, and i'm saying this on the verge of the fact that we're all already dealing with the whole peace process as it should be. i think that the position and the strategy of the european union is important at this moment. it is not possible, and would be contrary to the spirit of the lisbon treaty, to leave this question to the individual member states and to avoid the position of the european union as a whole. that would be a mistake, because the european union is seen in the world, and especially in the arab world, as an arbiter of international legitimacy. the 'soft power' attribute gives the european union a great deal of credibility. therefore, mrs ashton and her office must make a great effort to achieve a unified european position on the palestinian claim. if we succeed, then we can certainly formulate our own european proposals to the un security council, but without a common position we will fail again.
after a brief period of relative calm, the middle east is beginning to feel more stifled again. the new egyptian administration doesn't feel very bound by the agreements that president mubarak made with israel. inspired by the successes of the arab spring, the palestinians decided to take the final step in legalizing their efforts to build an independent state, and appealed to the united nations to recognize their rights. in israel, a population that has been squeezed by high taxes for years to secure home defense is living a more dignified and peaceful life. and the israeli government doesn't want to see anything, doesn't want to hear anything and doesn't want to negotiate with anyone, instead it is taking more palestinian land. israel has never been a very popular country in the islamic world, and to have any illusions that this primitive christian island in the vast islamic sea, with its arrogant policy of seizing arab territory, will not sooner or later provoke open military conflict, would be naive. i therefore believe that in order to maintain peace and quiet in this area, we should use all our diplomatic means and capabilities to bring the direct participants to the negotiating table on the construction of two friendly independent states.
it is frustrating to see the long-running continuing stagnation of the middle east peace process. both the israeli and palestinian sides have diametrically different views on the form and content of these negotiations. however, these should continue to be in accordance with the requirements of both parties. although the chances of resuming negotiations seem to have diminished in the current situation, no one doubts the urgent need to make progress on a two-state solution to the conflict. but neither the legitimacy of the state of israel nor the right of the palestinians to achieve statehood must be called into question. the union and its diplomacy should now make every effort to restart and make the negotiations a success. i think that this will also be a good preparation for the union's diplomacy for the negotiations between serbia and kosovo, which it is reaching in its immediate neighbourhood.
corruption is a serious problem in a modern democratic society. although the union has made great efforts to develop measures and legislation to combat this adverse phenomenon, several member states are still delaying its implementation. at a time when representatives of the fair play alliance are also confirming that european anti-corruption legislation meets the necessary parameters, it is important to make some more efforts to enforce its application. we therefore need to focus more on monitoring mechanisms by independent experts or civil society organisations to contribute to the detection of suspected corruption and to the better use of existing regulations. we should also seek to speed up investigations or better protect whistleblowers. it would also be good to harmonise sanctions for corruption of foreign nationals across the union. i am convinced that only by calm, patient and systematic work can we succeed in this endeavor.
i believe that the european commission's anti-corruption package will become an effective tool in this fight. when four out of five citizens of the union see corruption as one of the most important problems, as several colleagues have already mentioned, then there is a need for decisive action. such a perception of reality requires a clear response, a renewed confidence in the transparency of the institutions and a strong political commitment on our part. the union must make the fight against corruption one of its political priorities towards the member states as well as towards other countries. this is particularly true for all the candidate countries: here the union must be tougher and demand concrete results. with future member countries, our priority must be to do as much as possible to crack down on corrupt practices before joining the union. candidate countries must have a clear position and performance in the implementation of national anti-corruption policies. the fight against corruption must therefore be an integral part of our internal as well as external policy.
in writing. corruption is one of the international threats that pose a challenge to the internal security of the union. the consequences of corruption often reach across or beyond the eu's borders. four out of five eu citizens consider corruption a serious problem in their country. corruption costs us €120 billion a year, or 1% of the european union's gdp. it undermines the rule of law, distorts the market and has contributed to the current economic crisis. all eu institutions, including eu agencies, as well as member states, should ensure greater transparency. the commission and eurojust should ensure a more efficient and faster exchange of documents and information between national courts in cases of corruption with a cross-border dimension. the commission shall ensure the political coordination of the anti-corruption mechanism.
mr president, recent un estimates show that there are 12 million people across the horn of africa who are still at risk of starvation. over 30 000 old people and children may have already died. the dadaab refugee camp in kenya hosts 400 000 somalis and could receive another 100 000 by the end of the year. the response to this situation is critical and much needed. it is also difficult. while trends of displacement and migration were already prevalent in somalia, the impact of conflict combined with drought has pushed this to even higher levels. it is also clear that the overall international donor response to this crisis has been slow and inadequate. according to the united nations, usd 1 billion is required to meet immediate needs. the eu should urgently respond to this situation, not only with humanitarian aid, but also through development and diplomatic means. it will be important to transfer humanitarian aid to development policies, particularly concerning agriculture. the eu should also press the african union, some of whose members showed only little interest in tackling the phenomenon, to take the crisis in the horn of africa much more seriously.
for the efd group the world radiocommunication conference of the international telecommunication union in february next year will discuss and adopt a number of amendments to the radiocommunication code that will affect the possibilities of meeting the objectives of the digital agenda for europe programme. the legitimate participants in the conference are the member states of the union, which naturally come to the conference with their own priorities and interests. the commission, which is not directly involved in the negotiations and decisions of the conference, is therefore seeking to find a way of promoting the union's objectives through participants from its member states. the union's interests are concentrated in particular on point 1.17 of the programme, which concerns the use of the spectrum from 790 to 862 mhz and is suitable for broadband wireless transmission. further to points 1.4 and 1.18 concerning the use of the galileo navigation system and its efficient use, and point 1.20 concerning high altitude balloons. in total, 25 items on the agenda of the conference concern the interests of the union. it is therefore essential that the commission finds an effective way of communicating and coordinating its interests with the authorised representatives of the member states who will negotiate and decide on the above-mentioned topics at the conference.
the events in libya and other arab states in the mediterranean have underlined the need for europe to define its foreign policy. so that we don't have our leaders taking pictures with a dictator one day and sending fighter jets against his regime the next. but history may have taught us that overthrowing a dictator is not democracy, and democratic elections do not guarantee freedom. let's learn from what's happening in iraq and egypt. let us offer our help and cooperation to libya, convince them of the importance of freedom, allocate the resources we could provide for the building of democratic institutions, send our experts to libya, but at the same time let us observe developments in the country, monitor the situation of religious freedom of christians and other minorities, because where freedom of belief is threatened, there is no respect for human dignity and human rights.
one of the ten commandments is "thou shalt not steal". corruption is also theft, the unjust enrichment of one's possessions. questioning judeo-christian tradition and morality makes the fight against corruption more difficult because we lose the imperative of conscience. there are only laws and regulations, where there is no longer any difference between good and evil. it's relative instead of absolute. i ask, how do we explain to children who are raised in a strictly relativistic moral environment that stealing is wrong? how will the educators in the pre-schools explain this to them, where we would prefer to send all the children in the union, according to the well-known barcelona criteria? when these children grow up, they will surely face, at least once, the dilemma of whether to act in their own self-interest, even if it would be to the detriment of some abstract society. they're not going to decide between right and wrong, they're just going to decide how big a risk of punishment there is. and that is a breeding ground for corruption.
corruption undermines the democratic and rule of law, leads to the misuse of public funds provided by taxpayers, erodes the trust of democratic institutions and destabilises the proper functioning of the market. corruption is clearly one of the most serious criminal activities that is easily taking on a cross-border dimension in the eu. in the field of anti-corruption policy, the european union therefore has not only a general right to act in accordance with the treaties of the european union, but also an obligation to take account of the opinion of almost 90% of european union citizens who demand that the eu tackle corruption more intensively. police and judicial cooperation should be strengthened in cases of corruption with a cross-border dimension, where the action of public authorities is still too cumbersome and time-consuming. joint action by member states and deepening cooperation with europol, eurojust and olaf in the investigation and prosecution of corruption-related offences will lead to more effective enforcement of existing anti-corruption legislation.
famine in the horn of africa region occurs every 10 years. the early warning system alerted us to the threat a year ago. but in 2009, the world food programme had to carry out its mission in somalia because of the islamist militia al-shabab, and even today humanitarian organizations have difficulty accessing the areas most at risk of famine. the main cause of the permanent crisis in this region is not climate change, nor is it stock trading. it is the lack of democracy, of legitimate and accountable governance, and of respect for human dignity. when people are starving, we have no choice but to help in any way we can. but if famine is to be avoided, the un and the european union must do more than call on donors to pay more. and i'm personally disappointed that the resolution doesn't mention it.
most noncommunicable diseases are related to the way we live. if we want to reduce the incidence of these diseases, we need information first. a coordinated international community approach and exchange of information on the causes of diseases and effective prevention is therefore in place. but the role of the state is not to dictate to its citizens how they should live. it's up to health insurance companies to find ways to reduce health risks, whether it's from smoking, alcohol, junk food, or lack of exercise. the combination of an increased premium for an unhealthy lifestyle and a reduction in premium for a healthy lifestyle is the most effective motivation. on the contrary, millions of euros of public funding and bans not only do not improve, but also deprive people of their freedom and responsibility. people can take care of themselves, let's not underestimate them.
in writing − the new concept of the european neighbourhood policy, which aims to give priority to those countries that are most effective in meeting the requirements, presents a great opportunity for the republic of moldova to become a success story of the eu's neighbourhood policy. the eastern partnership provides, within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, a meaningful framework for deepening relations, accelerating political association and promoting economic integration between the eu and the republic of moldova, which, by pursuing political and socio-economic reforms and facilitating eu-approaches, are linked by strong geographical, historical and cultural links. the active engagement of the republic of moldova and the commitment to common values and principles, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, including the rights of minorities, are essential for the progress of the process and the successful conclusion of the negotiations and the subsequent implementation of an association agreement that must be tailored to the country's needs and capabilities and will have a lasting impact on its development. it is necessary to ensure that this agreement is a comprehensive and forward-looking framework for the future development of relations with the republic of moldova in the coming years. i believe that it is appropriate to adopt clear criteria for the implementation of the association agreement and to provide for monitoring mechanisms, including the provision of regular reports to the european parliament.
in writing − the eu's engagement and ongoing negotiations with the republic of moldova must be based on a clear eu membership perspective. this should go hand in hand with the implementation of structural reforms. political stability in the country is essential for the continuation of the reform process. therefore, a dialogue with all political parties in the republic of moldova is necessary. the moldovan authorities should be encouraged and supported to meet the needs of the 34,5% of the population living in absolute or extreme poverty; eu assistance to the republic of moldova should better reflect this and its programmes should be reoriented accordingly. i expect the eu high level advisory group on the republic of moldova to keep the european parliament regularly informed of its activities.
in writing. − moldova has demonstrated stable and progressive cooperation in the negotiations on the association agreement and the various elements of cooperation. i personally agree with the acceleration of negotiations with a view to incorporating a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with moldova into the association agreement. the promotion of political and economic integration of moldova and the increase of productivity is important for foreign investors, with the ultimate aim of achieving a competitive market economy. in addition, moldova should demonstrate that it has the appropriate capabilities to adapt its legal and economic structures to the requirements of integration into the union's trade. in the future, the focus should be on addressing the factors that are holding back investment, such as legal and regulatory gaps in technical and health standards, and remaining tasks related to the financial system and competition law. however, progress has been made in the areas of company law, consumer protection, customs, economic dialogue, financial services, public financial management and energy cooperation. the visa dialogue should also be continued with a view to the early establishment of a visa-free regime that would further progress moldova's integration into the european union.
in writing. − on 1 september 2011, the eu lifted the asset freeze on 28 libyan entities, including oil companies, in order to provide funds to the interim government and the libyan people and to help restore the economy. it has provided more than eur 152 million in humanitarian assistance to support the needs of the libyan population, including access to clean water, medicines and health needs. the situation in the country is more than critical for the population and therefore there is a general expectation that gaddafi, his relatives or followers will be brought to justice in libya for all the crimes committed during the dictatorship. it is imperative that all countries, especially libya's neighbouring states, cooperate with the new libyan authorities and international justice. it is essential that a process of justice and national reconciliation is launched without delay and equally urgent is the need to deploy un human rights monitors, especially in areas where there is a greater presence of gaddafi supporters. it is also necessary to ensure the protection of the rights of thousands of sub-saharan african migrants who are persecuted solely because of the colour of their skin, and to ensure the protection and evacuation of migrants who are in the centres of the international organisation for migration or in any makeshift camps. the libyan people have made a revolution and are leading the country forward, and i am convinced that the eu must do everything possible to help libya and help achieve the rule of law.
in writing − if you have the credibility of the transitional national council government in libya will depend on its ability to address the most pressing issues. at the same time, it must create the conditions for democratic institutions. the tnc must initiate the most transparent process possible, involving all key stakeholders from all parts of the country, in order to build legitimacy and national consensus and thus avoid regional, ethnic and tribal divisions. otherwise, further violence could ensue. the tnc must ensure the involvement of the whole spectrum of libyan society and support women and minorities in the process of transition to democracy, in particular by encouraging their participation in civil society, the media, political parties and all types of political and economic decision-making bodies.
in writing, the syrian armed forces have been attacking syria's regions relentlessly and trying to suppress pro-democracy protests that began in mid-march of that year and were inspired by similar uprisings in egypt and tunisia. despite president bashar al-assad's offer of concessions, the government has also continued to crack down, and according to the un, some 2,200 civilians have been killed since the start of the conflict, thousands have been arrested, and more than 3,000 are still missing. the situation is escalating, the government's crackdown on protests has led to an increase in demands from the opposition, and opponents of the assad regime are calling for his removal. the syrian armed forces are inhumane and unlawful in their violation of fundamental rights and in their grave threat to public health, having in recent days even forcibly removed patients from hospitals and prevented doctors from accessing the wounded. the european union is therefore considering repressive measures in the form of sanctions against the oil sector. an oil embargo would severely restrict the flow of foreign funds into syria, as well as funding for the security apparatus and the rewards of loyal presidential loyalists.
in writing − if you have the increasing use of force against peaceful demonstrators and the brutal and systematic persecution of pro-democracy activists, human rights defenders and journalists must be strongly condemned. further violations of human rights by the syrian authorities, including mass arrests, extrajudicial killings, arbitrary detention, disappearances and torture, are unacceptable. the syrian regime has preferred the path of repression to fulfilling its promises of sweeping reforms. the current regime should relinquish power. cases of killings, arrests, arbitrary detention and alleged enforced disappearances and cases of torture by syrian security forces should be investigated in an independent and transparent manner. those who commit such acts must be held accountable. an independent international commission of inquiry should be sent to syria to investigate all allegations of violations of international law and human rights. the perpetrators must be held accountable for their actions. an immediate political process involving all democratic political actors and civil society organisations is needed, which could be the basis for a peaceful and irreversible transition to democracy.
in writing, − corruption is a particularly serious crime that crosses eu borders. article 67 tfeu lays down the obligation of the union to guarantee a high level of security, including the prevention and combating of crime and the approximation of criminal laws, and article 83 tfeu lists corruption as one of the particularly serious criminal offences with a cross-border dimension. it undermines the rule of law, leads to misuse of eu taxpayer funds and distorts the market, and has contributed to the current economic crisis. it also causes social harm, as it is used by organized criminal groups to commit other serious crimes, such as drug and human trafficking. the political will to fight all forms of corruption is often lacking even among political leaders and legislators, and the enforcement of anti-corruption laws is uneven and generally unsatisfactory across member states. i think it is essential that all eu institutions, including eu agencies, as well as member states, seek to ensure greater transparency by developing or improving existing codes of conduct and take measures to fight corruption. i believe it is justified for the commission to submit to parliament annual reports on the implementation of the eu's anti-corruption policy and also, whenever relevant and feasible, interim reports on specific problems related to the fight against corruption in the eu.
in writing − if you have all eu institutions, including eu agencies, as well as member states, should ensure greater transparency. they must develop and, where appropriate, improve existing codes of conduct. they should contain clear rules concerning at least conflicts of interest. they must take measures to prevent and combat corruption infiltrating politics and the media, inter alia, through increased transparency and oversight of funding and allocation of funds.
in writing − international organisations are increasing pressure to address the humanitarian crisis in east african countries. it is essential to take concrete action to alleviate the dire consequences of drought and famine in the horn of africa region. the region has been ravaged by the worst drought in 60 years, and officials there say a collective failure to end somalia's civil war has worsened the already dire situation. two regions of somalia have been officially declared famine since the second half of july, and un officials say that unless there is widespread aid, it is likely to spread to five or six more regions. tens of thousands of somalis have already died, and hundreds of thousands face hunger and drought. although the european commission, like some member states, has allocated increased aid to the stricken region, the main problems are the limited access of humanitarian workers to the most affected areas, as well as the costly and lengthy transportation. the un has therefore called on airlines to expedite food aid to the african region. i am deeply convinced that, also in view of the innumerable acutely malnourished populations, especially children, it is imperative to make efforts to provide the much-needed assistance as soon as possible.
in writing − if you have chronic noncommunicable diseases, such as cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic lung disease, and diabetes, which are largely preventable, kill 36 million people each year. this represents 63% of the 57 million deaths and is expected to take 52 million lives by 2030. europe, where noncommunicable diseases account for 86% of all deaths, bears the heaviest burden in this area: the share of cardiovascular disease in all deaths is 52%, cancer 19%, lung disease 4% and diabetes 2%. the crisis of noncommunicable diseases is a catastrophic social, health and economic burden. the world economic forum classifies non-communicable diseases as one of the most significant threats to economic development worldwide. these diseases pose a global threat and therefore require a global response. in may 2010, the united nations general assembly decided to convene a high-level summit on the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases on 19 and 20 september 2011 with the participation of heads of state and government. given that the eu bears the heaviest burden of non-communicable diseases in the world, it is desirable that the commission take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union takes a clear position at this summit and subsequently to seek a successful implementation of the summit outcomes in the union states.
in writing − eu member states are required to ensure that international agreements to which they are party in the context of the itu radio regulations comply with existing eu legislation, in particular with the relevant rules and principles of the eu regulatory framework for electronic communications. as highlighted in the digital agenda for europe, wireless broadband and in particular communication services are an important driver of growth and european competitiveness at global level. however, europe can only fully exploit the potential of the digital economy by creating a well-functioning digital internal market with a level playing field across europe. releasing additional spectrum bands in a harmonised manner at global and european level is an important way of alleviating capacity constraints on mobile networks and stimulating new services and economic growth. the eu must be unanimous in multilateral negotiations to promote its interests and to create global synergies and economies of scale in spectrum use, and it is desirable that member states fully embrace these policy orientations and actively promote and advocate them at wrc-12. i believe that the vulnerability of radio spectrum equipment to electronic attacks needs to be highlighted and that a coordinated global approach to enhancing information security is therefore essential.
in writing − if you have for europe, wireless broadband and communication services are an important engine of growth and european competitiveness at global level. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to support the implementation of the union's policy on digital rights and freedoms. releasing additional spectrum bands in a harmonised manner at global and european level is an important way of alleviating capacity constraints on mobile networks and stimulating new services and economic growth. any new measures should be transparent and should not distort competition or put new entrants to the telecommunications market at a disadvantage. the vulnerability of radio spectrum equipment to electronic attacks should be emphasised. this raises the need for a coordinated global approach to enhancing information security.
for the efd group i think that no one who has been watching the behavior of sudanese president omar al-bashir for a long time has any illusions that after the division of sudan into two states, peace and tranquility will reign in this region. the unresolved status of the border areas of abyei and south kordofan gives al-bashir reason to apply his peculiar way of caring for the local people, and current events in south kordofan, blue nile and abyei confirm that playing with fire and weapons is the sudanese president's favorite pastime. the fate and lives of the people of his country are clearly indifferent to him: anyone who does not show due loyalty to the sudanese ruler or sympathizes with the sudan people's liberation movement is subject to persecution, arrest, torture and extrajudicial execution. we must therefore continue, together with the african union, the united nations and our partners in the united states, to apply economic and diplomatic pressure on the al-bashir administration to fulfil its obligations and to stop violating international agreements and to allow the people of south kordofan, blue nile and abyei to live in peace.
for the efd group the fate of european swedish citizen dawito isaak, who has been detained for a long time without any legitimate judicial decision in eritrea, is a sad demonstration of our inability to effectively help people who are arbitrarily deprived of their civil and human rights by undemocratic, authoritarian regimes. in 2001, not only many eritreans but also several international journalists were jailed for criticizing president isaias afewerki. the information from former prison guards who say that more than half of the officials and journalists imprisoned during this period are already dead is particularly disturbing. it is therefore our duty to put pressure on the eritrean administration and to link the future of the european union's development aid to eritrea with the demand for the release of all political prisoners who are unlawfully detained in eritrean prisons and in many cases need acute medical care after long-term incarceration. even after 10 years of ignoring our protests by the eritrean government, we must continue our efforts. it's the only way we can finally succeed.
there is only one treaty between the european union and eritrea, and that is the cotonou agreement. for the period 2009-2013 alone, the union has allocated under this agreement almost eur 130 million for projects in eritrea. the cotonou agreement makes it clear that this partnership quote must actively promote the promotion of human rights, democratic processes, the consolidation of the rule of law and good governance end of quote. the deal was signed 11 years ago. dawit isaak, a citizen of a member state of the european union, has been detained without due process for 10 years. let me ask you a few questions. are these contracts even worth the paper they're written on? are countries like eritrea really trustworthy partners? and if not, isn't it time to look at the very foundations of our understanding of development aid? honest and responsible answers to these questions can at least provide us with a clue to the solution to this life tragedy.
for the efd group. with the publication of the green paper, the commission presented us with a vision for defining a new common strategic framework for research and innovation funding after 2013. the fact that the average investment of the european union countries in research, development and innovation is today only around 1.5% of gdp means that the european union is lagging far behind its strong economic partners in this area and that its policy in this area has not brought the expected improvement. it is therefore necessary to seek to reorganise existing systems and programmes to support research, development and innovation. the report makes a number of suggestions for such a reorganisation. one of them is the new three-tier model proposed by rapporteur marisa matias to eliminate inequalities in the access and participation of smes to the benefits of promoting development and innovation. further considerations need to be sought in simplifying and making aid delivery mechanisms more transparent so that excessive administrative burdens do not deter creative people from using the european union's available resources to accelerate exploration and exploitation. i believe that any subject which helps to improve the effectiveness of european research policy should be put into practice as soon as possible, because the level of the union's backwardness in this area compared to the developed world is critical and inexcusable.
in writing. research, development and innovation are the driving force behind job creation, the improvement of higher education or the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. for these reasons, research and development is one of the key focuses of the 2020 strategy. as a member of the committee on culture and education, i consider the funding of research and development to be of paramount importance. the us is a role model for the european union in research and development although the us is far ahead, we all know that the eu's aim is to close this gap. unfortunately, we haven't been very successful in recent years. if we are to remain competitive in today's globalised world, we must not underestimate this area. i therefore fully support the call for the creation of a pan-european fund to promote research cooperation, while also stressing the importance of the 3% of gdp target for research and development.
the growth of asian markets shows that the european union should pay much more attention to its trade policy in this area. eu trade with taiwan has increased more than eightfold over the past two decades and today the eu is one of taiwan's largest trading partners. but it's still a long way from fulfilling the potential that actually exists here. the eu should certainly pay more attention to relations with taiwan. especially in situations where his relations with the people's republic of china have improved. the eu has the potential to expand investment as well as trade with taiwan. this potential should be exploited, while gradually removing trade and investment barriers. the eu should therefore engage as soon as possible in discussions with taiwan on comprehensive economic cooperation and also start to consider a 'second generation' free trade agreement similar to the one we recently signed with the republic of korea. i am convinced that such an agreement would be very useful and would bring many benefits and advantages to both partners.
in writing. – in june of this year i was one of the participants in the eu-taiwan trade relations hearing. the conclusion at this hearing was unanimous: closer relations would clearly be beneficial to both sides. the only concern expressed by the commission was about china’s reaction. without going deeper into the political debate, i must say the deeds of china speak loud. they themselves concluded the economic cooperation framework agreement with taiwan in 2010. it is yet another sign that communist china is moving forward step by step. they understand that engagement and not isolation is the solution. other countries like singapore and new zealand are also moving forward with much more ambitious trade relations with taiwan and the eu should do the same. especially with the country that is friendly and shares our values the eu should be a leader and not a follower.
although the tourism sector is a significant and stable source of income for the countries of the european union, it is worth talking about the possibilities of increasing its potential. one of the effective and affordable measures that we can take to increase tourism revenues in the short term is, i think, a more flexible union visa policy. the experience of the period when my country did not apply visa restrictions to its eastern neighbours has shown us that the inhabitants of ukraine, russia and other countries in the region are very interested in learning about life in a developed europe. after the opening of the schengen border and the introduction of compulsory visas for visitors from the east, our tourism revenues have decreased very significantly. i am therefore convinced that a more open and flexible union visa policy towards countries with dynamic economic growth would bring a significant number of new customers to european companies operating in the tourism sector rather quickly.
in writing. other it also places the importance of tourism within the european union's competence following the ratification of the lisbon treaty. it is no coincidence that tourism is a sector that can have a positive impact on economic growth in the european union, stimulate job creation and contribute to development. this is why it is important to make every effort to consolidate european tourism and to maintain its competitiveness. in 2008, more than 370 million tourists visited eu countries, accounting for 40% of the world's tourist traffic. europe is the number one destination for holidaymakers. there is still a huge potential for tourism in europe, thanks to our excellent geographical position, which we must exploit. i think that we can offer in the whole of the eu something that is unique in the whole world. take medical tourism, for example. central europe has vast reserves of medicinal waters, and the region has some of the best health spas in the world. we need to act together to promote our history, the roots of our christian culture. we need to be able to show the gastronomy of our different regions. we must find a way to make europe more marketable. we need to promote support for tourism at eu level and to increase cooperation between member states. we must be able to respond and adapt to social change, because only then can we have confidence in the success of their tourism.
we are already discussing what the next budgetary period will be for the next seven years starting in 2014. i personally think that it's at this time that we should talk more about our young people, about our future generation. when we talk about the budget, we should certainly talk about programmes and their support for the next seven years, and not just mobility programmes and training programmes such as erasmus , but also other programmes that are important for young people. and that's the youth in action programme, which is helping them to get informal education, experience and maybe a different perspective than they would have in school. so i personally think that we should definitely support this programme for the next term and all its components as they are. and also, in particular, support for non-profit and non-governmental youth organisations, which are the very engines and the very things that help young people to gain experience, and it is actually the space that they gain, where they can realize themselves and can gain their own vision for the future. and that's why it's important that we support it.
it seems to me that several european union politicians have already found a cure for the problems that plague the member states today. the miracle drug should be the united states of europe. it is enough, they say, to take away the budgetary sovereignty of the member states, to unify tax rates and to put in place a completely new tax. pour billions into the stabilization mechanism from the budgets of eurozone members. put a new official minister of european finance at the head. not the united states, but the united wallets of europe. every decision made from the top is wrong. we've been to europe before, and we know how it ends. property is uncontrolled, people are unmotivated, and the economy we're trying to save is going down the drain. if we are really concerned with building a european identity, with genuine solidarity between nations, with peace and prosperity, let us discuss in a much wider context than just financial ones. let's define the values on which we want to build this whole thing. it's still on the table.
a little statistics: in 2009, more than 35 000 people died and more than 1 500 000 were injured in accidents on european roads. for every fatal accident, there are statistically four more accidents with severe permanent disability and ten accidents with severe injuries. 55% of fatal accidents occur on rural roads, followed by 36% in urban areas and 6% on motorways. and the social benefits, which are also paid for with our money and taxpayers' money, the reimbursements are up to 130 billion euros a year. this is something we cannot afford to ignore. i say this as a doctor, and i say this as a citizen of the european union who cares, or would like to care, to see things improve, especially in the rural areas.
road safety is a major challenge, especially with the constant increase in the number of vehicles on the roads. the accident rate is alarming. the 35,000 people i mentioned who lost their lives and 1.5 million injured in one year is too many. the proposed reductions in injuries and deaths that the european union has set for itself by 2020 are a goal that will not be easy to achieve, but protecting the lives of our fellow citizens is our most important task. member states have already implemented or have always implemented many proposals, such as the restriction on blood alcohol, where i support absolute zero tolerance. however, harmonisation is needed and in many cases is lacking. it is also important to promote and improve international cooperation and to fight road piracy together for greater safety and protection for all of us and our citizens.
every death is tragic and unnecessary, but death in a car accident is always an unexpected shock. even in the face of such reports, every effort must be made to further improve safety on europe's roads. the number of 35,000 deaths per year is absolutely astronomical, and we have managed to reduce that number in recent years. one tragic accident is too many, and i therefore very much appreciate the proposal of my colleague, who is calling on the commission to adopt the vision of zero mortality. the commission's commitment to halve road deaths within 10 years is ambitious and we will all be glad to see it fulfilled, but it is also ethically questionable in some ways. in the long run, we should try to avoid any unnecessary deaths. but not only regulations but also a change in road behavior will help us to do so. the problem is particularly with aggressive drivers. the commission should therefore consider measures, both restrictive and educational, to eliminate such behaviour.
i think we are all concerned about the continuing high number of people affected by the consequences of accidents and mishaps in road traffic. i therefore think it is right that the european parliament is also looking into the possibility of introducing new effective measures to reduce road transport risks. in addition to efforts to harmonise road signs and traffic regulations, we should also focus more on building safe road infrastructure. new state-of-the-art technologies such as the self-explanatory path and the double-edged sword should also be supported by european union funding. like vibrating guideways or smart traffic signage. furthermore, we should continue to improve the passive safety of motor vehicles and use the latest knowledge to mitigate the consequences of traffic collisions. it would also be good to encourage the spread of modern assistance systems such as the driver fatigue detector or the adaptive cruise control. the potential for improving road safety is considerable, it is just a matter of knowing how to use it effectively.
floods are among the most devastating natural events in terms of loss of life and property. the least developed countries are the most vulnerable to climate change and inadequate flood control. it is therefore important to adopt a multi-level flood strategy, especially in regions where unstable glacial lakes pose a critical flood threat. i agree with my fellow rapporteur who warns against relying on large dams to prevent flood damage, especially in the context of climate change. extreme rainfall is likely to increase the intensity and frequency of flash floods, which may reduce the safety level of dams. the commission notes that the project is not a 'competitive' project, but a 'competitive' project. in economic terms, the environmental and social costs of large dams have not been sufficiently taken into account.
food security in developing countries, particularly in parts of africa, should be seen as a challenge that needs to be addressed urgently. millions of people are starving and this cannot be acceptable to the european union. if we don't change this, we will be facing the threat of a global negative humanitarian and security impact. the international community's response to these problems has been slow and inadequate. eu member states need to fundamentally strengthen their participation in the transformation of humanitarian aid into aid and development policy. in particular, the development of agriculture and rural areas. in the long term, the key role will be to promote educational programmes with the widest possible access to all those who need it. the launch of these regular training programmes could serve as an effective means to help resolve this deadlock and prevent its recurrence.
food security in developing countries is literally a matter of life and death, as the current situation in africa shows. it is the union's moral duty to act and to choose the right way to help. i am in favour of european union aid being directed towards sustainable small-scale food production in order to increase food availability. agriculture continues to be the backbone of rural economies throughout the developing world. agricultural production systems need to be reworked and moved away from the current ones that are too dependent on external inputs and oil. much more attention needs to be paid to local and regional conditions. special attention should be paid to women and their needs, as they make up the majority of smallholder farmers. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the role of speculation in commodity markets, which contributes to the rise in food prices and thus to the reduction in food availability, with disastrous consequences. this is an urgent reason why the commission should focus on financial sector regulation.
food security in developing countries is a long-term problem. recurrent famines are wiping out the population of these countries, with women and children being the most affected. i consider that the measures to ensure basic food security in developing countries in the report are an important way of ensuring that the right of local people to own agricultural land is preserved. the massive land grabbing by foreign agricultural investors leads to the spread of poverty, displacement, starvation and uncontrolled migration of the local population. weak and corrupt governments thus deny their people the right to food, to drinking water, and to food. i therefore think it is worthwhile to resume the dialogue on international rules for the acquisition of arable land. the european union, through its humanitarian policy, has the moral right to raise such a subject with the international community.
in our work we must not forget the children who live abroad with their parents and whose parents work in the european institutions, in representative offices and so on, and who have the opportunity to study in european schools. these schools not only allow them to study in their mother tongue and not lose their connection with home, but also to study other european languages and receive a top-level european education in a multicultural and multilingual environment. i'm against cutting funding for these schools, but i'm more for finding new solutions. seeking alternative sources of funding, for example from the private sector, or taking in children of parents working in other international institutions. i also call on the member states to honour their commitment to financial support for european schools and the deployment of teachers to teach their mother tongue. i also call for 100% recognition of the european baccalaureate in all member states and i call for a uniform approach to the assessment of secondary school graduates by european universities without any discrimination. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cavad, and the representatives of the european commission for their excellent cooperation.
the european union has set up a system of european schools for the children of staff of the european institutions, which are intended to enable children to receive education in their mother tongue, even where the european institutions are located. as a result of the union's recruitment policy, the number of pupils in these schools is constantly increasing, which raises problems in securing a sufficient number of qualified teachers and lecturers. in the absence of an effective mechanism to enforce the commitments made by the member states in setting up these schools, some member states do not fill the places with their seconded teachers and school management has to improvise and replace the missing teachers with tutors who are not always adequately qualified. it would therefore be good to finalise the rules for the functioning of the european schools so that they are able to fulfil their mission responsibly, as their parents rightly expect. if the union needs to save money today, let it save money on museums or on trips to strasbourg, but not on the education of its children.
the european union is also characterised by the high mobility of its staff, who naturally move with their children. it is important for every person to receive education in his or her mother tongue, and european schools are unique in this respect and their work is worthwhile. it is also important and gratifying that the european schools serve as a good pedagogical model for other types of schools. i fully support the extension of the european schools model. it is one way of building a common european identity from an early age. in this sense, i would also like to advocate that the appropriate political, administrative and financial conditions be created for european schools and their expansion. an educated nation, an educated society - that means better jobs, a better quality of life, a higher standard of living. at the same time, it is important to ensure that pupils and students receive quality information in all types of schools, including information that will increase their european awareness and provide a good basis for shared european prosperity.
as the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment, i would like to thank you for the excellent cooperation with the rapporteur, who set himself the objective of examining cohesion policy from the point of view of how it could be improved, what are the obstacles that prevent better use and what are the circumstances that must be improved in any case so that the use, the absorption, the use of these funds is better and more efficient. i believe that the committee on employment is primarily responsible for the european social fund, which has a very important role to play in this crisis, especially when reducing unemployment is a priority. in this connection, i think the rapporteur rightly pointed out that there is a problem with co-financing, because, as a result of austerity measures, not only governments but also local businesses and local authorities have problems in producing the means needed for co-financing.
the draining of funds from the structural funds and the cohesion fund is still causing problems, but it has also caused problems in the past for a number of countries. the complexity of the rules and conditions to be met, as well as the number of errors, lead to unintended consequences. the time spent on control and management of the funds is disproportionate. and so we have to find the balance, the right balance, between simplifying rules and procedures and making them stable. another important point to focus on is the distinction between the different forms of non-fulfilment of the conditions for drawing on the funds. i would like to advocate that, for example, formal defects be distinguished according to their seriousness. the aim of fund managers should not be to punish but to seek ways to remedy, in cooperation with beneficiaries, any formal deficiencies due to inattention or lack of capacity. a separate chapter is devoted to the use of funds to address the roma problem. i would like to say that the preparation of such funds should be seen in a completely new light in this area.
an effective union cohesion policy is a prerequisite for the harmonious development of all regions of the union, i.e. it contributes to reducing economic, social and territorial disparities. the ability to draw funds, or in other words the effective use of the funds allocated from the structural funds and the cohesion fund, varies from region to region. unfortunately, the most disadvantaged regions, which are the ones most in need of funds, often lag behind in their absorption because they lack not only the minimum financial resources needed to co-finance but also the human resources and administrative support. this administrative and institutional capacity of the public sector at national, regional and local level must be targeted. competent authorities should also consider new procedures for upskilling their staff. in conclusion, many countries have shown the ability to draw on the eu funds much more effectively than in the past. my country is an example of this, where it draws much more efficiently than the previous government that was in power before.
in my country, we have a saying that bad luck doesn't come from the mountains, but from the people. earthquakes, major floods, fires and other disasters are also common in our european countries, and the rescue teams of the affected countries are often unable, especially in the early stages of disasters, to provide the necessary assistance in the event of major disasters, and international assistance often becomes a necessity. the commission's decision to merge the monitoring and information centre with the echo crisis centre and to create a single emergency response centre ready to coordinate european union crisis humanitarian aid operations at any time and in a continuous operation is therefore to be welcomed. the establishment of this institution as a central point for the rapid coordination of european material and financial assistance would further enhance the usefulness of this institution. i am convinced that with good preparedness of mechanisms, crisis and humanitarian aid teams, we can effectively save the lives and health of our people in emergency situations.
the fact that the european union reached 25% of global gdp in 2000, when the lisbon strategy was launched, while only 18% is projected in 2020, is a clear reason for serious reflection. a sober assessment of the current state of play, reflecting the reality of today's world economy, is urgently needed to develop robust short-, medium- and long-term strategies to revive the eu economy and make it competitive. i am convinced that the conclusion of trade agreements and the opening up of the european market must not come at the expense of the safety of eu consumers and the values on which the european union is founded. i therefore reiterate that all free trade agreements should include provisions on respect for fundamental human rights and, of course, minimum environmental and social standards.
the commission's trade communication is essentially a continuation of the 2006 global europe strategy. unfortunately, the strategy is also the result of european businesses' frustration with the deadlock in which the wto's doha round of negotiations has found themselves. as it is not working at multilateral level, the european union is trying to engage in bilateral agreements, especially with countries with fast-growing economies. however, this form of trade policy of the european union is bitterly ultra-liberal and focuses almost exclusively on economic development and economic motivation. all other non-market aspects such as sustainable development, social cohesion, human rights and so on are being marginalized. however, these aspects should be prioritised and cross-cutting for all european union policies, including trade policy. and this is not just true outside the union, unfortunately. within the union itself, there is an effort to undermine social and environmental standards. i would therefore appeal to the commission not to give in to pressure and to really prepare a strategy which respects our european values.
in writing. the eu 2020 strategy has ambitious and measurable objectives and a new trade policy for europe is an essential part of it. there are certain factors that affect trading that are important. i will give as an example the appropriate protection of intellectual property, in particular trademarks. counterfeiting and the import of counterfeit products contribute to job losses, undermine innovation and reduce the eu's competitiveness, but also pose a risk to the safety of consumer products. another important factor is the promotion of job growth, the granting of equal rights and tax advantages to domestic investors as to foreign investors, the expansion of free and fair trade in agricultural products and the mutual exchange of innovations and technologies not only between member states but also within the framework of trade relations with major powers such as china, russia, the usa and japan.
my question is for commissioner de gucht and it concerns eu trade with the western balkan countries, i mean those countries which are waiting either for a date to start accession negotiations or to get the status of a candidate country. my question is: does the commission have any plans – because strategy would be too strong a word – to increase or to strengthen trade with those countries in order to emphasise the positive aspects of european integration or the european perspective for those countries?
i will try to be very brief so that we can release the commissioner and the commissioner. we talked in the previous debate about trade policy and i think we can agree that any european union policy, including trade policy, should be coherent with our european values, but it should also have global objectives. and trade policy itself could and should be an effective tool to promote fair trade, which takes account of social, labour and environmental standards in addition to economic benefits. a year ago, we succeeded in parliament in pushing for a future common trade policy of the union that is more considerate of both people and the environment. in particular, every international trade agreement should contain clauses on transparency, corporate responsibility and the like. i have just one question for commissioner de gucht: does the commission have a specific, measurable objective in the europe 2020 strategy to assess progress on the impact of the european union's trade policy on human rights and social and labour standards, as well as on the environment?
as regards the structural funds and the cohesion fund, the slovak republic achieved a drawdown of over 99% in the first programming period 2004-06 totalling eur 1.2 billion. in the second programming period 2007-2013 at the end of june, the drawdown reached 18,5% or eur 2,1 billion in absolute terms. this assumes full use of the 2008 adjusted commitment, i.e. of the funds that can be used up by the end of this year. i agree that the problems in drawing on resources are mainly on the member states' side, especially in the excessive bureaucracy of project approval procedures and in the changes in national strategies in the event of changes of government.
hunger and malnutrition are the leading causes of death in developing countries. according to the latest estimates by the fao, the number of hungry people last year was as high as 925 million. the global food crisis is not only becoming a pressing humanitarian problem, but also exacerbating poverty and posing a threat to world peace and security. effective linking of humanitarian and development aid is becoming essential for a long-term solution to food security. the international community and all stakeholders need to demonstrate a real political will to ensure food security and stability and take additional steps towards meeting their international obligations. in addressing these issues, we must clearly ensure that there is no repeat of the disproportionate increase in food prices due to food commodity speculation, as was the case in 2008. and measures should also be taken to prevent competitive disruption of food production by so-called agri-food and agri-fuels.
the entry of third countries is significantly changing world trade. the share of european union and us exports in world exports in 1999 was 37%. in 2009, it was only 29%. the share of the bric countries (brazil, russia, india and china) increased from 9% to 20%. in 2015, 90% of global economic growth will be generated outside the european union. this shows the importance of developing and implementing a long-term strategy for the european union's external trade. in the european union, 18% or 36 million jobs depend on it. however, i also consider it important to further develop and strengthen the parameters of the internal market, as it can be the anchor of further economic growth in the european union.
in writing. − in line with the rabat plan, the council in 2005 mandated the commission to negotiate with a number of mediterranean countries to create the conditions for the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and fishery products. the palestinian authority was also included in the list. the negotiations started in may 2010 and were concluded in december 2010. the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters was signed in april 2011. it ensures duty-free (and almost quota-free) access for palestinian agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products imported into the european market. its ultimate objective is to help develop the palestinian economy and thus facilitate the export of palestinian products to the eu. i am convinced that this agreement will contribute to a certain extent to strengthening the palestinian economy, which is currently in crisis, and will help to cope with the situation in the palestinian territories, which is desperate because of extreme poverty and unemployment. the future of the region depends on improving economic development, and trade can therefore also serve as a development mechanism that contributes to poverty reduction and political stability.
in writing. − the situation in the palestinian territories is desperate because of extreme poverty and unemployment. the aim of the agreement is to help develop the palestinian economy and thus facilitate the export of palestinian products to the eu. the agreement provides for duty-free (and almost quota-free) access to the european market for palestinian agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products. several products of the same nature originating in the eu will have duty-free (but not quota-free) access to palestine, with certain exceptions. opening the european market directly to palestinian products is only the first step in building a palestinian state based on a two-state solution and within the framework of palestinian economic development. it is necessary to ensure that all actors involved in the process of economic development of palestine have the necessary means. that means farmers must have access to water, palestinians must have the right to obtain building permits in the jordan valley, etc. the situation is further complicated by the fact that it is very difficult for foreign investors to obtain a visa. the commission should present a detailed report on all these factors in order to avoid risks in the future.
in writing. − international air transport relations between member states and third countries are usually governed by bilateral air service agreements. the court of justice of the eu ruled in 2002 that the customary designation provisions contained in member states' bilateral air services agreements are contrary to eu law. they shall allow a third country to refuse, withdraw or suspend the authorisation or privileges of an air carrier which has been designated by a member state but which is not majority owned by that member state or its nationals and is not subject to effective control by that member state or its nationals. the commission negotiated an agreement replacing certain provisions in the 13 existing bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and the united mexican states. mexico is an important market for eu carriers, with some 2.5 million passengers and 90 000 tonnes of cargo in 2009. given the size and importance of the eu-mexico air transport market, the possibility of a more comprehensive air transport agreement should be explored, which could deepen mutual cooperation on air transport issues and expand opportunities and benefits for industry and consumers in both mexico and the eu. in the light of the above, i am therefore in favour of the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. - mexico is an important market for eu carriers, with some 2.5 million passengers a year and 90,000 tonnes of cargo. given the size and importance of the eu-mexico air transport market, the possibility of reaching a more comprehensive eu-mexico air transport agreement should be explored. such an agreement would deepen eu-mexico cooperation on air transport issues. the opportunities and benefits for industry and consumers in both mexico and the eu would be broadened. moreover, a comprehensive open airspace between the eu and the americas would be created, following the extensive agreements already concluded with the us, canada and, most recently, brazil. the aim is to provide all eu carriers with non-discriminatory access to air routes between the eu member state that has signed the bilateral agreement and mexico. the safety provisions in bilateral agreements will apply in cases where regulatory control of an air carrier is exercised by an eu member state other than the one that designated the air carrier. any practices distorting competition shall be prohibited. the agreement with mexico will restore a solid legal basis for eu-mexico relations in the field of air transport. this is an important first step in strengthening eu-mexico air transport relations.
in writing. − if you have on 19 december 2006, the council adopted regulation (ec) no 2027/2006 on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of cape verde. this agreement, which is applicable for a period of five years and automatically renewable unless terminated by either party, has been repealed and replaced by the first ec-cape verde agreement concluded in 1990. the current protocol expired on 31 august 2011. in order to allow eu vessels to carry out fishing activities before the procedures for the conclusion of the protocol are completed, article 15 of the new protocol provides for its application on a provisional basis as from 1 september 2011. cape verde is an island nation consisting of several islands lying in the eastern atlantic 375 miles west of senegal and mauritania, with a population of approximately 465,000. they have limited natural resources and drinking water resources, and they rank 121 out of 182 countries in the un human development index. however, in terms of political, economic and social development, they are considered to be one of the best-performing countries in africa. i therefore express my conviction that the new protocol will contribute to strengthening cape verde's capacity to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, help maintain continuity in the fishing zones in the west african region and bring a further dimension to the special partnership between the eu and cape verde.
in writing. − the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of cape verde expired on 31 august 2011. a new protocol covering a period of three years from 1 september 2011 was in the meantime agreed and initialled on 22 december 2010. its conclusion by the council was subject to the ep's prior consent. i therefore voted in favour of financial compensation to support the development of the republic of cape verde's fisheries sector policy, as well as fishing opportunities and advance payments and fees to vessel owners corresponding to the annual reference values.
in writing. − the european industry expects that by implementing the principles of reciprocity resulting from the memorandum, it will be able to take advantage of comparable opportunities to engage in cooperation activities with the us on the basis of transparency, mutual benefit, equality and fair treatment. the eu-us memorandum of cooperation provides a solid legal basis for in-depth technical and operational cooperation leading to the early development of common standards in civil aviation. it constitutes an effective binding legal instrument that promotes cooperation between the two parties in the technical field. it establishes a general framework allowing for the establishment of cooperation activities and provides both parties with comparable opportunities to participate in their research and development activities in any area of civil aviation. the proposed memorandum of cooperation with the usa also provides a solid and legally binding basis for the establishment of r&d cooperation activities, and has the potential to set international standards in aviation and provide wider market opportunities for european industry.
in writing. − the introduction of the euro has significantly increased the need for crossborder cash transport by road. within the euro area, banks, large retail chains and other cash handlers should be able to contract with a cash-in-transit (cit) company and use the cash services of the nearest branch of the national central bank or cit centre, even if they are located in another member state. the purpose of the proposal is to extend the scope of the draft regulation on the crossborder carriage of euro cash by road between euro area member states to the territory of a member state that is about to adopt the euro, as there will be an increased need for crossborder carriage of euro cash during the preparatory period for the changeover. the extension of the scope of the regulation should be automatic and should take effect from the date on which the council decides to abrogate the derogation for a member state from its participation in the euro area. the measures applied are proportionate and necessary to facilitate a smooth transition to the euro. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council shall apply to the territories of those member states which have adopted the euro as their single currency. the transport of euro cash is necessary in the run-up to the changeover, as the euro banknotes needed for the changeover are usually transported from existing euro area stocks and euro coins are often mined wholly or partly abroad.
in writing. − europe's overall investment in research, development and innovation does not match its status as the richest region in the world. it is true that the total volume of european investment has increased in recent years, but this has not made europe more cohesive. there are still big differences between member states, so i think the aim should be to get closer to the stronger countries and to intensify cooperation. to this end, cohesion funding must play a complementary role in the common framework, but it should continue to be considered as a separate item. the social dimension and impact of research and innovation must also be considered and examined, as we cannot act effectively if we do not know the target societies. the aim of this report is to attempt to reorganise existing systems and programmes and to enable new systems to be established in order to create a strategy that would benefit stakeholders as a whole. the relevant commitment is particularly important in the light of the current economic and social crisis. there are many differences in europe today. i therefore believe it is important to establish a basis for linking available resources in order to arrive at a framework that focuses on coherence in the relationships established between the sources of funding and the nature and scope of the projects.
in writing. - no common strategy has a chance of success if we change the 'rules of the game' every moment. investment in research, development and innovation cannot be considered as a certainty if access to available european funding remains threatened by inequalities and internal asymmetry. europe's overall investment in research, development and innovation does not match its status as the richest region in the world. large differences persist between member states. the most scientifically and technically advanced countries continue to benefit the most from europe-wide programmes. new member states and the economies of remote areas are at the bottom of the ranking. we must try to reorganise existing systems and programmes and allow new systems to be created in order to create a strategy that is beneficial for all stakeholders. research and innovation should be considered as absolutely essential to consolidate any strategy for growth that is to be sustainable and inclusive. the relevant commitment is particularly important in the light of the current economic and social crisis. we need the coherence and complexity of the european research and innovation system, covering every sphere from universities to the market, while allowing for more effective participation of citizens and actors traditionally excluded from such a process, transparency and clear rules.
in writing. − europe is one of the richest regions in the world, but this is not reflected in investment in research, development and innovation. there is no doubt that total investment has increased in recent years, but this has not led to greater cohesion between countries. there are still significant differences. one of the european union's ambitions is to reach 3% of its total investment in gdp by 2020. we need to ensure that better-placed member states are matched by others and that strengthening cooperation is the way forward. in order to make this happen, it is essential that the cohesion funds complement the common framework while maintaining their autonomy. research and innovation are essential tools for consolidating a strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth. i consider it very important that we try to shape the next package by gathering suggestions from stakeholders in the innovation and research sectors in preparation for the budgetary period after 2013. the existing instruments and programmes will therefore need to be reorganised in line with new instruments in order to develop an overall strategy favourable to each actor.
in writing. − the commission has initiated the publication of a green paper which seeks to define a common strategic framework for research funding after 2013. this framework combines european programmes specifically the framework programme for research (fp), the european institute of technology (eit) and the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip) with structural funds focused on research and innovation. this is an opportunity to strengthen the european research area while linking it to a clear strategy of convergence of member states. the report proposes to reorganise existing systems and programmes to address the challenges facing europe. at the same time, it creates the concept of a long-term stable model for funding research and innovation. this should consist of a new european bank for small and medium-sized enterprises, whose support should be complemented by a new financial instrument project bonds. i supported the report, but i expect that in the near future there will be clarification on whether project bonds are not a form of eu indebtedness that is explicitly prohibited by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − the first european school was founded in luxembourg in october 1953, and this educational experiment, bringing together children with different mother tongues, was quickly seen as a positive one. the pedagogical organisation of the european schools provides that education is provided in the pupils' mother tongue. each school has several language sections with the same subjects and content, and in order to promote a truly multicultural education, emphasis is placed on the use of foreign languages. the european schools were set up to ensure that the children of staff of the european institutions who have to work and live abroad in a different cultural environment have access to education in their mother tongue, so that these children can return to school in their country of origin at any time. however, more than 50 years after the first european school was set up, the concept has had to evolve and adapt to new economic and social requirements. however, it must continue to be an inspiring model for national school systems that value european citizenship and promote the development of mobility. the evaluation of the functioning of the european schools system is positive, as it opens up possibilities which encourage the creation of a framework for a european education system. i believe that it is desirable that the member states work not only to preserve this system but also to extend this unique and exceptional model of education in europe.
in writing. − if you have since the end of the 1990s, the use of the structural funds and the cohesion fund has been a major problem in the implementation of eu cohesion policy. several member states experienced difficulties in mobilising european funds, particularly shortly after accession, mainly as a result of the effects of the global economic downturn. as a result, project implementation problems have emerged, projected demand has changed and state and local public finances have been increasingly constrained. it has become more difficult to obtain sufficient resources to co-finance projects. other problems have been caused by delays in the preparation and implementation of eu and national regulations or related guidelines, as well as gaps or ambiguities in the rules. i think that some regulatory requirements need to be adapted in the light of the experience of their application. the rules on the structural funds and the cohesion fund are often complex. because of this, they are difficult to follow, and this causes errors. member states therefore spend an inordinate amount of time on error management and control. i believe that simplification of rules and procedures is needed to achieve higher absorption rates, reduce errors and increase efficiency. at the same time, a balance needs to be struck between simplifying rules and procedures and maintaining their stability. last but not least, multi-level governance and the partnership principle are important in the management of the structural funds and the cohesion fund.
in writing. − the ability to draw from the structural funds and the cohesion fund varies considerably between member states. a programme of cooperation between member states should be established with the aim of exchanging best practices. the aim of reaching the maximum possible amount of financial assistance requires the involvement of local and regional authorities at all stages of the process. problems were caused by frequent changes in the requirements of individual member states and by inconsistencies in european community guidelines, as the eu institutions changed their interpretation of the regulations during the financial perspective. the rotation of staff in the commission, but also in the member states, causes changes in the interpretation of certain provisions during the implementation of operational programmes. in order to achieve a higher rate of mobilisation, reduce errors and increase efficiency, rules and procedures need to be simplified. harmonisation of rules and procedures could lead to simplification of implementation systems.
in writing. − europe was hit by a number of major natural disasters last year, including widespread floods, violent storms and forest fires, and an ash cloud following the eruption of an icelandic volcano. outside europe, there have been several major disasters that have caused large numbers of casualties and had particularly devastating effects, notably the earthquake in haiti and the floods in pakistan, as well as the most devastating oil spill to date in the gulf of mexico following the explosion of the deepwater horizon oil rig. the world has just been struck by the tragic events in japan, which was hit by a combination of an intense earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster. in europe alone, disasters over the past 20 years have claimed almost 90 000 lives and caused economic damage worth eur 211 billion. some 90% of european citizens expect the eu to take more action to help their countries affected by disasters. i am of the opinion that the european response should be strengthened by identifying in advance the resources available in the member states to be made available on a voluntary basis for the purpose of the european civil protection mechanism. this would be a significant shift towards ex ante planning through the development of reference scenarios, mapping of member states' resources and contingency plans. it is also important that all member states respond together to disasters in a spirit of european solidarity.
in writing. - the number of disasters has increased fivefold in the last 35 years. disasters in europe have claimed nearly 90,000 lives, affected more than 29 million people and caused €211 billion in economic damage over the past 20 years. disaster response needs to be strengthened. this would mean moving from the current ad hoc crisis response towards ex ante planning through the development of reference scenarios, member states' resource mapping and contingency plans. the european civil protection mechanism is bureaucratic. the merger of the mic and the echo crisis centre, as well as the creation of a genuine 24-hour emergency response centre, which would decide, in agreement with the member states, on the resources to be used in the event of a disaster, in order to guarantee immediate and effective assistance to victims, should be welcomed. the commission should submit a proposal for an eu civil protection unit based on the emergency response centre. the use of resources available in the member states should be optimised for the general benefit. at the same time, duplication of structures, efforts or expenditure should be avoided.
in writing. − the purpose of this regulation is to simplify regulatory restrictions in order to allow for better circulation of euro banknotes and coins between the member states that have adopted the euro. the proposal will make it possible to facilitate the crossborder movement of cash in euro without prejudice to the different ways in which member states have chosen to regulate the movement of cash. member states must be able to choose from the five means of transport of banknotes and the two means of transport of coins provided for in the regulation. the regulation must contribute to strengthening the security requirements of both cash transport workers and the public. companies in the cross-border sector should be required to have sufficient minimum experience. the regulation does not cause any deterioration in the conditions of workers in the cash transport sector.
in writing. − export controls on dual-use items, i.e. goods that can be used for both civilian and military purposes, have been the subject of eu-level measures for some 15 years. the control of exports of dual-use items is of key importance in terms of non-proliferation of weapons, including weapons of mass destruction. the main eu instrument in the field of export controls is regulation (ec) no 428/2009 on dual-use items, which entered into force on 27 august 2009 and introduces several significant changes to the scope of export controls on dual-use items. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which clarifies the union's powers in international trade, provides a good opportunity to reaffirm the eu's role in these groupings and the role, powers and responsibilities of the european parliament within the eu's institutional decision-making framework. the eu regime for dual-use items should be more transparent and democratic. i believe that the full involvement of the european parliament through the implementation of the obligations arising from the treaty of lisbon and its common interpretation, agreed by the european parliament and the european commission on the basis of the new framework agreement, should be essential to achieve this objective.
in writing. − the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, which clarifies the eu's powers in international trade, provides a good opportunity to reaffirm the eu's role in these groupings and the role, powers and responsibilities of the european parliament within the eu's institutional decision-making framework. the eu regime for dual-use items should be more transparent and democratic. the full involvement of the european parliament through the implementation of the obligations arising from the treaty of lisbon and its common interpretation agreed by the european parliament and the european commission on the basis of the new framework agreement would be essential to achieve this objective.
in writing. − tourism, as the eu's third main socioeconomic activity, representing 10% of gdp and contributing 12% of total employment, is a very important sector because, in addition to focusing on the integration and development of less developed regions, it can reconcile growth with moral and sustainable development in the eu member states. it is also an important tool for strengthening, disseminating and promoting our image in the world. tourism has always been a part of community policies. in particular, since december 2009, the eu institutions have embarked on a new path of implementing the new competences guaranteed by the lisbon treaty, which gives the eu the power to complement and coordinate member states' action in the field of tourism. through its communication of last june, as well as the new priorities identified in the europe 2020 strategy, the european commission wants to promote a coordinated approach and set a framework for action to strengthen the competitiveness and capacity for sustainable growth of the sector. i believe it is important to follow closely the measures proposed by the commission and the proposals put forward by the european parliament and to monitor their actual implementation on a regular basis. it is appropriate to maintain the continuity of the proposed measures to allow the implementation of the new political strategy of the european union in the field of tourism.
in writing. − tourism accounts for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment. it focuses on the integration and development of less developed regions. it is an important tool for strengthening, disseminating and promoting our image in the world. the sector will be more competitive if it promotes diversification of supply and innovation, improves skills and encourages the extension of the tourist season. emphasis should be placed on education and training, investment in innovation and ict, and full access to the internet in all parts of the european union, including poorer countries. tourist visas are a must. we can attract millions of tourists from third countries. the infrastructure needs to be upgraded. it is important to counteract the trend towards seasonality in tourism. member states may apply for a permanent vat reduction for certain labour-intensive activities, including catering services.
in writing. − the importance of tourism is also a european union competence following the ratification of the lisbon treaty. it is no coincidence that tourism is a sector that can have a positive impact on economic growth in the european union, stimulate job creation and contribute to development. this is why it is important to make every effort to consolidate european tourism and to maintain its competitiveness. in 2008, more than 370 million tourists visited eu countries, accounting for 40% of the world's tourist traffic. europe is the number one destination for holidaymakers. there is still a huge potential for tourism in europe, thanks to our excellent geographical position, which we must exploit. i think that we can offer in the whole of the eu something that is unique in the whole world. take medical tourism, for example. central europe has vast reserves of medicinal waters, and the region has some of the best health spas in the world. we need to act together to promote our history, the roots of our christian culture. we need to be able to show the gastronomy of our different regions. we must find a way to make europe more marketable. we need to promote support for tourism at eu level and to increase cooperation between member states. we must be able to respond and adapt to social change, because only then can we have confidence in the success of their tourism.
in writing. - there is hardly any area of legal business in europe from which its citizens cannot or should not benefit. that's why i will always support every entrepreneur and every company, no matter the size, number of employees or annual turnover. however, i believe that my support as a member should be focused on creating a simple regulatory framework. to find the minimum number of rules that protect both the freedom to do business and consumer rights and the environment. part of the report that has been tabled deals with these rules and has my support. but i don't understand why the need for public resources to distort the market. every euro spent in this way encourages the entrepreneur to listen less to the voice of the customer and more to the voice of the european funds. subsidies do not solve the problem of european competitiveness, they create it.
, in writing. − european roads have become much safer in recent years. between 2001 and 2009, the number of road traffic fatalities in the eu fell by 36%, with the 3rd european road safety action programme playing a decisive role. yet in 2009 alone, 35,000 people died on european roads and 1.5 million were seriously injured, often with permanent disability. the social and economic costs of these road traffic accidents are enormous, the loss of life and the dramatic impact on the lives of those affected unspeakable. yet, society still largely rejects or denies the deadly dangers of road traffic. the tragedies that occur daily on europe's roads go largely unnoticed. shortly before the end of the 3rd action programme, the commission presented a communication explaining its strategic objectives for 2020, again centred on halving the number of road deaths compared to 2010. i agree with the commission that improving transport safety requires a coherent, holistic and integrated approach involving all road users and all stakeholders. we must strive to achieve the highest possible level of coordination, as well as to integrate the importance of road safety into all relevant policy areas.
in writing. − if you have between 2001 and 2009, the number of road traffic accident victims in the eu fell by 36%. this has saved 80,000 lives since 2001. in 2009, however, 35,000 people died on european roads and 1.5 million were seriously injured, often with permanent disability. the social and economic costs of these road traffic accidents are estimated at approximately eur 130 billion in 2009. the aim is to halve the number of road deaths in the european union (compared to 2010). the commission should therefore develop the proposed actions into a full-fledged action programme by the end of 2011.
in writing. − current estimates suggest that there are more than 50,000 large dams, 100,000 smaller dams and 1 million small dams worldwide. dams that fundamentally alter rivers and the use of natural resources have a significant impact on human communities, river and wetland ecosystems and biodiversity. i consider it essential to adopt a multi-layered flood strategy in regions where unstable glacial lakes pose a critical flood threat, further exacerbated by the effects of global warming on rainfall systems and the presence of black carbon, which is proven to accelerate glacial retreat. among other things, it is equally necessary to assess the construction of dams in terms of their impact on river flows, access rights to water and river resources, as well as whether the dam will require the liquidation of existing settlements, cause disturbance to the culture and livelihoods of local communities or lead to the depletion or degradation of environmental resources. any planning of dams should be evaluated on the basis of criteria such as fairness, efficiency, participatory decision-making, sustainability, accountability and the decision-making process concerning dams should, in my view, take full account of the concept of human rights.
in writing. − there are over 50,000 large dams, 100,000 smaller dams and 1 million smaller dams worldwide. no natural hazard has proved more devastating and cost more lives than the flood. the least developed countries are most at risk. i support the unep recommendations on how to deal with floods, which say that improved land management must be combined with improved water storage methods, based on traditional and more up-to-date scientific knowledge. key ecosystems from forests to wetlands need to be restored and rebuilt. this improves water supply and acts as a buffer zone against extreme weather events such as flooding. the eu must support the construction of infrastructure for dams. flood conditions are not static and require a flexible approach. the flood forecasting system needs to be improved, individual buildings need to be floodproofed and flood-retention areas and drainage systems need to be established.
in writing. − food insecurity is hampering the achievement of the mdgs, particularly in sub-saharan africa and the least developed countries. the september 2010 summit concluded that there was insufficient progress in reducing hunger. the european institutions and member states have not yet made the eradication of poverty, hunger and malnutrition a priority in their programmes or political strategies, despite their strong commitment to the promotion of the human right to food. i believe it is essential that the eu supports the un initiative on a basic level of social protection to help meet the basic food needs of the poor. as part of the renewed debate on food safety, the european commission adopted on 31 march 2010 a new communication on food safety, which should form the basis of a common framework of action for the eu and its member states. basic services (availability and access to public services) and social security payments (paid to poor and vulnerable people to improve food security and nutrition) are two main elements that help to implement a human rights-based approach. it is important that the principles of ensuring the right to food are included in trade agreements between the eu and third countries. if this right is to become a reality, an assessment of the impact of human rights on trade, development and the union's foreign policy will need to be taken into account.
in writing. − progress in reducing hunger is insufficient. the number of hungry people in 2010 was estimated at 925 million. the increase in food prices over the past few months has added to this number. the growing threat of food speculation, climate change, global land acquisition, agrofuels, loss of biodiversity, land degradation and pressure on water resources are contributing to a worsening food insecurity situation in the world. in order to achieve the millennium development goals by 2015, it will be crucial to review all eu strategies such as europe 2020, global europe, energy policy, the sustainable development strategy and the future of eu development cooperation.
in writing. − i am pleased that the report draws attention to the interconnectedness of two seemingly completely different european policies: development and agriculture. because the huge food subsidies for european union producers contribute significantly to food and agricultural labour shortages in developing countries in africa, asia and the caribbean. if you pay five times less for milk from the netherlands than you do for milk from a local producer in the gambia today, and for dutch potatoes at a quarter of the price a gambian farmer is able to deliver them to the market, something is wrong. these price differences are not the result of the higher productivity of the dutch producers. these are the results of european subsidies policy. first, we contribute from our taxes to our producers to push local producers out of the markets in developing countries, and then we give alms to those countries in the form of development aid. the result: we pay twice as much, and people in the gambia feel that their efforts are going nowhere anyway. there's a way to help developing countries quickly and effectively.
in writing. − the report was drawn up at the request of the conference of committee chairs to the committee on constitutional affairs, with a view to clarifying parliament's position on the meaning and legal effect of unilateral statements recorded in the minutes of council meetings. several committee chairs expressed concern at the increase in such declarations, especially in the context of the codecision procedure, where they could weaken the legal force and scope of adopted legislation and thus affect parliament's role as co-legislator. in that regard, it should be noted that the statements at issue come primarily from one or more member states, since the latter are responsible for transposing the legislation at national level. indeed, attempting to interpret that legislation in a way which might differ from the objective pursued by the mutual agreement of the two legislative bodies would undermine the necessary coherence in the application of union legislation. the case-law of the court of justice confirms that such unilateral statements are not to be relied upon in the interpretation of union law. for this purpose, statements may be used only if the wording of the relevant legislation refers to their content. as a co-legislator with the same status as the council, parliament should also be informed of the unilateral statements made by member states which are recorded in the minutes of council meetings, at all stages of the legislative procedure.
in writing. − in the co-decision procedure, unilateral statements recorded in the minutes of council meetings weaken the legal force of adopted legislation. in doing so, they can influence parliament's role as co-legislator. the declarations at issue come primarily from one or more member states, since the states are responsible for transposing the legislation at national level. the treaty of lisbon provides for the direct transmission of the minutes of the legislative part of council meetings to the member states and national parliaments, as amended by the council's rules of procedure. there is no mention of the european parliament. this gives the national parliaments an advantage over the european parliament, even though it is the council's co-legislator. unilateral statements by member states concerning legislation should not be published in the official journal of the european union. it is necessary to prevent references to unilateral declarations and to ensure that the council provides parliament with complete information during all stages of the legislative procedure.
in writing. − on 9 november, the commission presented a communication on the future trade strategy of the european union, entitled 'trade, growth and world affairs'. this communication is primarily a follow-up to the global europe strategy presented in 2006. however, previous evaluations of the strategies submitted show that many objectives have not yet been achieved. it is necessary for the parties concerned to examine the reasons why a given situation has arisen and to draw the necessary conclusions. the world has changed dramatically in recent years. world trade has experienced a boom, thanks to the world trade organization and many other initiatives. since the 1990s, it has increasingly included developing and developing countries, which are becoming the driving force of the world economy. this was particularly evident in the crisis years of 2008 and 2009, when developing countries in particular had a stabilising effect on the world economy. already today, 18% or 36 million jobs within the eu depend on foreign trade, and in 2015, 90% of global economic growth is projected to be generated outside the eu. i therefore think it is important that the commission should produce a forward-looking study, which reflects the current reality of the world economy and the current state of the eu, as well as the likely future developments. on this basis, a long-term strategy should be developed, taking full account of the needs of the union and its citizens.
in writing. − world trade has experienced a boom thanks to the world trade organisation and many multilateral and bilateral initiatives. nevertheless, the european union still reached 25% of global gdp in 2000, when the lisbon strategy was introduced, and is expected to reach only 18% in 2020. china and india accounted for only 10% of global gdp in 2000, but in 2020, various sources estimate a 25% share. such a change in itself shows that this must also be reflected in eu policies. population growth within the eu is lagging significantly behind, while population numbers, especially in developing countries, continue to rise sharply. today, 18% or 36 million jobs within the eu depend on foreign trade. in 2015, 90% of global economic growth is expected to be generated outside the european union. the commission should therefore develop as soon as possible a long-term external trade strategy that takes account of the eu's changing role in the world economy.
i am truly sorry that we have not been able to reach a common position within the european union. it is a great pity, because this was and still is an exceptional situation in which europe can play a significant role. i wonder why this unity of opinion has not been achieved on the palestinian demand for statehood. on the other hand, i would also like to say to several colleagues in the chamber that this is not a unilateral request or a unilateral recognition of palestine, because by recognizing this request, the sovereignty and legitimacy of the state of israel are de facto also recognized. when palestine is recognized in the 1967 borders. i would like to emphasize one more thing. we have heard several times that there are some countermeasures against palestine. i think the european union should take strong action against this, because it is not possible for a country which uses its natural right to apply for citizenship to be punished by sanctions or other measures that are being prepared against it.
the resolution of the israeli-palestinian conflict is one of the european union's strategic priorities. i support mrs ashton's efforts to see that the only solution to this conflict is to help create two independent and democratic states that are able to coexist and live in peace. of course, we must not forget any man who has lost his life fighting in this war, but of course this war must end soon. i believe that the beginning of this end can be the recognition of palestine as an independent state and the placing of both sides of the conflict on the same level. similarly, when we talk about north africa and the so-called arab spring, this one is responsible for more than just the two revolutions in egypt and tunisia and the still-unfinished civil war in libya, but a host of other protests, large and small, and of course, a huge number of human lives. it is very difficult to predict whether all the changes will have a positive impact. one thing is certain. these transformations will have a profound impact on future generations, not only in the affected regions but also in the surrounding areas.
understandably, we have recently focused more on the union's southern borders than on its eastern ones. but we must not forget our partners to the east of the european union. after the expansion in 2004 and 2007, we gained new neighbours. i believe that the six countries involved can prosper together, and so can the european union itself. the opportunity offered by the warsaw meeting should not be left unused. several observers have described 2011 as a key year for the partnership and decisive for its future. one of the priorities is, of course, the financial area. although the annual volume of financing is expected to increase by three quarters between 2008 and 2013, negotiations on financial support for the period 2014-2020 will be essential. this is a great challenge for the polish presidency in particular, but also for all of us. from a diplomatic and political point of view, it will also be important to address at the summit russia's role in the european union's policy towards the six former soviet union countries. russia itself is outside the initiative, but the partnership as such cannot in any way be understood as anti-russian activity. in conclusion, let me stress that an initiative of this type must not miss the opportunity in 2011 with the polish presidency and, on the other hand, it must be built up systematically and in the long term, also with the participation of all the member states of the union.
the warsaw summit is undoubtedly one of the most important events of the polish presidency. i believe it will also become a major milestone in the union's relations with its eastern partners. in a situation where the union has the ambition to play an important role in global politics, it should all the more clearly define its attitude towards its closest and strategic partners. it needs to send a clear signal that it is committed to playing a key role in this region. a genuine political partnership is needed if the eastern partnership is to succeed. it is about intensifying relations, taking clear decisions, promoting values and objectives that will lead to reforms and deepening cooperation with the european union. the summit provides an opportunity to set the agenda for these relations and their intensity for the next period, which may be decisive. otherwise, it is possible that the countries that are to be our partners will start to take an instrumental approach to relations with the union. they may be stuck somewhere between democratic reforms and the soviet past. it's not in our best interest. we must therefore respond decisively to issues such as visa liberalisation, the strengthening of democratic institutions and civil society, and last but not least, trade, economic cooperation and security. the union should therefore be drawing closer to these countries, while at the same time giving them the opportunity to draw closer to the union. i hope that the warsaw summit will be a success in this respect.
the upcoming warsaw summit offers hope for a revival of the eu's relations with its eastern partners. however, dynamism requires a clear articulation of the union's strategic interests and objectives, as well as a thorough strategy for achieving them more assertively. the eastern partnership should, in my view, be a useful means of achieving mutual benefit based on common interests and respect for one another's commitments. the warsaw summit should, in particular, bring more clarity to the negotiations on an association and free trade agreement with ukraine, highlighting the eu's interest in deepening economic and democratic reforms in this neighbouring country. we cannot remain indifferent to the way in which ex-prime minister tymoshenko is being treated in this neighbouring country, a country of hope, for example. the key areas to be discussed should include, in addition to economic and energy issues, investment projects, security and environmental issues. there are still many sensitive issues. we know very well that the issue of nagorno-karabakh has been unresolved for a long time on the european side, and i think that tensions are rising there. on the one hand, azerbaijan has certain demands, on the other hand, of course, armenia, which is supported by russia. we need to find a smart political solution.
the eastern partnership policy is a very good, mutually beneficial policy for the six eastern european countries and the eu. it's a policy that's a long-term process, and the results won't be immediate, but will take years to show. through this policy, the european union is helping these countries to pursue a democratic path and to improve the living standards of their citizens. this morning we were discussing a new trade policy for europe. the eastern partnership and the free trade agreements are also strengthening this area. the benefits of the single common market will allow more to be gained from the free movement of capital, goods, services and people. improved economic cooperation will certainly also make it possible to change the visa regime, develop tourism and promote security and stability in the eastern european states.
the eastern partnership summit in warsaw must be an opportunity to give a new impetus to the union's cooperation with the countries of the former soviet union. for the representatives of the eastern partnership countries, warsaw is a demonstration of what democratic change has brought to a country that was until recently in the same political bloc as them. although the poles' closest neighbours - belarus and ukraine - have political representatives whom we can rightly blame for democratic deficits in their governance, we must think above all of the citizens of these countries. they should get a clear signal from warsaw that the european union values them and is interested in friendly relations with them, regardless of the political leadership that governs their countries. greater openness to travel opportunities for young people, but also for other citizens from these countries, would certainly be a good signal for the future.
in writing. – ladies and gentlemen, the eastern partnership policy will deliver its first major success: the association agreement with ukraine. it is undoubtedly great news. but, when looking at the way this success was achieved, it is also raises some concerns for the future. the yanukovich government had to withstand enormous pressure from russia which was meant to deter kiev from a european path. this time around, we may have successfully snatched ukraine from russia’s embrace. but european integration cannot be this three-way strategic game. it is not a model of integration that is viable in the long run: because the closer our eastern partners come to the eu, the more confrontational the process will get. so, looking ahead, our challenge it to create a more benign geopolitical environment context for our eastern partners to move closer without being subject to such pressure and dilemmas. this, of course, means a more open and honest dialogue with russia. but it also implies coordinating and interlinking – strategically, as well as practically – our neighbourhood policy and our russia policy. this, i believe, is one of the lessons we should learn from the ukraine negotiations.
the republic of cyprus is part of the european union and acts accordingly. all her attitudes and actions are thoughtful and responsible. on the other hand, turkey has long been effectively occupying a large part of the island of cyprus, and therefore also parts of the territory of the european union. in this context, it is indeed comical that the european union should even allow the discussion of the restriction of the republic of cyprus' right to explore in its territorial waters, imposed by turkey. i understand that the turks would also like to profit from the wealth that is found in the coastal waters of cyprus, and therefore also the european union. but international law is clearly on the side of the republic of cyprus, and therefore the conquering impulses must be tamed calmly but firmly. i think that the justified public criticism of turkish military threats will find support from our partners in the united states and the international community. it's worth a try.
despite the enormous efforts of the council, the commission and the european parliament to stabilise the european monetary system, we cannot claim to have done very well. the mutual blame and the shifting of responsibility for the unfortunate situation to the council and the national governments, i think, is not entirely fair. just remember that you are asking the new member states, for example, to make new additional commitments on behalf of their citizens to stabilise the now insolvent states in a situation where the average pension in slovakia is less than 400 euros, which is almost four times less than in greece, which is in a difficult situation, and the average salary is around 800 euros, which is also several times less than in countries waiting for financial aid. mr president of the commission, if you are such a bigot, try to stand up to the slovak citizens and tell them that they should save even more and take on a lot of debt just to keep the richer, insolvent countries with incomes several times higher. i think that solidarity really cannot be invoked in this case... )
in writing. recently, we have been bombarded with disastrous news about the state of the euro area, the eu and european integration as such. i agree that the situation is critical. on the other hand, a little historical perspective can't hurt. the eu is still a successful project, which in its short life has managed to unite the european peoples and become one of the leaders of the global community. although the steps taken in the past may be criticized, i personally consider the eu project to be a great success of multilateralism and international cooperation. but i would also like to add that i am concerned about the scenarios that are being presented daily in relation to the situation in the euro area. i am personally ashamed that it is the slovak government that is holding back the adoption of measures to prevent the imminent outbreak of the next phase of the crisis. and so i would like to appeal to absolutely everyone involved in today's decision-making to put down their party shirts, to stop pursuing short-term political and national interests and to look at the eu as a whole in the context of its history. the eu's situation is good so far, but the prospects are unclear. everything depends on our decisions, and i hope that the next assessments of the state of the union will not have to conclude that it is declining or completely disintegrating. let's avoid the historical mistake.
mr president my fellow members of parliament! the coordination of economic policies is a sign of a strengthened faith in the european union as a community. this is the union's long-term response to the current financial, economic and confidence crisis. this oversight is the first to introduce general rule-based international macroprudential mechanisms and to confirm the commission by reverse majority voting, recognising that balance needs to be monitored internationally but managed at member state level. the compromise we bring today is a commitment to our shared values, our shared goals. i voted in favour of preserving the integrity of the union. the union thus guarantees the competitiveness of the member states and the union, internal convergence, a strong monetary union, a sustainable social market economy and prevents future crises. it ensures the well-being of our citizens, our societies, now and in the future. thank you for standing with us in this compromise. i would like to thank the polish and, in particular, the hungarian presidency for the work it has done to achieve this goal.
mr president, on 29 september 2010 the commission presented a legislative package aimed at strengthening economic governance in the eu and the euro area. the package consists of six proposals. four of these are on fiscal issues, including the reform of the stability and growth pact, while two new regulations relate to the detection and management of macroeconomic imbalances in the eu and the euro area. the latter two proposals contain new elements. the preventive part of these elements involves the regular assessment of the risk of imbalances based on a scoreboard of indicators and the carrying out of detailed country analyses. the corrective arm envisages that euro area member states that do not comply adequately with the recommendations applicable to them may be subject to excessive deficit procedures and ultimately to annual financial penalties. the imbalance adjustment system should include not only sanctions but also incentives. the fines collected from non-compliant member states should be used for the eu's long-term investment and employment objectives. i was happy to support the report.
in writing. − recent developments in the southern mediterranean are causing high migratory pressures in the region. in line with the european council conclusions of march 2011, the proposed reinforcement of eu actions under the external borders fund, the european return fund and the european refugee fund will allow to support the efforts of the member states most directly affected as well as to strengthen the capacity of frontex to carry out maritime surveillance in the mediterranean. the basic acts relating to the external borders fund, the european return fund and the european refugee fund provide that a certain percentage of their overall financial envelope is to be allocated to so-called 'community actions' to finance transnational actions or actions which are of interest to the community as a whole, in particular to deal with emergency situations requiring rapid action. the extraordinary scale of the current action in the southern mediterranean places an extra burden on the member states concerned and it is for this reason that the commission has proposed to increase the allocation for community action to the maximum volume laid down in the relevant basic acts. this maximisation of the allocation requires an increase in the budgetary appropriations for all three funds and a release of funds, in particular for italy, greece, malta and cyprus, in order to facilitate the management of the situation that has arisen.
in writing. − increasing the commitment appropriations for managing migration and refugee flows (through frontex, the external borders fund, the european return fund and the european refugee fund) is part of the eu's response to political developments in the southern mediterranean countries and in the wake of developments in north africa. the accompanying increase in payment appropriations shall be made possible by transfers from under-utilized payment appropriations.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. the request concerns 813 workers (of whom 325 are to be assisted) made redundant from six undertakings. the reduction in employment in the midtjylland region could not be foreseen due to the rapid development of the worldwide wind energy sector. the coordinated package of personalised services to be financed, including its compatibility with measures financed by the structural funds, includes clarification and reorientation measures (to set objectives and plans for workers), additional support for further education and training, an innovation laboratory (focusing on increasing the skills of workers to enable them to participate in the development of clean technology prototypes in today's societies), expert guidance, a qualification hotline, job search and mobility grants.
in writing. − the proposal concerns 778 workers made redundant from five enterprises operating in the regions of arnsberg and düsseldorf. the 778 redundancies will contribute to the high unemployment rate in the arnsberg and düsseldorf regions, which were already severely affected by the redundancies at nokia's bochum plant and the closure of the general motors plant. the coordinated package of personalised services to be financed, including its compatibility with measures financed by the structural funds, comprises mainly the following measures:• short-term jobsearch allowance for periods during which the redundant workers actively participate in active labour market measures;• training courses targeted at redundant workers whose qualifications are not recognised or are obsolete and industrial workers; • detailed advice on setting up a business advice and support in setting up and financing businesses;• workshops and partner groups specific advice in small groups of workers with similar work experience.
in writing. − the request concerns the dismissal of 974 workers (680 of whom are eligible for aid) in a footwear undertaking operating mainly in the municipality of santa maria da feira, but also in the neighbouring affected municipality of ovar, both of which are located in the two nuts ii regions santa maria da feira in the norte region and ovar in the centro region of portugal, in the four-month reference period between 19 may 2010 and 19 september 2010. like the two previous applications, it fulfils all the conditions for aid to be granted.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. for applications submitted from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. denmark submitted an application on 11 may 2010 to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in 6 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 28 ('manufacture of machinery and equipment') in the nuts ii region midtjylland (dk04), and supplemented it by additional information up to 21 march 2011. since the application complies with all the requirements, the commission proposes to mobilise eur 3 944 606. i am also of the opinion that the egf should be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for the application submitted by denmark.
in writing. − argentina has the right to restore its trade rights, which have been slightly distorted as a result of the eu's customs union enlargement with romania and bulgaria. the eu wants to abide by the rules of the multilateral trading system and to participate in the collective readiness to reach a comprehensive agreement in the multilateral round of development negotiations. eu enlargement is generally a benefit to wto members. if the acceding countries had higher tariffs than the eu, wto members gained. otherwise, when the acceding countries had lower duties than the eu and now have to raise them, the eu compensates the difference. so, in general, the benefits are going to the wto members.
in writing. − australia has the right to restore its trade rights, which have been slightly distorted as a result of the eu customs union enlargement with romania and bulgaria. the objective of a customs union or a free trade area should be to facilitate trade between the territories which constitute it, and not to create obstacles to trade between the other contracting parties and those territories. this agreement is another sign that the eu is willing to abide by the rules of the multilateral trading system and to participate in the collective readiness to reach a comprehensive agreement in the doha development round. the commission has rightly chosen the extension of the tariff quotas of the products concerned to australia as the compensation instrument, as this is the most targeted way of providing compensation to a country which has become eligible for compensation. although the commission has not carried out a proper impact assessment, research and stakeholder dialogue confirm that this agreement will not harm the eu's agricultural interests as it will restore australia's pre-existing rights.
in writing. − the commission has rightly chosen the extension of the tariff quotas for the new zealand products concerned as the compensation instrument, as this is the most targeted way of providing compensation to a country that deserves compensation. although the commission has not carried out a proper impact assessment, research and stakeholder dialogue confirm that this agreement will not harm the eu's agricultural interests as it will only restore new zealand's pre-existing rights. the eu and new zealand shall notify each other of the completion of their internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the agreement. it is to be hoped that our partner country will also end its internal procedures without delay so that producers can soon reap the benefits of market access.
in writing. − with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the eu has enlarged its customs union. as a result, the eu was obliged under wto rules to enter into negotiations with wto members, who have the right to negotiate within the framework of the commitments lists of the acceding members, with a view to agreeing on a compensatory settlement. the aim is to reach a mutually satisfactory settlement to compensate for the increase in the level of the duties being imposed. both sides have an interest in reaching an agreement. on 29 january 2007, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations under article xxiv:6 of gatt with countries entitled to compensation. the agreement with new zealand was initialled on 7 september 2010. the council approved the signing of the agreement on 11 april 2011. the agreement with new zealand was signed on 28 april 2011. in order to meet wto requirements, these agreements address two issues. the first is the compensation of higher duties which must be compensated, the second is the fact that the pre-accession tariff quota of bulgaria and romania must also be added to the existing eu tariff quota applied to all. i welcome the agreement with new zealand and i am of the opinion that the european parliament should give its consent. new zealand has the right to restore its trade rights, which have been slightly weakened as a result of the eu customs union enlargement to romania and bulgaria.
in writing. − the coordination of the economic policies of the member states within the eu should include adherence to the guiding principles of price stability, sound public finances and monetary conditions, and a sustainable balance of payments. the stability and growth pact aims at sound public finances as a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability and strong sustainable growth contributing to job creation. the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact requires member states to achieve and maintain a medium-term budgetary objective and to submit stability and convergence programmes to that end. the achievement of the medium-term budgetary objective of budgetary position should allow member states to create a safe-harbour with a 3% of gdp reference value in order to ensure rapid progress towards sustainability and to gain room for budgetary manoeuvre, in particular with regard to public investment needs. the obligation to achieve and maintain the medium-term budgetary objective must be implemented by defining prudent fiscal policy-making principles. in order to maintain compliance with the fiscal surveillance framework, a specific enforcement mechanism should be established for cases where there is a persistent and significant deviation from prudent fiscal policy-making. the references in regulation (ec) no 1466/97 need to take account of the new numbering of the articles in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and i therefore consider that this regulation should be amended accordingly.
in writing. − if you have the experience gained during the first decade of the functioning of the economic and monetary union, as well as the mistakes made during that period, indicate the need to improve the economic governance of the union, which should be based on greater responsibility for commonly agreed rules and policies by the individual member states and a stronger framework for the surveillance of national economic policies at union level. this regulation will make it possible to issue recommendations and require interest-bearing deposits from those member states that do not comply with their medium-term fiscal consolidation targets, even if their results were in line with the rules of the stability and growth pact (3% deficit, 60% debt). i did not support the regulation because: (1) it does not analyse how such economic policy management will contribute to the europe 2020 strategy; such rules will result in the objectives of long-term growth, modernisation and sustainability having to be subjected to short-term budgetary and market pressures; (2) the rules are not based on economic theory and will tie the hands of politicians; (3) the regulation favours cuts in spending over revenue growth; it thus hinders growth, employment and contributes to the dismantling of the state.
in writing. − a set of six legislative proposals, which should prevent situations like the current fiscal crisis from occurring in the future, should have been here from the start of the single currency. it is now clear that the procedures contained in these proposals should have been part of the stability and growth pact. it was an illusion, he said, to think that a common currency and a single market were compatible with maintaining national approaches to economic and budgetary policy. we are thus on the threshold of economic and fiscal union. but when slovakia joined the eurozone, no one mentioned the loss of sovereignty in the area of budgeting, its own tax and economic policy. therefore, it is not enough to take additional, more stringent measures, but if we want to avoid similar mistakes in the future, we should first of all admit that we have made a mistake. otherwise, it won't be long before we make the same mistake again. and the result will not be a united states of europe, but a kind of united wallets of europe paid by all, but with no one really responsible.
in writing. − the global economic and financial crisis has revealed and deepened the need for closer coordination and better surveillance of economic policies in the economic and monetary union. the existing instruments and methods of coordination and surveillance have enabled the eu to overcome a crisis that no member state could have overcome on its own. the european institutions and the member states have responded swiftly and continue to work together to recover from a crisis unprecedented in our generation. the member states whose currency is the euro have a particular interest in and responsibility for pursuing economic policies that promote the proper functioning of economic and monetary union and for avoiding policies that threaten it. the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in particular article 136 thereof, in conjunction with article 121 (6) thereof, allows for specific measures to be adopted in the euro area, going beyond the provisions applicable to all member states, in order to ensure the proper functioning of economic and monetary union. further sanctions are necessary to enhance the effectiveness of fiscal surveillance in the euro area and should provide incentives for prudent fiscal policy-making. this would allow the medium-term budgetary objective to be effectively achieved and maintained and ensure rapid progress towards sustainability, while maintaining room for budgetary manoeuvre, in particular in view of the need for public investment.
in writing. − the report specifies the nature of interest-free deposits, interest-bearing deposits and fines. i did not support it because if i do not support the surveillance regulation or the excessive deficit procedure, i cannot support the sanctions system attached to them either. moreover, compliance with the reformed stability and growth pact should not only be motivated by fines, but also positively. moreover, the right-wing majority omitted the commitment to introduce eurobonds from previous proposals.
in writing. − the commission's proposals to improve economic governance are of great importance for the future of the eu and economic growth, especially in the euro area. the experience gained during the first decade of economic and monetary union shows the need to improve the economic governance framework, which should be based on enhanced responsibility of the individual member states. i express my support for a comprehensive reform of the governance framework based on the union method, as well as a strong and independent commission to play a controlling and leading role in a new deeper and broader framework for economic policy surveillance. in the framework of the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances, emphasis must be placed on the early detection and prevention of potentially harmful macroeconomic imbalances. supervision shall not be based on a static and simplified framework. it is essential to ensure that the process is based on a thorough economic analysis through in-depth assessments examining a wide range of economic factors, while taking into account the specific circumstances of the countries. the management of economic affairs and national economic policy should be more a matter of common interest for the parties concerned. i therefore believe that there is a need to involve national parliaments more strongly at national and eu level. in addition, member states should put in place national rules and institutions that are consistent with the objectives of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. − the regulation defines a system of sanctions to effectively remedy excessive macroeconomic imbalances, as defined in the ferreira report. the amount of the fine shall be set at 0,1% of the gdp of the member state concerned. the main reservation to the final compromise is the possibility of penalising the member state with a deposit with interest before the sanction is imposed. i abstained because, despite the criticism of the report in question, it is closely linked to the implementation of the ferreira report, which i supported.
in writing. − the six legislative proposals adopted by the commission last september as part of a package to ensure the coherence of all legislative texts are of particular importance for the future of the eu and in particular the euro area. parliament intends to improve the commission's proposals in order to create a strong and coherent framework for the coming decades, guaranteeing compatibility between fiscal discipline and the objectives of economic growth and employment in the union and in all member states. only this condition will ensure the stability and sustainability of the union and the euro. this call comes at a particularly difficult time for the union and the euro area, which are facing tensions in growth, employment and internal divisions, which are being seriously exacerbated by a serious international crisis, but it is also an appropriate time to change, supplement and rectify the existing model in the light of past and current knowledge. this is the first time that parliament has co-decided with the council on macroeconomic developments and fiscal discipline in the union. strengthening the governance of economic affairs must go hand in hand with strengthening the democratic legitimacy of decisions taken, which requires closer and more timely involvement not only of the relevant stakeholders, but in particular of national parliaments and the european parliament, in the whole process, for the sustainable and balanced growth of the union as a whole. that is why i am in favour of a comprehensive reform of the governance framework based on the community (union) method.
in writing. − this regulation establishes a system for the detection and correction of macroeconomic imbalances. thanks to the good work of the rapporteur, ms ferreira, of the socialist group, the regulation contains important achievements, particularly in the area of social rights. it contains a comprehensive list of macroeconomic imbalances (including unemployment and real economy indicators) to be monitored and does not focus only on the originally proposed selective and politically motivated indicators (deficit, debt, etc.). it considers not only deficit countries but also chronically surplus countries as potential sources of imbalances.
in writing. − the coordination of the economic policies of the member states, as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, should be based on the main principles of price stability, sound public finances and monetary conditions, and a sustainable balance of payments. the stability and growth pact is based on sound public finances as a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability and strong sustainable growth supported by financial stability and conducive to job creation. it is necessary to improve the common framework for the management of economic affairs in line with the high level of integration achieved by the economies of the member states in the eu and in particular in the euro area. the rules on budgetary discipline need to be strengthened. in order to implement the existing excessive deficit procedure on the basis of the deficit and debt criteria, it is necessary to establish a numerical reference value to assess whether the government debt-to-gdp ratio is sufficiently reduced and approaching the reference value at a satisfactory pace. the references in regulation (ec) no 1467/97 should take into account the new numbering of the articles of the tfeu and the replacement of council regulation (ec) no 3625/93 by council regulation (ec) no 479/2009 of 25 may 2009 on the application of the protocol on the excessive deficit procedure annexed to the treaty establishing the european community. i therefore consider that regulation (ec) no 1467/97 should be amended accordingly.
in writing. − this regulation sets out recommendations, warnings and, ultimately, sanctions for those euro area member states that do not comply with the rules of the stability and growth pact on a 3% deficit and 60% debt ratio. the logic of the regulation is the same as that of the report on the preventive instrument of the pact (wortmann-kool), and therefore suffers from the same shortcomings. as a result, the objectives of long-term growth, modernisation and sustainability will have to be subject to short-term budgetary and market pressures. the regulation is based on a politically biased concept of budgetary consolidation, which favours cuts in expenditure over increases in budgetary revenue. in this way, it contributes to the dismantling of the state. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. − if you have it is necessary to build on the experience gained during the first decade of the functioning of economic and monetary union. recent economic developments have presented new challenges to the implementation of fiscal policy in the union and in particular have highlighted the need for uniform requirements as regards the rules and procedures establishing the budgetary frameworks of the member states. governments and sub-sectors of the general government of the member states shall maintain public accounting systems which include elements such as accounting, internal control, financial reporting and auditing. they should be distinguished from statistics relating to public financial performance based on statistical methodologies and from forecasts or budgetary measures relating to future public finances. the compilation of high-quality statistics comparable in all member states is subject to complete and reliable public accounting procedures for all sectors of general government. the availability of fiscal data is essential for the proper functioning of the union budgetary surveillance framework and for timely monitoring to allow rapid action to be taken in the event of an adverse budgetary situation. the key element in ensuring the quality of this data is, in my view, transparency, which must include regular availability.
in writing. − this council directive establishes rules on the budgetary frameworks of the member states in relation to compliance with their commitments to the eu, in particular in the area of deficit. it also introduces rules for the budgetary planning of the member states. the report does not consider the budget as an instrument to improve the economic situation of the member states. it sees debt reduction and a balanced budget as objectives in themselves, regardless of the possible use of fiscal policy to correct macroeconomic imbalances. the directive will reduce the capacity of national governments to respond to economic downturns. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. − respect for, and promotion and protection of, the universal value of human rights are part of the european union's ethical and legal acquis and one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity, yet many human rights violations related to sexual orientation and gender identity occur daily in the european union and in third countries. the eu and its member states should guarantee respect for human rights in their own policies and practices in order to strengthen the union's position in the unhcr and to make it credible. the union attaches particular importance to universal and indivisible human rights and includes the issue of sexual orientation and gender identity in its work at the united nations, in regional bodies and in some of its bilateral dialogues on human rights. despite these facts, however, a number of un human rights monitoring treaty bodies, special rapporteurs and agencies, as well as the un secretary-general and the un high commissioner for human rights, have expressed serious concern about the human rights violations faced by lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people worldwide. i therefore believe that the situation needs to be fully addressed and that the commission should develop a comprehensive plan to combat homophobia, transphobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity.
in writing. − there is a need to express unequivocally our concern at the many cases of human rights violations and widespread discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity both in the european union and in third countries. the eu aims to ensure that international human rights standards are fully applied regardless of an individual's sexual orientation and gender identity. eu member states have long supported the inclusion of sexual orientation and gender identity in the work of the human rights council and other un bodies. the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, including the right to bodily integrity, the right to private and family life, the right to freedom of opinion and expression, the right to freedom of assembly, the right to non-discrimination, the right to freedom of movement and the right to asylum, are still not always fully respected in the european union. member states and the commission should fully address these disparities. the commission should develop a comprehensive plan to combat homophobia, transphobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity.
in writing. − it is becoming a rule that such important topics as the eu's values at the un are put on the agenda of this parliament's plenary session only at the last moment. the motion for a resolution, which calls for the full promotion of the so-called new human rights, including sexual orientation and gender identity, in all aspects of eu foreign policy, was also available in only one language. only one speaker per political group could take the floor. so i can hardly help but feel that someone is trying to limit legitimate discussion of these issues. it's a shame, though. i am equally sorry if any expression of doubt about whether it is right at all costs to segregate groups of people from the wider community on the basis of their sexual orientation or identity is automatically labelled homophobia, transphobia or discrimination. human rights policy should be inclusive. that is why i voted against the motion.
it has been almost 20 years since the first united nations environmental conference, long enough for us to take a responsible look at what we have done in those years to make life on earth ecologically sustainable. it is also a long enough period for us to be able to set ourselves new tasks and objectives for the coming years. the upcoming un conference on sustainable development rio+20 is expected to focus on two main themes. the first will address the green economy in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication and the second institutional development and the sustainable development framework. this conference can be an important impetus for the transition to a global green economy. however, we must strive to provide effective mechanisms for the long-term transfer of its conclusions to everyday life. to secure the vision and objectives of the summit, a good implementation plan for the 'green' economy will need to be prepared, defining the scope of international, regional and national actions and measures, with measurable indicators and targets for progress achieved. to prepare such a plan a kind of green economy roadmap we should use the time that we still have until the rio+20 earth summit in june 2012.
mr president the rio+20 conference offers us a unique opportunity to take our complex and interdependent world further down the path of sustainable development. despite the experience and positive results of the past years, we see that significant implementation gaps and challenges remain. we need to build an economy that is capable of delivering growth and development, creating jobs and reducing inequalities. such an economy could be the green economy, which involves the use of low-carbon and resource-efficient solutions. however, to achieve this, we need to ensure a number of market and regulatory conditions. as we seek to reduce our carbon emissions more and more, i am opposed to the total exclusion of nuclear energy from our energy strategy and strongly support the deletion of article 46. at the moment, we have no other option to produce large amounts of energy with zero emissions. i believe that the rio+20 conference will be a defining opportunity to promote sustainable development. but we cannot be satisfied with a mere declaration of good faith; we need concrete measures.
the world's population is projected to grow to 9 billion by 2050, increasing demand for limited natural resources. and environmental problems may be deepened by the current style of economic development. but on the other hand, i am of the opinion that the planet is far from overpopulated, that it has enough energy resources and it may have enough food to keep people on this planet living with dignity. however, the need for global solidarity in promoting sustainable consumption and production requires enhanced cooperation between developed and developing countries and the establishment of a clear timetable for the fulfilment of the set political commitments. as far as the european union is concerned, sustainable development is a cross-cutting priority in all european union processes and policies. in conclusion, i would like to say that i do not agree with paragraph 46, which calls for the closure of all nuclear power plants and the non-building of new ones. that would lead to real energy problems.
the use of body scanners has undoubtedly its advantages and can contribute to the improvement of aviation safety. one of the positives is that they can detect not only metal objects. this is a plus in an age where potential weapons are made up of components made from different materials. however, the scanning method must be acceptable from the point of view of the protection of the privacy of the travelling public. only schematic images shall be available and any data thus obtained shall be destroyed immediately after the person has passed the security check. at the same time, it is equally important to exclude any radiation or effects that could endanger the health of passengers. the scanning itself should be carried out by random selection and any rejection should not automatically lead to suspicion. however, if the passenger refuses the check, he must undergo an alternative type of security check that guarantees the same level of security.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 by regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 with the main objective of showing solidarity and providing support to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the pattern of world trade. in view of the scale and rapid evolution of the financial and economic crisis, the commission has planned a revision of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 in its economic recovery plan for europe. the objective of this revision was to broaden the scope of the fund in the context of europe's response to the crisis and to transform it into a more effective instrument for intervention in times of crisis, in accordance with the fundamental principles of solidarity and social justice. given the expected continuation of the impact of the crisis causing the closure of companies and the need for fiscal consolidation in the member states, it appears that the extension of the crisis-related derogation under regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 is justified. it is therefore proposed to extend the validity of the temporary crisis-related derogation of 30 december 2011 until 31 december 2013, i.e. until the end of the period of application of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. it will allow member states to continue to submit applications for support from the egf to assist workers who are still made redundant as a result of the financial and economic crisis. regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 should therefore, in my view, be amended accordingly.
in writing. − if you have on the occasion of the 66th session of the united nations general assembly, palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas called for recognition of palestinian statehood and membership of the un. however, at an informal meeting on 2 and 3 september 2011 during the middle east peace process, the foreign ministers of the eu member states presented different positions and relevant diplomatic initiatives, not uniform, on the application of the palestinian authority for un membership. an equally sensitive issue in the israeli-palestinian conflict is the position of jerusalem. the right of the palestinians to self-determination and to a state is inalienable, but neither is the right of israel to exist within secure borders. achieving a just and lasting peace in the middle east, especially between israelis and palestinians, is of great importance. both parties should therefore immediately resume direct negotiations in order to reach a comprehensive agreement based on the existence of two democratic, sovereign and viable states, allowing their populations to live within secure and internationally recognised borders in accordance with the relevant un security council resolutions.
in writing. − in june 2012, all eyes will be on rio de janeiro, where heads of state and government will gather for the un conference on sustainable development, 20 years after the first 'earth summit'. rio+20 will build on the foundations of previous world summits: the un conference on the environment in stockholm (1972), the conference on environment and development (earth summit) in rio de janeiro (1992) and the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg (2002). it offers a unique opportunity to reaffirm political commitments to sustainable development. it can be the start of an accelerated, deep and global transition to a green economy - an economy that generates growth, creates jobs and eradicates poverty through investment in and protection of the natural capital on which the long-term survival of our planet depends. it could also kick-start the much-needed reform of international governance for sustainable development. we are still facing huge global environmental, economic and social challenges. rio+20 is a major opportunity to promote sustainable development worldwide. but it must not be just declarations of goodwill that result. a major milestone on the road to a green economy and better governance, rio+20 will only happen with concrete action. i believe that by working together, we should be able to ensure that concrete, effective actions are taken that have a real impact on the world.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to support measures for workers who have been most severely affected by the mass redundancies caused by globalisation or by the financial and economic crisis in the european union, in order to support their reintegration into the labour market. it was designed as a rapid intervention tool in the event of mass redundancies in order to prevent long-term unemployment in difficult labour market conditions. its original aim as a tool was to alleviate as quickly as possible the urgent and unforeseen problems in the labour market caused by the large number of redundancies, whether from large firms or small enterprises operating in a certain sector and a certain region. i also think it is important to stress that in the future, the main focus should be on sustainable labour market measures and our efforts should be to create the conditions for member states to use the egf to meet european objectives and to support new skills, including those related to new, sustainable, and high-quality 'green' jobs. similarly, the egf should continue to finance only those active labour market measures which are complementary to the measures under national legislation for mass redundancies and i think it would be appropriate for the commission to monitor the implementation process in more detail in order to ensure that the measures have the same beneficial effects on all workers.
in writing. − if you have the objective of the review was to broaden the scope of the egf in europe's response to the crisis and to transform it into a more timely and effective instrument for intervention in times of crisis, in line with the fundamental principles of solidarity and social justice. the amendments included, for example, reducing the number of redundancies required to apply for egf support from 1 000 to 500 workers and extending the period of implementation of measures supported by the egf from 12 to 24 months. a temporary derogation was introduced to: 1. extend the scope of the egf to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the financial and economic crisis; 2. increase the co-financing rate applicable to the egf from 50% to 65%. the temporary derogation is to expire on 30 december 2011. during the consultation carried out by the commission, member states indicated that without the temporary derogation, most of the applications related to the crisis could not be submitted, i.e. approximately 45 000 workers who have suffered the adverse effects of the economic and financial crisis would be left without support from the egf.
in writing. − the first protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco expired on 28 february 2011 and a new protocol was signed on 13 july 2011. however, its conclusion requires the consent of the european parliament before its final adoption by the council. however, the new protocol also extends to the waters off the coast of western sahara, which has been on the un list of non-self-governing territories since 1963. however, under international law, economic activities relating to the natural resources of a non-self-governing territory must be carried out for the benefit of the people living in that territory and in accordance with their wishes. and since it has not been demonstrated that the union financial contribution is used for the benefit of the people of western sahara, there is legal uncertainty as to whether the new protocol meets the requirements of international law as regards the socio-economic interests of the non-self-governing territory of western sahara and the exploitation of its natural resources. i therefore consider that the procedure of the european parliament, which decided to request an opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the protocol with the treaties and instructed its president to take the necessary steps to obtain such an opinion from the court of justice, is appropriate.
the slovak republic and the vote of the national council of the slovak republic have been mentioned many times in speeches, and i would first like to thank my colleague mr swoboda for perhaps being one of the few who have taken the trouble to really investigate the causes of what happened in slovakia last night in parliament, and unlike, for example, my colleague mr farage, who is no longer here, at least having an idea of how slovak parliamentarism works. i would like to ask you, mr swoboda, as an experienced european politician, a politician who has often addressed the critical positions of the slovak republic when it was necessary, how do you see the need for consensus on such fundamental european issues at the level of national parliaments?
my country's parliament yesterday refused to approve changes to the temporary eurovalues, expressing the desperate protest of its citizens against the absurdities coming from brussels. our citizens have no problem showing solidarity and helping friends in need. but they do not understand why they should spend their salary, which is the lowest in the euro area, to save, for example, the six million salary of the chairman of the board of directors of société générale. after all, they get the small salary only if their work produces the necessary profit for the employer. and they pay the employer for the damages they cause out of their own pocket. that is why i ask you, commissioner, why your friends in the troubled banks do not first pay out of their own pockets for the damage caused to the institutions and then, if that were not enough, why do not the insurance companies that covered the dubious investments pay the rest? our citizens do not understand this proposal because someone has set the contribution for slovakia so that a slovak citizen has to work about 300 hours to cover the guarantees, while a german, a belgian citizen has to work less than half. but we need to save the french, belgian or german banks, so why should my country's citizens work harder?
the european council meeting will certainly be dominated by the current crisis in the euro area. although the union faces many challenges and problems, the crisis is undoubtedly the greatest one precisely because of its ominous social dimension. we have already had a lot of discussion in this house about the concrete steps that need to be taken to solve it. i would therefore like to say that the european institutions clearly need to take a much more decisive stance. the gradual, deliberate and unanimous decision-making must find a new dimension precisely in times of crisis, otherwise collapse is imminent. we need new, workable, ambitious and realistic solutions common european solutions. this is the biggest, i think the most important task for the heads of state of the european union for the upcoming summit. because the october summit may give europe its last chance to solve the crisis.
in writing the government coalition in slovakia was unable to approve the european financial and stability mechanism despite the fact that the prime minister and the minister of finance repeatedly declared in brussels and in international forums that slovakia would approve the euro. the government coalition did not accept the invitation of the smer-social democracy party to negotiate support on the grounds that it had to do it alone. on the contrary, the prime minister linked the eurovision vote to a vote of confidence in the government. this eliminated opposition support altogether. smer-sd is a pro-european party that strongly supports the euro. the european parliament has voted in favour of the introduction of the euro, which smer-sd considers to be a necessary condition for the stability of the single currency and the continued existence of the european community.
in writing. i regret to note that the slovak parliament did not vote on the european aid package yesterday. this is not the first time that we have seen petty domestic interests put ahead of european values. the socialist and liberal political groups took advantage of the situation to overthrow the government rather than stand up for common european values. i would like to remind you that when the socialists were in government in slovakia when the treaty of lisbon was ratified, they could only have obtained its approval with the help of the opposition party, the hungarian coalition party, which i represent. the protection of european interests was now at stake, as was slovakia's political prestige and international credibility.
i am not from romania or bulgaria, but i would like to ask the honourable member, since i did not have the opportunity to ask the previous honourable member, mr van daalen, although i do not represent these two countries: where do you find the right to judge the member states of the european union which have fulfilled all the necessary conditions to become part of the schengen area, to address them in the european parliament in the way you do? are your countries better off compared to other eu member states that are in schengen?
real solutions based on facts must be promoted through political decisions. so, first, the facts. romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis when they joined the union in 2007. both countries have substantially reworked and reorganised their integrated border management systems and have significantly strengthened their institutional and legal frameworks. this is recognised in all schengen evaluation reports. both countries have fully implemented the schengen acquis, which is the only condition for their accession to the schengen area under the accession treaty and the current legal framework of the european union. finally, in its resolution adopted in june this year, parliament confirmed by a large majority that romania and bulgaria were ready to join. i therefore call on all member states to take a decision to extend the schengen area to these two countries solely on the basis of the schengen acquis and the schengen procedures currently in force. i am of the opinion that member states already in the process of joining the schengen area cannot be subject to additional criteria. it is therefore appropriate for the competent authorities to take the necessary measures to allow romania and bulgaria to accede to the schengen area, as they have fulfilled the list of requirements which were given to those countries when they signed the treaty of accession.
the schengen area is one of the most tangible manifestations of freedom of movement in the european union for citizens. romania and bulgaria, as member states, have the right to become members of this area as any other country of the union. their entry standards and criteria must be the same as for any other country. the latest assessment by the schengen evaluation working group showed that both countries fulfil the criteria for schengen entry and have implemented the schengen acquis in all seven required areas. as with any other measure, the principles and values on which the union is founded must be respected. equal access to the rights and obligations of individual member states and the facilitation of the free movement of persons is one of them. the member states and the european institutions should be aware that the use of double meters is inadmissible in this situation. i therefore call on the council and the polish presidency to start addressing this issue as soon as possible.
in writing i would like to express my deep concern at the low level of solidarity with bulgaria and romania. just like in sports, in business or politics, the rules don't change during the game. these countries have fulfilled the necessary requirements of the accession treaties and are ready to join the common schengen area, as already demonstrated by the report adopted in june. i therefore share the same position as most of my colleagues across the political spectrum: a double standard for old and new member states is not acceptable. such interference with the rules would increase mistrust in the schengen acquis and at the same time create a dangerous precedent that could have a profound impact on future member states. i would therefore like to express my support for romania and bulgaria and at the same time call on the countries blocking their entry into schengen to reconsider their position.
egypt will not be free until christians and muslims have equal rights. we must condemn in the strongest terms the violence that took place in tahrir square just a few days ago. let's be consistent here. lady ashton, our diplomats must remind our egyptian partners at every opportunity that europe will only cooperate with a truly free egypt. but at the same time, we will highlight the efforts of the pope, shenouda iii and the grand imam ahmed al-tayeb to bring about reconciliation and to start a religious dialogue. national reconciliation between christians and muslims is the path to real freedom not only in egypt but also in other countries of the arab spring. cross-and- crescent badges with the words "i am egyptian" underneath them appeared on the streets of cairo. it gives hope, and we support it.
there have been several statements recently on the situation in yemen, and the situation is truly dramatic. the humanitarian crisis, the problems of refugees and displaced persons, but especially the problems of malnutrition, should attract even more attention in our ranks. it is clear to everyone that the union is now focusing on resolving the eurozone crisis, but we cannot forget our international commitments either and we must be consistent with them. on monday 10 october, in luxembourg, the foreign ministers meeting in the council adopted conclusions on the situation in yemen which are basically correct as regards the description of the situation. however, the conclusions are vague on the last, fifth, point, which deals with the union's response to the humanitarian and political crisis in yemen. it's not enough to just react to current events. it is not enough to call on all parties concerned in yemen to do everything possible for a peaceful political transformation. it is not enough to express outrage at the unacceptable humanitarian situation in the country. the union must have the ambition to take more decisive action to end the yemen drama. and that, madam vice-president, is true of the other countries we are talking about in this debate today.
the current developments in our ukrainian neighbours give us grounds once again to discuss whether we can explain our views to our friends in a sufficiently comprehensible way and convince them that not all the steps they take in their political quarrels can be considered compatible with our democratic customs. however, the trial of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko is also leading to the questioning of long-term contracts for the transport of gas from russia to the countries of the european union. anyone who remembers the end of 2009, when several countries were without heat in the middle of winter, rightly feels that our dialogue with the ukrainian and russian sides should be much more intensive in this period. and that is mainly so that we do not again become victims of the long-running trade disputes between our two eastern partners, ukraine and russia. in addition to appeals to mr yanukovych for decency and democracy in politics, i think we should also appeal for decency and fairness in our contractual relations with both russia and ukraine.
in writing. the current political situation in ukraine - the conviction of former prime minister and opposition leader ms tymošenko, her seven-year prison sentence, a three-year ban from holding public office and an obligation to make good the losses of naftogaz - clearly indicates the urgent need to modernise the obsolete judiciary in ukraine. despite the fact that the other opposition leader has made serious mistakes that have damaged ukraine's economy, the european union must be prepared to provide assistance and take steps that would contribute to the modernisation of the legal system and strengthen ukraine's status as a state governed by the rule of law. in fact, even in the case of this judicial process, doubts arise as to its transparency and impartiality. the situation in ukraine must not be taken lightly and, ultimately, we do not take it lightly in the european parliament. and just as it is important to make an effort to avoid similar situations in the future, it is also important to ensure a fair trial, not a politically motivated one, through a modernised impartial judiciary. it is essential to work together to create the conditions for strengthening ukraine's european integration process on the basis of common values, respect for the law and the application of european democratic standards.
at last week's conference on the application of the charter of fundamental rights, i also said in my contribution that i see the european union as a union of fundamental rights. the right of citizens of romania and bulgaria to enter the schengen area is undoubtedly one of the fundamental rights, but i consider social rights to be one of the most important. social rights should be taken into account in this period, in the period of economic, financial and economic crisis. because who are the ones who are paying the most for the consequences of the crisis? they are not bank managers, speculators, or traders in the financial markets. these are mainly employees and members of the so-called middle class. the neoliberal market mechanism has put most of these people in a very difficult situation. i therefore find it unacceptable that today we should focus on recapitalising banks and not talk about the need to improve the social situation in europe.
in my speech, i would like to draw the attention of the commissioner for justice, fundamental rights and citizenship, viviane reding, to the resolution adopted by the european judicial association on 4 september this year, addressed to the slovak minister of justice. the international institution has rejected judicial reform. he criticises the way judges are selected by commissions that are completely controlled by the ruling coalition. he criticises the transfer of the right to submit proposals for disciplinary prosecution of judges to the ministry and also criticism of court decisions by representatives of the slovak executive and legislative power. the resolution is a disgrace to the current government in slovakia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected. the constitutional court also reacted by suspending the law on the prosecutor's office, which was supposed to take full control of the independent prosecutor's office and direct it from the minister's chair.
the increase in the capital of the european bank for reconstruction and development itself, and thus the increase in the volume of european union shares to maintain a constant share of about 3%, is acceptable. however, i would like to take this opportunity to highlight some of the problems with projects financed by the ebrd. although the volume of loans granted by the bank has increased during the crisis and its scope of operations has also expanded, questions remain about the sustainability of its project financing. this is because projects with negative social and environmental impacts are often financed. and while the ebrd has increased its financing of energy efficiency projects over recent years, it is also continuing to invest in a very different spectrum of projects. as a shareholder, therefore, we should not only constantly increase the amount of funding we make available to the ebrd, but also consider how it is used. i know that we will not be able to change much in today's discussion, but i would like to call on the competent authorities to focus on the quality of the ebrd's investment strategy.
in the context of the political declarations at the european union and g20 level on the capital reinforcement of multilateral development banks, the governing council of the european bank for reconstruction and development decided in may last year to increase the bank's capital by eur 10 billion in order to expand the bank's activities to support its country of operation. the capital increase is also part of the bank's medium-term strategy. the european bank for reconstruction and development has 61 shareholder countries, including 29 beneficiary countries. the european commission and the european investment bank also have a separate deposit. my country will also participate in the capital increase. when the government decided in february this year to subscribe for an additional 3842 shares payable on demand and 431 paid-in shares worth eur 10 000. in practice, this means maintaining my country's percentage of the voting rights of the european bank for reconstruction and development. the other shareholders of the bank are also choosing the same approach and it is good that the european parliament and the council are also responding to this policy in their decisions. the european bank for reconstruction and development is thus gaining new opportunities to expand its investment promotion activities.
the financial crisis has shown that consumer confidence in the financial system can be quickly eroded. this is particularly the case where adequate procedures are not available to compensate for the losses suffered by consumers as a result of the failure of financial institutions. insurance guarantee schemes can be a valuable tool in reducing the risks to which insured persons are exposed should an insurance company fail and become insolvent. however, these insurance guarantee schemes often differ in terms of cover. this then leads to different degrees of protection for insured persons in the various member states. there are also significant differences in other aspects affecting the extent of protection provided, as well as in operating procedures and financing methods. in order to maintain consumer confidence in the insurance industry, but also in the single market for financial services, a uniform level of consumer protection should, in my view, be ensured. the consumer should, so to speak, be assured that all types of insurance products he purchases are covered by insurance guarantee schemes and that these schemes will guarantee that he will receive 100% of the reimbursement at the specified time, which will be uniform throughout the european union.
the upcoming implementation of the solvency ii directive from 2013 will have a significant impact on the european insurance market. however, as it stands, this directive does not protect consumers from losses in cases of insurance company default and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection therefore recommends that the commission bring the insurance guarantee scheme into line with that directive. a single, legally binding framework for the protection of insurance guarantee schemes based on minimum harmonisation appears to be a good starting point. in particular, in relation to the cross-border activities of insurers, certain problems may arise in countries without insurance guarantee schemes. the european union does not have harmonised consumer protection standards, so providers operating in more than one national system would have to expect higher costs under the host country approach. therefore, the home country principle appears to be a more advantageous alternative to cover the larger geographical scope of the insurance guarantee scheme. however, the commission should use the remaining time to assess the open issues so that the required objectives are achieved when the solvency ii directive enters into force.
the diversity of insurance guarantee schemes in the european union is due to the specificities of the national markets in the member states. however, the diversity creates considerable uncertainty for consumers, especially in cross-border cases where it is not clear from the statutes which rules will apply. the insurance guarantee scheme at european level needs to guarantee more effective protection for all eu insured persons and should therefore also include the establishment of appropriate procedures for compensation for consumers who have suffered losses as a result of the failure of financial institutions. the proposal for a directive on insurance guarantee schemes should improve the existing system of deposit protection and thus contribute to creating more homogeneous conditions in the internal insurance market. in my view, ensuring that consumers are equally protected regardless of the country of residence of the insurer and improving consumer awareness of the risks associated with the provision of financial services remains a clear priority.
for the s&d group within the framework of the competences shared between the european union and the member states, the principle of subsidiarity lays down the conditions under which the union may act on behalf of the member states. in addition to areas falling within the exclusive competence of the european union, the principle of subsidiarity is understood to protect the decision-making capacity and the action of the member states, on the one hand, and to justify union intervention where the objectives of the action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states, on the other. the involvement of national parliaments following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, in particular protocol no 2, is the subject of an annual report submitted by the commission. the report deals with issues such as the subsidiarity principles put into practice by institutions such as the european commission, parliament, council and committee of the regions. it also deals with the subsidiarity mechanism of national parliaments, which was one of the anticipated innovations implemented with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. in my view, mr vice-president, it is appropriate to focus attention on some of the issues raised in the area and in the issue of subsidiarity. the european parliament has been defending the concept of subsidiarity for many years. since 1 december 2009, member states' parliaments have had the possibility to inform the president of the european commission, in a reasoned opinion, that they consider that the proposed legislative procedures are not in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. i would therefore be interested, mr vice-president, to hear the commission's view on this matter: what has it done and how has it addressed the european parliament's requests?
value added tax is one of the most important revenues for the countries of the european union. however, cross-border trade is subject to a high level of tax evasion and it is therefore appropriate to look for ways to improve current mechanisms for recording and reporting and collecting value added tax. tax policy is a competence of the member states and therefore the union's initiatives in this area are very limited. nevertheless, we find in mr cass's report a number of suggestions for improving the current rules. a vat system built on a broad basis, as defined by the oecd, can provide a good basis for further coordinated improvement of the recording and collection mechanisms for cross-border transactions. another benefit may be the effort made to reduce red tape. simplifying reporting, reducing the frequency of declarations, making better use of e-government and introducing a european invoice based on a language-neutral template will certainly help tax authorities and businesses. i am convinced that any simplification and transparency of the system will contribute to a better collection of this tax.
after more than 40 years since the introduction of vat, the value added tax, it is indeed high time to review this system. the aim should be to enhance its compatibility with the single market and its contribution to other policies. vat reform can play a crucial role in supporting the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and the return to economic growth through its potential to re-energize the single market and to promote smart budget consolidation in the member states. all such improvements require a complete vat system that can adapt to changes in the economic and technological environment. simplifying the vat system would also reduce the operational costs of taxpayers and tax administrations, thus increasing net revenue to the treasury. the cost of ensuring compliance with vat rules is a relatively large administrative burden for eu businesses and its reduction would greatly contribute to increasing their competitiveness. finally, the last sentence: it is essential to find solutions so that money, including vat, does not flow from the budgets of the member states to so-called tax havens.
written value added tax is the most important item in each state budget, therefore no tax evasion can be accepted. the differences in vat rates between member states are exploited for various fraudulent purposes, particularly in cross-border transactions. every day in our member states we can meet illegal traders who sell goods imported from other countries directly on the street, without receiving a document, without a cash register, and even the mayors of the villages announce this sale on the local radio. the regulatory authorities turn a blind eye to such phenomena. in addition to these 'small' frauds, larger, more sophisticated ones, with hundreds of thousands of frauds, are uncovered every year. it is therefore high time to introduce a single european tax and uniform control mechanisms. the economic crisis has revealed shortcomings in the collection and control of individual taxes, and vat is one of the most important.
the american employment law will certainly be discussed here for a long time, and it could be discussed for a long time, and although it has not yet passed the us senate, it is likely that you, the commission representatives and your colleagues here in the european parliament will discuss it in this forum, particularly in terms of its compatibility with international free trade rules. of course, this is an important aspect and in the event of a finding of non-compliance, action must be taken in the interests of the european union. on the one hand, we can laconically grin that when the going gets tough, the strong players adopt protectionist measures and the principles of fair competition that they proclaim at times when it suits them go sideways in these times of crisis. on the other hand, i find a certain kind of rudeness pleasing. the frankness with which the us administration is approaching the economic crisis, and which could be in its way an inspiration for us in the european union. let's try to take a moment away from the question of whether or not the law violates the rules of free trade. the enthusiasm with which us president obama presented the bill to congress is something that european leaders, sadly, lack at the national level, but also at the european level. the frankness with which the argument is presented in the united states of america in responsible political circles that the crisis is not primarily about deficits but about the economy and about jobs is both impressive and inspiring. i think this could impress us from a certain point of view and i repeat, i believe it should inspire our national leaders in particular.
madam president, i am glad that parliament has finally adopted the amendments to council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union’s stabilisation and association process. these measures will revitalise trade with the western balkan countries and help their economies through privileged access to the eu market. in turn economic development is to foster political stability in the entire region. it is in the eu interest to make efforts to mitigate the effect of the economic crisis on the western balkans. these amendments permit the extension of the regulation’s validity to 31 december 2015. it took the european parliament a long time to adopt these extensions and that had unwanted consequences for trade relations with the poorest countries in the region, such as kosovo. i hope that in future the european parliament will act more swiftly in such a situation, taking into consideration parliament’s position on the integration of the region and efforts to improve economic relations with the countries of the western balkans.
in writing − if you have in 2002, the court of justice of the european union ruled that certain provisions of existing bilateral agreements between member states and third countries in the field of air services are contrary to article 49 tfeu on freedom of establishment without discrimination, which guarantees nationals of member states of the european union the same treatment in the host member state as is granted to nationals of that member state. however, there are other issues where compliance with union law should be ensured by amending or supplementing existing provisions in bilateral air service agreements concluded between member states of the european union and third countries. these provisions required alignment with union law in order to allow all eu air carriers non-discriminatory access to air routes between the eu and these third countries. for this reason, the council authorised the commission in june 2003 to open negotiations with those third countries on the replacement of the relevant provisions by an agreement at union level. in the case of cape verde, the provisions of the agreement replace or supplement existing provisions of the eight bilateral air service agreements concluded between the eu member states and the republic of cape verde. by aligning existing bilateral air services agreements with eu legislation, the agreement will support the core objective of the union's external aviation policy.
in writing − insurance guarantee schemes are used as a last resort to protect consumers when insurers are unable to meet their contractual obligations. in this way, they protect citizens against the risk of non-payment of their claims in the event of insolvency of their insurance companies. however, they often differ in cover, resulting in different degrees of protection for insured persons between member states. there are also significant differences in other aspects affecting the extent of protection provided, as well as in operating procedures and financing methods. the lack of harmonisation prevents effective and equal protection of consumers, which may lead to a loss of confidence in the relevant markets and ultimately to a threat to market stability. in addition, it may distort cross-border competition and thus impede the functioning of the internal insurance market. however, the development of harmonised insurance guarantee schemes could contribute to remedying the existing shortcomings. in order to maintain consumer confidence in both the insurance industry and the single market for financial services, in my view a uniform level of consumer protection for all types of insurance products should be ensured. the consumer should have confidence that all types of insurance products purchased are covered by insurance guarantee schemes and that these schemes will guarantee that he will receive, within the prescribed time, a 100% refund that is uniform throughout the european union.
in writing − after more than 40 years since vat was introduced, the system needs to be reviewed in order to strengthen its compatibility with the single market and its contribution to other policies. vat reform can play a crucial role in supporting the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and the return to growth through its potential to re-energize the single market and to support smart budget consolidation in the member states. all such improvements require a comprehensive vat system that can adapt to changes in the economic and technological environment. simplifying the vat system would also reduce the operational costs of taxpayers and tax administrations, and thus increase net revenue to the treasury. moreover, the key role of undertakings in the collection of vat must be duly recognised, since vat is a consumption tax and not a business tax. the cost of ensuring compliance with vat rules is a major administrative burden for eu businesses and its reduction would greatly contribute to increasing their competitiveness. these are the biggest challenges facing the union in the field of vat. stakeholders and businesses should be consulted and involved in the preparation and implementation of vat legislation at eu and national level in order to ensure its uniform implementation throughout the union and to create legal certainty.
in writing. − action by the commission is needed in the interests of european citizens. with vat we can relieve our citizens, our small and medium-sized businesses, and create an efficient internal market. there is a need to reduce administrative burdens, to have a european model invoice and to harmonise the system of different european practices. these can support the entrepreneurial spirit of our citizens, the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the emergence of new markets. europe, its citizens, need a european vat concept that is more transparent, efficient, but flexible and supportive of growth. any reform of the current rules should also focus on the fight against cross-border tax fraud, as governments pay the costs of tax evasion through the european citizens. the vat system will become more transparent, giving consumers more accurate information and enabling them to make better decisions. this means a higher level of planning, security and prosperity for the sme sector and our citizens. in the spirit of the report, harmonization of the member states could be initiated without giving up fiscal autonomy. by adopting the report, we have communicated our political support to the commission. the message is clear and i hope that the commission will act in the same spirit. that is why i voted in favour of this document.
in writing − by letter of 4 october 2011, the european council consulted the european parliament on the appointment of jörg asmussen as a member of the executive board of the european central bank for a term of office of eight years with effect from 1 november 2011. the parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs subsequently in particular having regard to the requirements laid down in article 283 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the need for the european central bank to be fully independent under article 130 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union assessed the nominee's credentials, together with the cv and the replies to the written questionnaire sent to him. on 10 october 2011, the committee held a one-and-a-half-hour meeting with the nominee, who gave the opening address and then answered questions from the members of the committee. it gave a favourable opinion on the council recommendation to appoint jörg asmussen as a member of the executive board of the european central bank and instructed its president to forward this decision to the european council, the council and the governments of the member states. on the basis of the above, there is no doubt in my view that the appointment of the candidate is justified.
in writing. − if you have in addition to its core mission of financing investment in the european union, the european investment bank (eib) has been carrying out financial operations outside the european union since 1963 in support of the eu's external policies. this allows the union budgetary resources available also for the external regions to be complemented for the benefit of the beneficiary countries by the financial strength of the eib. in order to support the external action of the eu and to enable the eib to finance investments outside the union without adversely affecting its credit standing, most of its operations in the external regions benefited from the eu budgetary guarantee managed by the commission. eib financing operations should contribute to the general principles governing the union's external action as set out in article 21 of the treaty on european union, the promotion and consolidation of democracy and the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the implementation of international environmental agreements to which the eu is a party. i am of the opinion that, in line with the objective of strengthening the coherence of overall eu assistance in the regions concerned, it is necessary to look for possibilities for possibly combining eib financing with eu budgetary resources. it is necessary that there is a timely exchange of views between the eib, the commission and the european external action service during the preparation of the programming documents in order to achieve coherence between the activities of the eib and those of the commission.
written − the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) was established in 1990 to promote the development of market economies in an area stretching from central europe to central asia. the european union was one of the founding members, along with the european investment bank (eib) and 40 countries. the ebrd supports projects in 29 countries, mainly in the private sector, which cannot be fully financed by the market. it encourages entrepreneurship and supports the transition to an open and democratic market economy. the purpose of the proposed decision is to allow the union to subscribe additional shares payable on demand in the ebrd as part of the capital increase decided by the ebrd board of governors on 14 and 15 may 2010. this decision also authorises the ebrd governor representing the european union to deposit the required instrument of subscription. the ebrd's initial capital was set at ecu 10 billion, of which the eu subscribed 3%. in 1996, the ebrd governors decided to double the ebrd's authorised capital, with the eu subscribing an additional 30 000 shares, each worth eur 10 000, bringing the eu's subscribed capital to eur 600 million. the eu's share of the ebrd's total authorised capital remained unchanged. it is proposed to create new paid-up capital by converting the accumulated distributable reserves into share capital. the operation will therefore have no direct impact on the eu budget.
in writing. − the draft regulation aims at implementing article 10 of the un protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition. it was adopted in may 2001 as a protocol to the un convention against transnational organized crime. it entered into force on 3 july 2005 after being ratified by 40 countries and is the first binding instrument regulating small arms adopted at a global level. the proposed regulation lays down the export procedure to be applied by member states for exports to third countries. its adoption would allow for the application of article 10 of the un protocol in all member states, thereby creating a uniform system for trade in firearms, their parts, components and ammunition within the union. the aim of harmonising and simplifying the procedures applied is complemented by the effort to contribute to the fight against the illicit trade in firearms by promoting and strengthening cooperation between states. it concerns the trade in and transport to third countries of non-automatic firearms, their parts and ammunition for civilian (non-military) purposes, including with regard to countries not party to the un protocol. i believe it is important that article 10 of the un protocol is applied in all member states in order to harmonise procedures in order to establish a common system for regulating the trade in firearms.
in writing − the arms trade, unless clearly regulated, can be considered a potential threat to the internal security of the european union. the protection of citizens and their fundamental rights and freedoms therefore requires the establishment of a single system for the trade in firearms, their parts, components and ammunition within the european union. i therefore welcome the proposal for a regulation submitted by the commission in may 2010 aimed at implementing article 10 of the un protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their components and ammunition. harmonization, streamlining, and a certain degree of transparency in the procedures applied throughout the eu, as well as their acceleration, will, in my view, contribute to the fight against the illicit trade in firearms, for which active cooperation between states is a necessary condition.
written − council regulation (ec) no 2007/2000 of 18 september 2000 introduced exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or associated with the stabilisation and association process with the european union, providing unrestricted duty-free access to the eu market for almost all products originating in countries and customs territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. the stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreements establish a contractual trade regime between the eu and bosnia and herzegovina and between the eu and serbia. it is therefore necessary to amend regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 by removing bosnia and herzegovina and serbia from the list of beneficiaries of tariff concessions granted for the same products also under the contractual arrangements and to adjust the total volumes of tariff quotas for specific products for which tariff quotas have been granted under the contractual arrangements. at the same time, council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 remains the main instrument governing trade relations with kosovo. uninterrupted access to the union market is a decisive factor in the recovery of the economy of kosovo and the region as a whole. at the same time, this will avoid negative effects on the european union. for these reasons, i consider it appropriate to extend the validity of council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 until 31 december 2015.
in writing − the european council meeting will be dominated by the current crisis in the euro area. although the european union faces a number of problems and challenges, this is undoubtedly the biggest one. i believe that the european institutions clearly need to take a more decisive stance. the failure to address the eurozone crisis undermines the legitimacy of the european institutions and frustrates the citizens of the member states. the gradual, deliberative and consensual decision-making which is characteristic of the union in ordinary times and is the source of its legitimacy must find its limits in a crisis. otherwise, there's a collapse. our effort should be to move from politically acceptable solutions to real solutions. at the june summit, eu heads of state reaffirmed their commitment to do whatever is necessary to preserve the financial stability of the euro area as a whole. i am convinced that next week's october council meeting will be the last chance to confirm these words. then it might be too late. because only a clearly defined and convincing action plan, prepared and approved with the participation of democratically elected representatives from the european parliament, could contribute to restoring confidence in the euro area and the eu as such. it would send a signal to investors and to the citizens of the member states that europe can be trusted.
in writing the creation of the schengen area and the integration of the schengen acquis into the eu framework is one of the greatest achievements of the european integration process, which directly concerns european citizens. romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis when they joined the eu in 2007. both countries have substantially overhauled and reorganised their integrated border management systems through significant investments in their law enforcement authorities, including the provision of training and the latest technology, and have significantly strengthened their institutional and legal frameworks, as recognised in all schengen evaluation reports. both countries have fully implemented the schengen acquis, which is the only condition for their entry into the schengen area under the accession treaty and the current eu legal framework. i believe it is important that all member states take a decision to extend the schengen area to bulgaria and romania solely on the basis of the schengen acquis and procedures. i also take the view that member states already in the process of joining the schengen area cannot be subject to additional criteria. it is appropriate for the competent authorities to take the necessary measures to allow romania and bulgaria to accede to the schengen area.
in writing − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of persons is a fundamental right guaranteed to eu citizens by the treaties and on which the idea of european integration is based. it is clear that bulgaria and romania have substantially reorganised their integrated border management systems, but doubts remain as to whether romania and bulgaria fully fulfil the criteria for accession to the schengen area. recent negative experiences with increased inflows of migrants have highlighted many shortcomings in the protection of the external borders and therefore the legitimate concerns of some states about the additional potential threats associated with the full opening of borders, such as the increase in crime and the overall deterioration of security and public order on their national territory, cannot be understated. it is natural that every state of law seeks to protect its citizens and its internal security. for this reason, i believe that the principle of unanimity in approving bulgaria and romania's accession to the schengen area should be respected and that efforts should be made to resolve the remaining concerns in a constructive manner.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. - first of all, i would like to congratulate adam kósa on his excellent report and allow me to highlight some of the ideas contained in the report and opinion of the committee on women's rights. first, women with disabilities face multiple forms of discrimination. in this sense, i agree with adam kos that there is a long way to go from de jure equality to de facto equality. secondly, three groups of women are at higher risk of poverty: single mothers with disabilities, mothers with children with disabilities, and single-parent families, elderly women with disabilities. in this context, my third comment concerns inclusion, which is of cardinal importance, and national strategies should take into account that we live with different groups of disabled people with different needs. so we expect a lot from these strategies in this respect.
i welcome mr koss' report because i have always been a supporter of the full inclusion of disabled citizens in society. i believe that we will soon see a single european mobility card. states provide their citizens with disabilities with a system of discounts that increase their mobility and chance of finding a job. but once these people cross the border, they lose that support. the student card-based discount system has been in place for years not only throughout europe but also in many other countries around the world. we're talking about the inclusion of people with disabilities. i believe that we want to make life easier for all people who have a disability and who have difficulty in their daily lives, and we do not want to discriminate between them. i therefore regret that the report specifically mentions certain organisations, thereby calling into question the general principle of the report.
first of all, i would like to commend the work of our rapporteur, mr koss, and thank him very much for the very good report he has produced. i also welcome the council conclusions on a new european disability strategy for the next 10 years and the efforts to implement the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment on an increasing number of fronts. in the committee on culture and education and in the committee on women's rights and gender equality, we are also still trying not to leave out these groups of our citizens, who are facing really difficult conditions in terms of employment, education, training, access to equal opportunities and services, as well as social protection and health care. we have therefore also campaigned for better conditions, rights and integration of people with disabilities in specific mobility reports such as youth on the move, supporting the mobility of workers in the european union, european schools and others. this group of people also has the right to mobility and the many opportunities that membership of the union provides us with. let us remember them and see them as, many times, despite their disability, as people of exceptional talent, ability and experience in many fields.
in writing. the european institutions and the ep itself have in the past focused their attention on the issue of people with disabilities on several occasions. in its legislation, the ep has always sought to promote legal standards that guarantee the protection of the rights of the disabled. even today, long-term investments for the benefit of disabled people should be prioritised over short-term one-off expenditure. i personally believe that it is essential that disabled people, regardless of the severity of their disability, are provided with assistance that meets their needs. at the same time, however, the objective should be to seek to create conditions that minimise the need for personalised assistance in a genuinely barrier-free environment. because even though we talk about integration as integration into society, these people are already full members of society. but it is necessary to seek to integrate them through acceptance. opportunities are equal when the same effort leads to similar results. it is perhaps not possible to apply a uniform model to all countries in terms of study, employment, freedom of movement and various other activities. the obstacles faced by disabled people differ from one case to another. some member states emphasise certain aspects more, others less. however, one feature should be common: the provision of adequate accommodation and guarantees related to disability that will help people to live fully in society.
the findings of recent studies confirm that, despite the extensive activities and interventions of the european institutions, the business conditions of smes are not improving. most member states only formally assess the quality of the legislative environment for smes and do not even bother to implement european law in this area. in view of the critical economic situation in europe, we should put more pressure on the member states to remove the unnecessary bureaucratic burden. in fact, a small businessman, such as a baker or a restaurant operator, must regularly file various detailed reports with up to six government agencies. for each change in business, it needs to go through new approval and authorisation procedures, thus bypassing at least three or more state offices. but what about those countries whose economic growth we now envy? it's where the small businessman does his business, pays his taxes, and that's it. so let's try to simplify the mechanisms for small businesses.
documents published before the recent european commission on the enlargement of the european union have indicated to aspirants to future membership that progress on the path of european integration is possible only and exclusively on the basis of real results. therefore, the published conclusions were welcomed by those who were able to continue to implement the necessary reforms and meet the criteria, often also on the basis of a compromise reached by the political actors. for those who failed to do so and continued to engage in fruitless muscle-strengthening instead of rational constructive dialogue, the year that had passed since the publication of the previous reports was wasted time. and by reminding them that no one else will do the work for them. if they want to stand up to their own citizens, they'll have to behave and work accordingly. excuses of objective difficulty and a cold-blooded foreign country will not be believed.
in writing. the mobility of workers within the european union has long been treated as a potential problem. although the contracts contain the concept of free movement of workers, member states are free to introduce temporary restrictions. the reason is almost always the same: the flow of immigrants from poorer states to richer states, and the citizens of the host state may lose their jobs. but these fears are unfounded. the mobility of workers has a positive impact on the eu as a whole. however, we can say that very few workers are exercising their right to mobility. we need to harmonise national and eu regulations as soon as possible. existing eu strategies need to be adapted to the effects of labour mobility and the increasing role of smes. the involvement of smes is key to this process, as their development guarantees job creation. the importance of information and knowledge is also of paramount importance. in many member states, the current level of information is inadequate. the mobility of workers should be strongly supported and information should be easily accessible to all those concerned. more effort is also needed in educational programs. the coordination of education policies and the acceleration of the recognition of diplomas should be emphasised in order to increase the likelihood of reaching an agreement on how to prepare the active population for changes in the market and the competitive constraints therein.
in writing. the right to move freely for work is one of the most important rights of eu citizens. unfortunately, there are still many problems associated with mobility, which we must try to eliminate for our citizens in order to make this privilege work for them in practice. first of all, cooperation between all the competent authorities and bodies in the individual member states, coordination of their activities and improvement of the quality of control mechanisms and inspection services is important. mobile workers continue to face enormous discrimination and abuse of their rights. we must therefore ensure that they have access to sufficient information on their rights, obligations and options regarding work and residence abroad and that they have adequate legal and social protection. we must try to create legislation that guarantees them the same rights as those at home, including the right to equal pay, the right to strike, to do business under the same conditions, to have a family with them in a foreign country, who also have access to education, health care, etc. i also highly value and support the creation of programmes that promote mobility, such as erasmus and various twinning programmes. mobility within the eu is a great motivator for our citizens even in these times of crisis, and it is up to us to create and secure the best possible conditions for them.
according to the commission's report, nine out of ten jobs are created in the services sector. a functioning single market for services is therefore essential if the european union is to be competitive on the world stage. the european union and its member states are currently in the throes of a major crisis, unemployment is rising and job creation is uncertain. it is therefore necessary that all the single market instruments are fully implemented in all member states, while ensuring that all aspects are functioning, such as the points of the single treaty. the peer review process is a tool that is based on a thorough evaluation of the regulatory framework for services. only such a peer review mechanism will be able to ensure that the single market within the union functions as it should.
the creation of a single market for services has been one of the cornerstones of the european project from its very beginning. the single market in services was not conceived as an end in itself. it is a tool for improving the daily lives and prosperity of european businesses, but also of the citizens of the member states of the union. the huge potential it offers should be used as a lever to create sustainable growth and jobs, to expand consumer choice and to provide new opportunities for businesses. all of this applies in a big way right now in a time of crisis. for example, the peer review process has shown that the member state in which the service is provided often imposes insurance obligations on cross-border service providers. this is regardless of the fact that the provider concerned may already be adequately insured at the place of establishment. this causes considerable problems in the cross-border provision of services in sectors such as business services or construction. i would therefore ask the commission to consider whether such obstacles, which still exist today, cannot be removed for the future, both for the better prosperity of european businesses and for greater efficiency in the provision of services to the citizens of the member states.
thank you, madam president. alternative dispute resolution has become a definite social, legal and economic technique. justice is essential in environmental, labour and international economic relations. in the committee on legal affairs, mrs wallis' report was prepared in the interest of a safer and more efficient eu system. the increasing number of procedures indicates the need to harmonise the legal framework within the union. legal certainty and the protection of consumer rights can be enhanced in a more transparent and coordinated system at european level. it is more important than making alternative dispute resolution mandatory to promote more intensive communication and cooperation between member states and competent professional organisations at union level. adequate information on dispute resolution options for citizens and smes can save significant energy and costs for society and the economy. in addition to the safeguards at member state level, the eu has a role to play in ensuring that 27 states benefit from the benefits of alternative dispute resolution in the single market.
access to justice is a fundamental right. the aim of judicial proceedings, as well as of alternative dispute resolution, is to make such efforts as would lead to the restoration of legal reconciliation or to the resolution of disputes between the parties. alternative dispute resolution helps consumers and traders to resolve conflicts through a third party out-of-court and thus becomes an effective alternative to litigation, in particular in terms of cost. it is regrettable that the knowledge and awareness of citizens of the member states of the union about the very existence of systems and alternative dispute resolution is relatively low. and only a small percentage of citizens know how to submit a complaint to an adr body itself. i therefore believe that it is necessary to promote the public awareness of the potential for dispute resolution also through mechanisms such as alternatives to litigation. they offer the possibility of avoiding a direct confrontational approach while at the same time providing a mutually beneficial solution to the dispute. however, a balanced approach should be sought, taking into account the scope of competence of adr systems on the one hand and fair procedures and treatment of stakeholders on the other.
i support the idea of finding a deal. i consider it useful to harmonise the procedures for alternative dispute resolution in commercial and property disputes in order to increase legal certainty. consumers and businesses alike will certainly appreciate the efforts of the commission and parliament to continuously improve the out-of-court settlement mechanism. it's a win-win situation for both sides. however, i would point out that the family mentioned in the title of the report does not fall within the competence of the union and its institutions. like mrs roith, i consider this a very sensitive issue which requires respect for different national traditions and social conditions. one standard is not enough. recall the problems that have arisen in trying to resolve international divorce at the european level, and consider the lack of representation of the child in the mediation process between the two parents.
alternative dispute resolution in civil, commercial and family matters can in many cases become a quieter, cheaper and faster form of dispute resolution. it is therefore important that the european public is well informed about the relevant legislative frameworks and the possibilities that they offer. in particular, the regulation establishing a european small claims procedure and the directive on certain aspects of mediation in civil and commercial matters provide a common european basis for cross-border and national alternative dispute resolution. i agree that a good level of awareness among the public and businesses of the benefits of adr will help to increase the use of these methods and relieve the courts of the burden of resolving consumer and family disputes in particular. the use of out-of-court family dispute resolution options that reduce the psychological burden on the disputing partners as well as on the children is certainly a better solution than a protracted dispute with evidence and witnesses. it is therefore also appropriate to promote the application of sound alternative dispute resolution at all levels.
mr hökmark has prepared his report very well indeed and it must be said that there is a great deal to be said about global economic governance before the g20 meeting in november. i want to mention at least two things briefly. first, it is already clear to most actors that the current world economic order is collapsing and is unlikely to survive in the form in which we know it. i see this as partly good news, because the level of global economic inequality and social injustice was becoming unsustainable. but it is by no means certain that a new system built on the ruins of today's system will automatically be better. in fact, it is possible and likely that misinterpretations of what is happening today and misrepresentations of how to respond to these developments could make matters worse. so i would like to call on european and national leaders to recognize the gravity of the situation and act accordingly. we are at a time when the fate of entire nations, including millions of their inhabitants, is at stake.
i agree with mr hökmarko when he says that changes to the global economic system need to be discussed at the g20. the g20 is a forum for discussion on the future and the corresponding changes in coordination in the areas of finance, economic policy, banking and so on. i'm not sure that the european union is the player that can offer alternatives and solutions at this time, because the european union itself has serious problems that it's not doing well enough at the moment. let us just mention the current economic crisis and the beginning of the problems with greece, which are still not resolved, and unless our economists, our political leaders, are able to deal with the problems we have in europe today in a sufficiently operational and constructive way, it will be difficult for economic and political leaders from other successful parts of the world to accept their recommendations. so i'm afraid our involvement in this area will not be appreciated.
first of all, i want to congratulate barbara matera, because she has covered this extremely painful subject very thoroughly. the situation of single mothers is practically linked to child poverty, and that is the point of this report. one in three children live in poverty or at risk of poverty in a single-mother household, and from this point on, reconciling employment, family life and the world of work is not just about improving the quality of life, it is simply a matter of life. if we fail to take decisive action in this area, we will not only fail to meet the employment targets of the 2020 strategy, but we will also leave these children - who are being raised by single mothers - trapped in poverty. i think we need to take decisive action to overcome this problem.
single mothers have a hard life. they sacrifice for their children and are at high risk of poverty. i therefore support efforts to improve the situation of women who are left alone with their children after the breakdown of their families. we now know that when mothers raise their children alone, it's always more expensive for the state. therefore, we should pay more attention to the causes of family breakdown. many marital crises are the result of a poor economic situation. if we focused more on supporting families, many of these women would never be left with their children. but the commission and this parliament would have to recognize first that women are not just a workforce, that the family is not just a small group of people living together, that marriage is not just a formal declaration of love. they need to understand that it's no coincidence that despite the proclamation of equality between women and men, we're dealing with single mothers tonight, not single fathers.
in many societies, especially those dominated by patriarchal or conservative models, the status of unwed mothers is disregarded. many view single-mother motherhood as a so-called transitional state that will be resolved once the single mother finds a mate and forms a so-called traditional family. this distorted view, however, further complicates their position. it is therefore necessary to respond to this by adjusting the policies. it is the responsibility of the member states to seek to ensure adequate living conditions for single mothers. the difficult financial situation also complicates the lives of these women, who usually suffer from the wage gap. it is desirable to adopt adequate public policies, including education policies, care policies, health policies, employment policies, social security systems and housing policies. they should facilitate the living conditions of single-parent families, in particular taking into account the reality of single mothers.
the situation for unwed mothers in europe is still desperate. a huge number of single mothers face existential problems, such as poverty, social exclusion, unemployment, poor health, and so forth. these mothers have to fight discrimination in the workplace, in educational facilities, and so forth. it is therefore necessary to create programmes for them to provide financial support, for example, for their own education, the education of their children, return to school and career development, health care, childcare, counselling, as well as incentives for businesses to employ single mothers, for example in the form of tax breaks. we also need to try to find funding for existing rescue and assistance centres for abandoned women with children, which are full of volunteers willing to help in need but, unfortunately, without sufficient funding. and of course, we must not forget about the spread of awareness and the education of young women and prevention. education and information about their sexual and reproductive rights and health, and, for example, ways to protect them, is certainly an effective prevention. and in conclusion, i regret that there is not a single man in this debate.
protecting every citizen of the european union from organised crime is important. the most important is especially with the most vulnerable. i'm talking about children and teenage boys and girls. i can't imagine protecting children without being in sympathy with their parents. more than four years ago, i called for a europe-wide campaign called do you know where your child is now? i have published a publication to alert parents to the dangers to their children. the literature contains testimonies, the opinions of children. during this time i met with three commissioners and, although the situation of children at risk from organised crime is worsening, i have unfortunately not found a positive response.
the fight against organised crime is one of the most important areas and priorities in the field of justice policy of the european union. cooperation and coordination between member states must be improved. legislation needs to be harmonised towards those legal systems that are most effective in combating organised crime. i support the call by mrs alfano for the commission to present a framework proposal for a directive on the confiscation of the proceeds from crime. this was also one of the priorities of our socialist and democratic group and i, as its vice-president for this area, must say that i am very pleased that this proposal has been accepted. it is also important to establish a mechanism that effectively redistributes confiscated resources back to society to be used for social purposes, and in this context i welcome the call to the commission to adopt and support the urgent need for european legislation on the reuse of proceeds of crime for the benefit of society, including witness protection.
the council of europe's rapporteur on legal affairs and human rights, dick marty, published his report on the killing of civilians and the illegal trade in their organs in kosovo late last year. in his report, dick marty states that the current prime minister of kosovo, hashim thaci, led an organized crime group in the late 1990s and his gang was allegedly involved in murder, rape and human organ trafficking. in january of this year, the european union mission in kosovo, eulex, therefore launched a preliminary investigation into the allegations made by swiss senator dick marty. i think we all realise the seriousness and sensitivity of the allegations raised and the consequent difficulty of the eulex mission, which cannot possibly rely on the assistance of the domestic kosovo authorities in this investigation. after all, one of the supposedly protected witnesses was recently killed in germany. nevertheless, i believe that the conclusions of eulex will be important for the credibility of the european union's security policy, and not just in the balkans.
as long as there is an effort to fight poverty in the world, we are sure that there is humanity. rome, paris and accra have shown that development aid does not mean giving alms. it's the joint work of the recipient and the donor. the paris criteria have become a tool that allows aid to be effective. the purpose of the busan meeting is to review the progress made with these criteria. we have a compass and a map. in busan, we use them to orient ourselves, to know where we are, and to move forward. in doing so, however, it is vital that we keep in mind our common goal. if we want to succeed in the long-term fight against poverty, we have to help people to help themselves. let's not forget that.
i am afraid that the problem we are discussing has not only a legal, institutional but also a political dimension. i would like to stress that parliament has every right to make its decision and that it has done so quite rightly in a situation like this, since the council has not fully complied with its obligations. the very fact that this situation of legal conflict between the institutions of the european union has occurred is, however, very unfortunate from the point of view of the legitimacy of the union, but also of the project of european integration as a whole. it is extremely counterproductive for two institutions to argue about who has done what, who has not done what, and who has the right to do what. i think that even without these disputes, the union has enough other problems to focus on today. citizens are not curious about our interinstitutional conventions, but they are asking us to solve their problems. the critical dispute over the discharge should therefore be settled legally as soon as possible. the facts are clear to me: the council administration should be subject to democratic accountability to the citizens of the union for the use of union funds.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 5/2011 to the general budget for 2011 includes the amendment of the establishment plan of the two institutions the european data protection supervisor (edps) and the european external action service (eeas). the establishment of the eeas in 2010 was guided by the principles of budgetary neutrality and sound and efficient management, taking full account of the impact of the economic crisis on public finances and the need for budgetary rigour. it was clear from the outset that a gradual establishment of the service would be required and that resources should be made available depending on the progress of the establishment of the institution and the current absorption capacity. on a proposal from the commission, the edps's budget is amended by the abolition of post ad 14 and the creation of post ad 15 in the establishment plan of section ix.
in writing. − the academy was established in 2001 and became a community body within the meaning of article 185 of the financial regulation with effect from 1 january 2006, thereby becoming subject to the provisions of the framework financial regulation for agencies. in its report on the audit of the academy's annual accounts for the financial year 2009, the court of auditors raised doubts as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and the european parliament consequently decided to postpone the discharge to the director of the academy for the implementation of the academy's budget for the financial year 2009. however, the new report submitted already proposes to grant discharge and there are no amendments to prevent this. although the situation description in the academy's progress report on the implementation of its multiannual action plan remains relatively general, it provides a clear overview of the state of implementation of the individual milestones and should therefore provide a satisfactory basis for informing the various stakeholders. the increased transparency provided by the current director and his management team has led to a better understanding of the problems facing the academy and has encouraged the necessary changes.
in writing. − modernising and, above all, making public procurement more efficient is crucial at the moment, especially in times of crisis. it is clear that price alone cannot be the deciding factor social aspects, as well as sustainable job creation issues are now of paramount importance. for example, in the slovak republic, unemployment is at its highest level in six years. the unemployment rate in slovakia has increased to 13,37%, and the situation is unlikely to improve next year due to the expected slowdown in economic growth. one of the challenges of public procurement is also the large number of subcontractors, which ultimately causes confusion and opacity. it is therefore necessary that contracting authorities are informed in advance of all details concerning the use of subcontractors. it is therefore necessary to approach these modernisations in a systematic way, with a focus on sustainable development.
in writing. − as the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2009, raised doubts as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, the parliament, in its decision of 10 may 2011 referred to above, decided to postpone its decision on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the agency's replies following the above mentioned parliament resolution of 10 may 2011 were subsequently received by the discharge authority and provided updates on the implementation of the recommendations. in the light of the second report of the committee on budgetary control, the executive director of the european medicines agency has been granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009. the discharge authority will continue to closely monitor the progress of the implementation of the measures taken to address the agency's serious deficiencies identified in the court of auditors' and the ias' reports during the course of the further discharge procedures. it is therefore desirable that the agency continue to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken and their results and always submit the required documents in a timely manner.
in writing. − the proposal aims to codify council directive 92/23/eec of 31 march 1992 on the construction and fitting of tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers. the new directive replaces several acts forming the subject of the codification; the proposal fully preserves the content of the codified acts and limits itself exclusively to consolidating them into a single act, the formal amendments not going beyond the necessary purpose of codification. that directive has been substantially amended several times. i believe that, in the interests of clarity and rationality, it is therefore necessary to codify this directive. it is one of the separate directives of the ec type-approval system established by directive 2007/46/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 5 september 2007 establishing a framework for the type-approval of motor vehicles and their trailers, of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, and laying down the technical prescriptions to be complied with by motor vehicles and their trailers, which relate, inter alia, to tyres. those technical requirements relate to the approximation of the laws of the member states in order to allow the application of the ec type-approval process laid down by the directive in question to each type of motor vehicle and trailer. however, this directive should be without prejudice to the obligations of the member states relating to the time limits for transposition into national law.
in writing. − access to justice is a fundamental right. the concept of freedom, security and justice needs to meet the needs of citizens and businesses, including by applying simpler and clearer procedures, while improving access to justice. alternative dispute resolution shall seek to make such efforts as would lead to the restoration of legal reconciliation or the resolution of disputes between the parties. alternative dispute resolution helps consumers and traders to resolve disputes through a third party by out-of-court means and thus becomes an effective alternative to litigation, in particular in terms of cost. however, it is a sad reality that the knowledge of citizens of the member states of the union about the very existence of adr systems is rather limited. moreover, only a small percentage of citizens know how to submit a complaint to an adr body itself. i believe that it is necessary to pursue redress in the sense of informing the public about the possible resolution of disputes also through such mechanisms as alternatives to litigation. they offer the possibility of avoiding a direct confrontational approach, while offering a mutually beneficial way of resolving the dispute. however, it is essential to pursue an approach that takes into account the scope of competence of adr systems on the one hand and fair procedures and treatment of participants on the other.
in writing. − the council's administration should be subject to democratic accountability to the citizens of the union for the use of union funds. parliament is the only directly elected institution of the union and it gives discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union. it is gratifying that the council has submitted the requested documents to parliament and that the council presidency has subsequently participated in the discussion on the 2009 discharge in plenary. however, parliament postponed the discharge because it had not received any answer to the many outstanding questions concerning the 2009 discharge to the council. i consider it desirable and necessary to continue to distinguish between the different roles of parliament and the council in the discharge procedure and the administration of the council (its general secretariat) and also the administration of the other institutions of the union, including parliament's own administration, should be subject to the control of the court of auditors and, through the discharge procedure laid down in the tfeu, be fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the implementation of their budgets. taking into account, inter alia, the two other reports of the committee on budgetary control, the secretary-general of the council is not given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. the proposal contains an amendment to the directive on measures against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from engines for use in agricultural or forestry tractors. its objective is to guarantee the free movement of these economic machines while reducing the permitted level of exhaust emissions from engines in order to protect the health and quality of life of citizens and the environment. that directive introduces gradually decreasing limit values for each successive stage in accordance with the different dates set to align with the maximum emission limit values for exhaust gases and particulate matter. as a consequence of the technical studies carried out in 2007, 2009 and 2010 and confirmed by the impact assessment carried out by the commission, it was determined that it is not technically feasible for tractors classified in categories t2, c2 and t4. 1 to meet the requirements of stages iiib and iv within the time limits set. in order to prevent union legislation from laying down technical requirements which cannot be met and thus prevent tractors of that category from being type-approved and placed on the market or put into service, it is necessary to provide for a transitional period of three years during which they may still be type-approved and placed on the market or put into service. directive 2000/25/ec should therefore, in my view, be amended accordingly.
in writing. − the maximum exhaust emissions of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter from diesel engines of non-road mobile machinery are regulated in directive 97/68/ec. the 2004 revision of the directive (2004/26/ec) introduced the current exhaust emission limits for the current stage and set the dates and limit values for the next stage. these stricter limits have been applied since january 2011. machinery covered by this directive includes various types of ground-based machinery, for example, for construction, forestry and agriculture. however, it also applies to locomotives, rolling stock and inland waterway vessels. the 2004 directive also introduced a so-called 'flexible system' which allows manufacturers to place on the market between two successive stages of the exhaust emission limit values a limited number of machines equipped with engines which still comply with the exhaust emission limit values of the previous stage. the limit is set either as 20% of the machines of the total annual sales of the manufacturer, which is calculated as a five-year average of the total sales of the manufacturer, or as a fixed number of machines. the fixed number option is intended for smaller producers. the directive is an important part of the union's environmental legislation, it makes a major contribution to reducing emissions and i believe that its revision should seek to achieve consistency between the relevant requirements and the legislation.
in writing. − the european institutions and the european parliament itself have in the past focused attention on the issue of disabled people on several occasions and have always sought to promote legal standards that guarantee the protection of the rights of disabled people. i believe that even now, long-term investments for the benefit of disabled people should be prioritised, as opposed to short-term one-off expenditure. i personally think it is essential that disabled people (regardless of the severity of their disability) are given assistance that meets their individual needs. at the same time, it is essential to make efforts to create conditions that minimise the need for personalised assistance in a truly barrier-free environment. because even if we talk about integration as integration into society, these people are full members of society. however, integration must be pursued through acceptance. opportunities are equal when the same effort leads to similar results, when there are adequate, defined conditions and means. it is not possible to apply a uniform model to all member states as regards the possibilities of study, employment, free movement and various other activities, as the obstacles faced by disabled people differ from one case to another. however, one aspect should be common: the provision of adequate accommodation and guarantees related to disability, which help to live fully in society.
in writing. − more than 80 million people in the european union currently suffer from physical or mental disabilities, representing approximately 16% of the total population of the union. people with disabilities, whatever their disability, are full citizens and therefore entitled to equal treatment and full participation in the life of a society which has a duty to create the right conditions for the systematic and consistent integration of more vulnerable citizens into society. the integration of these marginalised citizens into working and social life through the creation of quality jobs must be a priority for eu policies. financial independence will not only contribute to increasing the sense of fulfilment and autonomy, but will also significantly reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion to which people with disabilities are exposed. for the reasons stated above, i support the use of european structural funds to create a barrier-free environment and i vote in favour of the report on mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities.
in writing. − i am very sorry that people with disabilities have become hostages in the game of some groups for the widespread promotion of so-called new human rights. the resolution of their objective integration problems is postponed indefinitely, as the proposal of the rapporteur, who proposed to prioritise the rights of persons with disabilities, was not put to the vote. instead, the original text approved by the committee was adopted. it contains a requirement to implement the equal treatment directive as soon as possible. it is highly controversial and is rejected by several member states. i am surprised that the cynical opportunism of some organisations has gone so far in this case as to suppress natural humanity and solidarity.
in writing. − forty years ago, the directive on european law on the coordination of public procurement procedures entered into force. while european public procurement law has contributed to greater transparency in procurement, the fight against corruption, the professionalisation of contracting authorities and the reduction of prices, it is precisely the price reduction that has come at the expense of quality and innovation or the increase in other costs. the commission's efforts to ensure that public procurement law in the member states of the european union is simplified and more flexible through the revision are therefore welcome. however, i believe that it should be done in such a way that the best practices that are in place cannot be called into question. i also believe that our aim should be to reach a compromise on issues such as environmental and social challenges in public procurement policy, the quality of work done, including adequate pay, equality and social cohesion - all in the interests of achieving optimal conditions for citizens, businesses, employees and taxpayers. in relation to the general principle of public procurement, the lowest price should no longer be the decisive factor for the award of contracts. the most economically advantageous offer in terms of the cost of the services or goods concerned should be the decisive one. it is necessary to simplify public procurement law again in such a way as to return to its original essence of guaranteeing transparency, non-discrimination and ensuring competition.
in writing. − a properly functioning eu-wide public procurement market is essential to stimulate competition and innovation in the single market. i support the idea of transnational public procurement. the uniform european public procurement rules make a significant contribution to increasing transparency and equality of treatment, but they need to be further simplified and red tape removed in order to give access to smes. the challenge for member states remains to transpose european rules into national law and to ensure sufficient training, as public procurement requires a high level of professionalism. public procurement must not lead to a reduction in environmental and social standards. i therefore take the view that the criterion of the lowest price should no longer be the determining criterion for the award of contracts and should be replaced by the criterion of the most economically advantageous tender in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits, taking into account the life-cycle costs of the goods, services or works concerned. the report presented sets out the main principles which i believe should guide public procurement in the future and which i am happy to support with my vote.
in writing. − labour migration within the member states of the european union has long been perceived as a potential problem in terms of labour shortages, negatively affecting collective bargaining and wages in the host countries. to strengthen european identity and as a guarantee for the completion of the single market, the free movement of persons is treated contractually. however, member states are entitled to retain, for a transitional period, obstacles to the opening up of the labour market to new member states of the union. however, past fears, notably fears of large immigrant influxes, job losses for host country nationals or declining wages, were never met. on the contrary, there is a clear and obvious added value for the eu as a whole. no jobs were left unfilled, productivity in the member states did not fall and the income of workers who chose to provide their services in another member state increased. i am therefore convinced that it is very important to promote labour mobility and to remove all existing legal, administrative and practical obstacles to the free movement of workers. it is desirable to focus attention as a priority on the establishment of cooperation mechanisms aimed at preventing the negative impacts of mobility, protecting in particular families with children. today, faced with the consequences of the economic and financial crisis, it is more than necessary for member states to support each other, to grow and to progress together.
in writing. − the free movement of workers is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. its aim is to enable nationals of the member states to pursue their profession or to conduct their business in any member state of the european union of their choice, without any obstacles or restrictions. contrary to misconceptions, free movement of workers does not harm national labour markets in terms of reducing wages or increasing unemployment among domestic workers. on the contrary, mobility has a positive impact on productivity growth, which is of paramount importance in times of economic crisis. free movement of workers also creates relatively little direct competition for domestic workers, as they occupy positions in sectors where domestic workers are either not qualified for the job or do not want to do it. the area of labour mobility is a very important issue for the future and a common policy is needed to ensure that it is managed effectively and that it is managed in a way that gradually increases employment, and i therefore fully support this proposal.
in writing. − the mobility of workers is one of the fundamental freedoms underpinning the idea of european integration. in this sense, i support any initiative that facilitates the free movement of workers within the eu for work. however, i do not agree that the european institutions and legislation should intervene in the area of family policy under the pretext of increasing the flexibility of the labour market. the definition of the family and family policy are the exclusive competence of the member states. i regret that the author of this otherwise stimulating report has chosen to go beyond his competence. in article 21, it gives member states its definition of the family, which includes sexual orientation. i cannot therefore, in principle, agree with its attempt to impose on the member states, indirectly, the definition of family and marriage for the various forms of cohabitation.
in writing. − the services directive was adopted in 2006 and remains an important tool for creating a fully functioning single market in services. member states are making significant efforts to implement it. the peer review process is laid down in article 39 of the services directive. this is the first time that this instrument has been used in an eu legal instrument. its main objective within the framework of the directive is to assess the situation in the internal market for services after the introduction of the directive. however, the article remains unclear as far as the precise objectives of peer review are concerned. the result of this lack of precision is that stakeholders and policy makers have different expectations and perceptions of the process. similarly, it is a common mistake to link peer review to the implementation and transposition of the services directive. member states were divided into 6 groups, each with 5 countries, for the peer evaluation activity. the overall assessment of peer review as a policy tool is positive. i am of the opinion that the peer review process should continue to operate in the form of group discussions. however, it is essential to increase the transparency of the process. a certain level of confidentiality is necessary to facilitate discussions between the administrative authorities of the member states, but interested parties should have access to regular reports.
in writing. − if you have the development of the world economy in recent decades has brought growth and prosperity and has lifted millions out of poverty. many others, however, continue to face poverty. social and economic disparities between and within countries must be reduced and europe's fight against poverty must therefore be one of the main priorities of the eu 2020 strategy. the united states and europe are currently still dealing with the consequences of the worst international economic recession since the great depression. the development of the world economy has been marked by imbalances in recent decades, and these are still primarily caused by insufficient competition. given the high degree of globalisation and the scale of capital flows, these imbalances pose new challenges for global governance and challenge the fabric of the current institutional set-up. global imbalances pose a potential threat to financial and macroeconomic stability in dominant economies and have implications for other economies. in my view, it is important that the eu takes a leading role in the reform of the world economy aimed at increasing the legitimacy, transparency and accountability of international institutions, while acting in a unified manner on international economic issues. it is necessary for the union to promote fair trade, democracy, human rights, decent work and sustainable development in its trade policies at all times, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, its internal programme and the millennium development goals.
in writing. − to recover from the crisis, we must address the inequalities arising from structural imbalances and lack of economic competitiveness. we need to do this in both surplus and deficit countries. it is essential to strengthen and deepen the european single market. however, this should not prevent the european union from making full use of the flexibility provided by the wto to restore the balance of basic macroeconomic factors and to increase prosperity. we also need to reduce our energy dependence so that we can curb imported inflation and restore the balance of trade with oil-producing countries. the commission needs to take a more decisive stance to engage member states and to highlight the positive impact of a stronger economic governance framework for global cooperation and coordination in the eu and the euro area. the financial and economic crisis has repeatedly demonstrated that capital inflows from global imbalances need to be accompanied by responsible monetary policy and strong financial regulation.
in writing. − the negative consequences of the economic and financial crisis, which we are seeing and feeling in all the member states of the european union, are particularly affecting women. single mothers in particular are often overlooked and oversimplified. in many societies, especially those dominated by patriarchal models, the position of the unmarried mother is disregarded. many view single-mother motherhood as a so-called temporary condition that will be resolved as soon as the single mother finds a mate. this distorted view, however, further complicates the position of single mothers in society. it is therefore necessary to respond to this by adjusting the policies. the gravity of the situation has tended to increase in recent times and it is therefore a matter of priority to address this issue and to pay greater attention to the situation of single mothers. i believe that it is desirable for member states to adopt public policies, including education policies, care provision, health policies, employment policies, social security systems and housing policies, which will facilitate the living conditions of single-parent families, especially in view of the reality of single-mother families.
in writing. − if you have the demographic challenges in europe associated with low birth rates, which are causing a significant ageing of european society, require additional measures to protect mothers with children. the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy should also include the development of concrete policies and the subsequent transposition of their underlying principles into legislation, which will help to create more favourable conditions for reconciling the working and family lives of single mothers. in particular, effective protection of mothers against unlawful dismissal should be ensured and, conversely, businesses should be encouraged to increase the recruitment of mainly single mothers, for example by providing tax breaks or other financial incentives. i believe that facilitating access to the labour market for single mothers is one of the tools to combat poverty and social exclusion, as it gives mothers financial independence, and i therefore support the proposal.
in writing. - i am very pleased that we have endorsed the european parliament's position on single mothers. it's the first time in history, and it's really symbolic that we have a consensus on this issue. i hope that the member states will take this advice to heart and start to look at this issue seriously. sadly, the number of single mothers is increasing day by day. the most important change in this regard, i think, is to stop traumatizing and blaming these mothers in the first place. it's not their fault they became single mothers. almost always it is a decision of at least two people, with the woman being the weaker one in the relationship. it is therefore important that society starts looking at how to help them. i think it is important to give them access to education and training, because they are often young mothers who have given birth before leaving school, and thus become a much more vulnerable group on the labour market - they are uneducated and with a small child. access to public school and pre-school facilities is also important. i hope this initiative will find many understanding governments who will start to implement it.
in writing. − organized crime creates significant social costs as it misappropriates resources, disrupts the common free market, damages the transparency of businesses and the legal economy, promotes corruption, pollutes and destroys the environment, violates human rights and undermines democratic principles. it is essential that the institutions of the european union make a concrete political effort with tangible and significant results in the fight against organised crime. of particular importance is the fact that organised crime often takes advantage of globalisation, the removal of borders within the eu and legislative differences between member states to generate ever-greater profits while guaranteeing impunity. criminal groups have built up a network of supporters and sympathizers and have infiltrated the sphere of politics as well as public administration, as is often confirmed by the findings of investigations. the treaty of lisbon opens up new possibilities and new instruments at union level in terms of judicial and police cooperation, as well as in terms of the bodies responsible for combating transnational organised crime and the establishment of common rules aimed at making this fight more effective. it is essential, in particular, to strengthen and improve the functioning of european structures which deal in different ways with the fight against organised crime, and last but not least, in my view, to fully apply the principle of mutual recognition of criminal decisions and to improve judicial cooperation between member states and third countries.
in writing. − the european union is at the forefront of the fight to improve living standards in developing countries. in overseeing the achievement of the millennium development goals, the need for general consistency in joint activities is always advocated. in the fight against poverty, it is crucial to raise as much development finance as possible from all available sources. the union is not only one of the most important donors of official development assistance, but also offers developing countries a comprehensive set of measures to promote sustainable development, in particular by working with partner countries to develop an aid delivery strategy. although oda is one of the best indicators of official donor commitments, it is not the only source of development finance. an increasing share of total oda comes from developing countries that are not members of the oecd. however, regardless of this, transparency and accountability are essential conditions for the effectiveness of aid, not only between the governments of donor and recipient countries, but also between the state and society. the conditions for development aid are constantly changing and the emergence of new donors should be better reflected in the mechanisms to ensure aid effectiveness. i believe it is appropriate that the eu and its member states continue to pay due attention to the quality of aid and to support the international development agenda.
rapporteur of the committee on regional development, requested for an opinion. − the new skills and jobs programme is one of the most important programmes to meet the objectives of strategy 2020 and to overcome the crisis more quickly. it speaks to a skilled workforce, to groups at risk from an employment point of view, such as young people, women, older people and people living in remote and poorer regions, and these are often highly skilled professionals. as rapporteur for this programme in the regi committee, i would emphasise more efficient use of funds for developing new skills and greater involvement of national governments in supporting job creation. the importance of synergies between the different european funds and a decentralised approach to the use of funds from these funds in order to meet labour market requirements is emphasised. there is a lot of talk about the future of cohesion policy these days. i am therefore very pleased that the resolution also includes a strengthening of the impact of cohesion policy instruments, including the european social fund, by focusing on concentrating financial resources on fewer priorities, strengthening the partnership principle, and emphasising clear and measurable objectives. in addition, the resolution talks about improving the functioning of the labour market, promoting inclusive labour markets and improving the quality of jobs and working conditions, and we will therefore support the motion for a resolution.
the rapporteur of the committee on culture and education, asked for an opinion. - i speak today on behalf of the committee on culture and education. of course, when we talk about this initiative for new skills, for new jobs, we as a committee very much support this initiative and we think that in this period it is exactly what we need to change the crisis in the naturally changing labour market by reassessing the needs of the labour market and, of course, planning, which was also the proposal of our committee, which went through by consensus and our proposal went through in the style that the ministries of labour and education should work together and set some limit to which we determine what types of training for employment we will need for at least ten years ahead. of course, when we talk about education, which is the primary goal of this initiative, we must not forget what comes before education, and that is very good preparation. we've found that some of the professions we're educating are uncompetitive, and for example, the humanities are in decline, so from our perspective, the emphasis is very important, especially on training, manual labor, technical focus, it and languages. we believe that investing in education and the cooperation of several programmes at european union level can reduce the alarmingly high rate of youth unemployment. we would also very much like to support further financial support for existing programmes that are working in the european union, such as leonardo da vinci, which is helping with training. we also believe it is very important to recognise diplomas and qualifications and, of course, to equip young people with the skills they will need. i hope that this report will be a success in the end, because we have various reservations, both in the committee on culture and in my political group, but i am speaking on its behalf at the moment.
the continuing economic, financial and social crisis is now making more and more clear the serious shortcomings of the european economic and social model. the fact that we have recently lost almost six million jobs in the european union confirms that we will have to fundamentally change the outdated economic and social rules. despite the fact that the percentage of europe's working population that is unemployed is approaching 10%, there is a shortage of skilled workers in a number of areas such as information technology, health and research and innovation. the fact that the labour market is lacking professionals from a number of professions is also confirmed by employers in the industrial sector. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. furthermore, we should involve employers more intensively in the processes of preparing courses of study, methods of training and assessment of qualifications, and also give material incentives to those who undertake to prepare their workforce themselves.
thank you to ms regina bastos for her excellent report. the global economic crisis has led to an increase in unemployment, including youth unemployment, which in some member states is as high as 40%. unfortunately, in many cases young people in employment are forced to work at a lower level or in jobs that do not require a qualification, and their knowledge and talents are not being used to the full. the new socioeconomic conditions require better employment, education and work organisation strategies. i agree that targeted and tailored improvement of skills is essential to help people acquire new skills. to this end, it is important that young people are kept informed of what is expected to be in demand based on their levels of education. this enables them to focus on developing skills that are actually needed. as it, health and research are projected to be severely lacking by 2015, these areas should receive special attention and focus. unfortunately, most vocational training systems are still not adapted to the needs of the labour market, which hinders the transition of young people from education to the labour market. it is regrettable that member states are cutting their education and training budgets in times of crisis, when this is the area that most needs a reform programme to respond to the rapidly changing labour market. we need to respond to challenges flexibly, almost up to date, and one solution to this may be to offer appropriate training and retraining opportunities to keep pace with labour market requirements. it is clear that changes and improvements in economic know-how, technical and vocational training require significant investment and more investment in education and innovation. i agree and support the fact that the legislative initiative on threshold professional qualifications should also strengthen the mutual recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications.
the ongoing global crisis is having a severe impact on the economy, the financial system, but above all on the social situation in the european union. the numbers speak for themselves. since the outbreak of the crisis, the crisis has cost the union more than 5,5 million jobs since 2008. these are millions of our fellow citizens from the member states of the european union who are unemployed. but unfortunately, the report on this programme contains some very problematic places. it is sad that the right is exploiting the crisis to promote the idea of such labour market flexibility that it wants to introduce without at the same time adopting and strengthening the social protection systems negotiated with the social partners in a tripartite dialogue. the programme seeks to weaken tripartite relations and promotes reforms and forms of labour relations that are not covered by rights. the programme also has some shortcomings in terms of active measures, commissioner. reducing unemployment benefits, privatising pension systems, lack of investment in public education systems and also lack of green investment are all problems for which this programme and its form is hardly acceptable. i therefore hope that we will be able to find a compromise that will ensure that the crisis is resolved in such a way that employment in the european union is also improved without reducing the social standards that we have achieved in europe over the last decades.
the economic crisis and structural changes in european economies have increased uncertainty about job prospects. the almost 23 million unemployed in the european union are anxiously awaiting an adequate and rapid solution from political actors at european and national level. political leaders must focus their attention on developing preventive measures to prevent unemployment by upskilling the workforce while increasing awareness of the current medium and long-term employment prospects in the labour market. i would like to emphasise the need to integrate disabled citizens into working and social life by creating adequate jobs with the support of the european structural funds. i firmly believe that the european union, together with the member states, will be able to achieve its ambitious target of 75% employment for the 20-64 age group by 2020.
on behalf of the ppe group. i thank the polish presidency for the effort and courage it has shown in handling this dossier, and i must say that last week's meeting of the ministers for social affairs somehow leaked much more pessimistic news than what we heard from you. let me quote from that news. we found only one piece of news - and i'm not saying it's optimistic - the message from the meeting was clear: the member states simply said no to the european parliament's extreme proposal. situation analysis -- because obviously the situation we're in is very complicated -- has two different dimensions, one is the procedure. following the rules, considering the jurisdiction, how can we get out of this impasse that you mentioned? the other important question is what will happen to mothers, what will happen to the maternity leave directive. as for the procedure, we've been waiting for the council to act - frankly speaking - for over a year. we know that the council is not limited in time to reply at first reading, and perhaps this delay is why parliament has not chosen the traditional route and has asked the council for information, without, of course, interfering with the council's powers. we can only express our regret that we have not expanded the rights of mothers, not improved their living conditions. however, it is difficult to interpret the news that also came from this informal meeting, that the council refused to adopt a council position on the proposal. the question remains as to what the next step will be, whether a formal ministerial meeting can be expected to take a position. on the substance of the matter, it would be easy to take advantage of the situation and say that we warned you in advance because, as you know, parliament was very divided on the question of maternity leave. but the point is not to be smart after the fact. the aim we must keep in mind is to protect motherhood and improve the living conditions of mothers who give birth. i think we're all in agreement on that. to those colleagues who are upset at the lack of progress and argue that maternity leave is a human right for mothers, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the revised social charter of the council of europe contains an article on this subject article 8 on the right to protection of maternity which obliges the signatory country to provide at least 14 weeks of paid leave for working women at the expense of social security or from budgetary resources. there is a regulation in the charter of fundamental rights on this subject, entitled family and work, which guarantees the right of mothers to protection against dismissal and paid maternity leave. allow me just one more thought, madam president. i would like to say that it is obvious that the development is so divergent in the different member states that it is now terribly difficult to find common minimum standards, but perhaps those 'passerelle clauses', those transitional provisions which take into account the combination of parental and maternity leave, perhaps that path could be taken further.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, our work must be as ambitious as possible. the excesses committed by a part of parliament are the reason why the negotiations are now blocked. i must say here that i personally voted for the directive. we knew the risks. however, some in parliament were belligerent. we're in the middle of a conflict. the commission bears some responsibility, because it also based the directive on maternity protection on non-discrimination between women and men. the council had warned us on several occasions that it would not waste its time with the excesses of its institutional partners. the outcome of the meeting in krakow shows that. so there are two possible solutions. firstly, that the commission should propose a new text. secondly, that we review it in parliament until the outcome satisfies the council, which does not accept the results of a first parliamentary vote. this strategy was used to ratify the treaty and to save the euro, but unfortunately it cannot be used here in parliament. we are therefore in a real impasse. the only way out is to start from the first proposal, which is to start from the new bases presented by the european commission, especially since the legislative situation for pregnant women, women who have given birth and women who are breastfeeding at work is unsatisfactory in several member states. the human capacities of future generations are formed from birth by the special bond between mother and child. the conceptual and material recognition of motherhood is an imperative condition for combating the demographic decline of our european peoples.
we have called many times in parliament for the existing legislation on pregnant workers and the granting of parental leave to be improved and for measures to be taken to improve the reconciliation of work, private and family life. women should be able to better align their duties and thereby strengthen equal opportunities between maternity leave, but also between women and men in working life and working conditions and in the labour market. in my view, extending maternity leave would clearly have a positive impact on the health of the mother and could help women recover better from childbirth and build a stronger relationship with their child. the longer leave and also the strengthening of the rights of women returning to work after it has expired would, among other things, certainly contribute to the equalization of opportunities in the labour market. it is also necessary to bear in mind the fact, also enshrined in the text of the directive, that women should be protected against discrimination on grounds of pregnancy or maternity leave and should have adequate legal remedies in order to respect their rights to decent working conditions and to better reconcile family and working life.
achieving a balanced demographic development in european society and the 75% employment rate for women set by the europe 2020 strategy requires the adoption of measures to protect mothers with children in employment relationships. the marked ageing of european society and the decline in birth rates indicate that in the current legal and social environment, the personal care of mothers for their children is not sufficiently valued. nevertheless, according to all available medical knowledge, it is personal care that is essential for the healthy physical and mental development of newborns during the period when they are beginning to become aware of their surroundings and their mother is their main source of security, affection and, not least, sustenance. i personally believe that maternity leave is granted to women for the purpose of childbirth and care of a newborn child for a minimum of 20 weeks, and that this period should be extended if a woman has given birth to more than one child at the same time.
i admit that i regret that the european council has not yet been able to formulate its position on the revision of the maternity leave directive. the european parliament has done everything possible to ensure that the revision of the directive has the parameters of the present day, so that this standard contributes to improving the care of states for mothers and newborns. the european union is getting old and dying, so it is natural and right that the european parliament should revise the current rules by extending maternity leave, increasing the allowance and allowing paid care for both newborns and fathers. if some member state representatives feel that better care for mothers and newborns at the time when they need it most is a major burden for their countries, it would be good to say how they want to deal with current demographic trends and how they want to secure their country's future without children. without proper care for women during their maternity, europe will not have children, and without children it will not have a future, and that would be very bad, i think.
by amending the council directive on the common system of taxation, we could contribute to the taxation of the profits of parent multinational companies which arrive in the parent company's country from subsidiaries from countries which attract capital flows by not properly taxing capital coming from third countries. most often, such profits come from tax havens and are often declared as royalties for the exploitation of intellectual property. such profits then pass through the country of the subsidiary to the parent company established in a member state of the european union, often without any taxation. in this way, multinational companies avoid paying tax on their profits and do not contribute their fair share to the financing of the social needs of their state. a similar mechanism applies to dividends received by parent companies from their subsidiaries in neighbouring switzerland. the solution proposed by mr giegold thus requires that some 25% of the tax be levied in the country of arrival, if it was not previously levied in the country of origin. at a time when our countries' national budgets need every euro, this proposal may seem to be one of the ways to improve the budget.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. − mr president, in times of economic difficulties and fiscal prudence we still have to make investments which will create the economic growth and prosperity of tomorrow. in the committee on international trade (inta), where i am rapporteur, we have approved initiatives of this type, such as the coordination platform for eu businesses to participate in global growth and euromed innovation entrepreneurs for change. these two proposals were passed in the inta committee almost unanimously. the first project opens the door to the involvement of many more smes in global growth. the second intends to incubate and spread business activities in north africa through mentoring and partnerships with eu entrepreneurs. the members of my committee clearly saw the benefits of these projects and it is my sincere hope that the eu council will see them too.
in writing. the eu budget must be a balancing instrument with leverage effect for member states' recovery policies. it must initiate and support national investments to boost growth and jobs in pursuit of the commonly agreed europe 2020 objectives. the council proposed a low level of payments. this will lead to a greater disparity between payment appropriations and commitment appropriations. the outstanding liabilities at the end of the year will automatically increase, and this will generate additional costs due to the payment of interest for late payment. on the contrary, it is necessary to increase payments from the structural funds and the cohesion fund in the regions most affected by the financial and economic crisis.
in writing. europe is facing a major crisis. 23 million unemployed, young people, entrepreneurs, people living in poor regions, all await the adoption of the eu budget for 2012. the commission, the european parliament and the council all agree that we want a better europe, that we want to invest in innovation, research, lifelong learning and job creation, but we already have different ideas when it comes to approving the budget lines. the budget must be transparent, but also ambitious. we cannot save on investment, eliminating regional disparities. i am personally in favour of savings and freezing of overheads, but if we are to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and other programmes, such as the programme for new skills and new jobs, which we are debating and adopting in this plenary, the council must also understand that the budget presented by the commission and approved by parliament is a budget for the development of the whole of europe and of the people.
the proposed revision of the financial regulation for the european union after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon was intended to bring more transparency as well as administrative and financial simplification of the rules. it is of particular importance that the assessment of research funding, for example, be based not only on the type of research but also on whether the research is in line with the fundamental values of the european union, the protection of fundamental human rights and, in particular, the protection of human dignity. such an assessment must also be made in accordance with the recent judgment of the european court of justice in oliver brüstle v greenpeace, which prohibits the patenting of discoveries in areas where the fundamental principles guaranteeing human dignity and integrity are not respected, and in which the court emphasises that the human body at any stage of its formation or development, including embryonic cells, is also covered by such protection.
in writing. the implementation of the financial regulation and the detailed rules for the implementation of the annual budget of the union must comply with the ecj judgment c 34-10. it stated that human life begins at conception and that the human embryo deserves legal protection. the court stated that 'a 'human embryo' is any human ovum from the stage of fertilisation, any unfertilised human ovum in which the nucleus of a mature human cell has been implanted and any unfertilised human ovum which, by means of parthenogenesis, has been induced to divide and develop'. the court pointed out that the community legislature intended to exclude any possibility of patentability where respect for human dignity could be affected. this judgment must be fully applied now to research projects financed by the community budget in progress, and with a view to the programming of the 8th research framework programme. i call on the commission to present a draft framework programme which gives priority to ethical alternatives to basic research. many serious scientific studies have shown that biomedical research is possible without the use of human embryos. europe can be proud of its capacity for competitive scientific research respecting universal ethical foundations.
the budget of the european union for the year 2012, amounting to eur 147 766 million in commitment appropriations and eur 133 143 million in payment appropriations, is reasonably balanced and takes into account the need to achieve the agreed objectives of the european union as set out, inter alia, in the europe 2020 strategy. this is to support a smart, sustainable, inclusive economy that contributes to job creation. i am convinced that europe needs an investment budget right now, especially for the economic recovery and development of the regions and cities of the member states, stressing that less than 5.6% is reserved for the very functioning of the eu institutions, and i am pleased that the contribution to the general expenditure of the european parliament is frozen at the level of 2011, with the update of the parliament's budget for 2012 being only 1.44 compared to 2011, the lowest update in the last twelve years. i therefore support the proposal to take accurate account of actual needs in order to achieve the agreed objectives and political commitments of the union, in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the priority programmes, which clearly include cohesion policy.
in writing. − promoting investment and economic growth will remain the guiding principle of the european union's activities in 2012. in supporting investment and action to boost growth and jobs, the eu will in 2012 build on the principles set out in the new framework created to revive the economy and strengthen economic governance. in addition, it will also be necessary to respond to the major challenges facing the union itself as well as the member states. the union budget will play a key role as it will have a stimulating effect on member states' recovery strategies, which will ultimately have an impact on the final beneficiaries. i believe that the key objective should remain to support the european economy and the citizens of the union's member states, and that the stimulating effect of the eu budget should be used to boost growth and create jobs. the 2012 draft budget will undoubtedly also focus on achieving the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, setting out, inter alia, priorities such as investments to support growth in times of fiscal consolidation, strengthening the budgetary dimension of the europe 2020 strategy or strengthening the priority areas of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − promoting investment and economic growth will remain a priority for the european union in 2012, based on a more favourable economic outlook. in supporting investment and action to boost growth and jobs, the union will build on the principles set out in the new framework established in 2012 to revitalise the economy and strengthen economic governance. in addition, it will also be necessary to respond to the major challenges facing the union itself together with the member states. the eu budget will play a key role as it will have a stimulating effect on member states' recovery strategies, which will ultimately have an impact on the final beneficiaries. i believe that the key objective should remain to support the european economy and the eu citizens, using the stimulating effect of the eu budget to boost growth and create jobs. the 2012 draft budget will also focus on achieving the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, setting out, inter alia, priorities such as investments to support growth in times of fiscal consolidation, strengthening the budgetary dimension of the europe 2020 strategy and strengthening the priority areas of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − norway is our closest non-eu partner in cooperation on the european gnss systems galileo and egnos. from a political, technological and financial perspective, norway has a long-standing contribution to all phases of the galileo programme through its membership of the european space agency and several years of informal participation in the ec's governance structures in relation to the galileo programme. the agreement formalising cooperation between norway and the european union in the field of satellite navigation also lays down the general principles of cooperation and the rights and obligations of norway in those areas, in particular as regards security, which are not covered by the existing acquis relating to galileo. the agreement is necessary because two important ground installations will be installed in norway and will contribute to the proper functioning of the system. in this context, norway undertakes a political commitment to contribute to the future union policy on the protection of european gnss systems. the commission negotiated the agreement with the kingdom of norway and it was subsequently signed on 22 september 2010. however, it is also necessary for all member states to ratify it. it is appropriate to apply the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on a provisional basis pending its entry into force.
in writing. − the agreement on the promotion, provision and use of the galileo and gps satellite navigation systems and associated applications between the united states of america, on the one hand, and the european community and its member states, on the other, was signed at dromoland castle in ireland on 26 june 2004 and is applied provisionally from 1 november 2008 until its entry into force. the united states currently provides the standard gps positioning service for peaceful civilian, commercial and scientific use on a continuous, worldwide basis, without direct user charges, and the european community is developing and planning to operate the civilian global satellite navigation, timing and positioning system galileo. provided that these two systems are radio frequency compatible and interoperable at user level, they could increase the number of satellites visible from any location on earth and improve the accessibility of navigation signals by civilian users worldwide. and it is precisely the aim of this agreement to provide a framework for cooperation between interested parties in the promotion, provision and use of signals and navigation and time management services. in the light of the commission's proposal and the consent of the european parliament, i consider that an agreement should be concluded.
in writing. - colleagues, the galileo navigation system is a satellite system which should become an alternative to the american gps and the russian glonass systems. both are competitive and, unlike galileo, funded by the military branches of these countries. this system should be operational from 2014. galileo has many advantages, including, for example, full civilian funding or full compatibility with the us and russian navigation systems. the first two satellites were launched last week and we were able to watch the launch live at the ep's brussels headquarters. unfortunately, this launch was not without its complications and had to be moved. the european union started the first negotiations on the introduction of this system as early as 1999. there are now voices that question whether we will be able to meet the planned date in 2014 when the system should be operational (but only in test mode). i personally have high hopes that the european space agency will be able to launch the planned 18 satellites needed to put the system into test operation. we all know that the european union is lagging behind its us counterparts in areas such as development and research, and it is the successful implementation of a system such as galileo that will reduce the competitive edge.
in writing. − it is not only the financial crisis that makes it desirable for parliaments to be creative in restoring balance. in addition to unsustainably high levels of public debt and budget deficits, social inequalities are also on the rise in all european societies. the single market is an integral part of the european project, but it also limits the sovereignty of the member states, especially in the area of taxation. the creation of a common internal market for the benefit of businesses and consumers has been the main reason for the adoption of almost all european directives adopted in the field of corporate income tax. however, the ideology of the absolute independence of national legislators in the field of taxation appears to be unfavourable. tax competition in the eu is stagnating, public sector policymaking is becoming more rigid, and it is also more difficult to ensure a more sustainable and socially integrated society, as capital and profit transfers are very easy and very lucrative for some and unaffordable for others. therefore, a thorough review of the council directive on the common system of taxation applicable in the case of parent companies and subsidiaries of different member states, which aims at facilitating transnational mergers, is now necessary. individuals and businesses in the european union are subject to different national tax systems and state protection of the tax base is almost always illegal. i therefore believe that a common european approach is desirable to remedy this situation.
in writing. − the general objectives of the new financial regulation (frr) are broadly consistent with the overall objectives of the implementation of eu policies, while ensuring compliance with the principle of sound financial management. the nrp and its implementing rules, as well as the multiannual financial framework (mff) and its annual budgets, have a direct impact on european research, development and innovation policy. one of the main objectives of the nrp should be to achieve a proper balance between the principle of financial responsibility and the principle of flexibility for beneficiaries. it is encouraging that efforts are increasing towards administrative and financial simplification of the framework programme rules throughout the life cycle of programmes and projects (application, evaluation and management), which should in particular benefit stakeholders. financing in europe needs to be changed in such a way as to ensure mutual trust and a partnership based on responsibility. at the same time, i think that a certain tolerance of a certain degree of risk is appropriate in relation to the parties involved at all stages, and last but not least, it is important to apply flexible eu rules in accordance with national laws and procedures.
in writing. − the economic, financial and social crisis that has hit europe has highlighted the weaknesses of the european economic and social model and cancelled out some aspects of the progress that has been achieved in the past. currently, according to available data, there are 23.051 million unemployed in the european union, i.e. 9.5% of the active population, with serious implications for growth and prosperity in europe. equally worrying are the difficulties some employers face in recruiting staff, particularly for highly skilled jobs. even during the crisis, some of them found it difficult to fill vacancies with suitably qualified people. i am convinced that it is the strengthening of human capital and employability through the modernisation of skills that could be the right step towards europe's recovery. it is essential to offer people the right incentives to help them modernise their skills, to help them link education and training more closely with work and to better anticipate the skills needed in the future to ensure a better match between supply and demand in the labour market. in order to establish effective employment, education and training policies, it is essential to improve the ability of the member states and the union to make forecasts, to anticipate the nature of future qualifications and to ensure that they are in line with labour market needs.
in writing. − i am very pleased that the european parliament has today endorsed its position on one of the seven flagships of the europe 2020 strategy, the new skills for new jobs programme. at a time when the european union is facing very high unemployment, particularly among young people, i believe that the new skills for new jobs programme can provide some solutions. above all, we need to focus on a much better quality and more inclusive education. this is not only for primary and secondary education, or even for higher education, but also for lifelong learning. we need to define the profile of graduates so that we do not produce and educate graduates unnecessarily without the possibility of employment. we know very well today that some courses are completely useless. of course, i am in favour of preserving traditional craft education programmes, because it is the eu's cultural heritage that we must preserve for future generations. but i do not agree with the continuous increase in the number of graduates in political science, for example, when we know that we will not need that number. we should therefore focus more on teaching practical skills such as languages and it and, in particular, on teaching our students the ability to learn.
the commission should also be able to provide support to the member states in the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and migration. the european parliament recently adopted a report on the european refugee fund. in order to deal with the situation more promptly, the union has sought to strengthen its european refugee fund and adopt a sustainable european refugee agenda. in june, the council then proposed an informal solution consisting of the application of the partial codecision procedure. the parliament then responded with a counter-proposal, which envisages a full codecision procedure, but to date the council has not given us any comments or replies. we have lost a lot of time in this reckless act and if a suitable common solution is not found by the end of 2011, the possibilities available to the european refugee fund will undoubtedly not be properly used. member states will lose their funds and refugees will be waiting in camps. in addition, they may, unfortunately, in some cases, become victims of human trafficking networks or even lose their lives. and i think, commissioner, that this should be unacceptable to the european parliament, the commission and the council. that is why i would like to ask that we find a common solution as soon as possible so that we can resolve this situation together.
for the efd group. the discovery of antimicrobials in the last century was one of the most important milestones in the history of medicine. mankind found a weapon against enemies who had previously recklessly slaughtered human lives, often in devastating epidemics. today, however, the proportion of microorganisms that are resistant to these drugs is beginning to grow dangerously. efforts to save and preserve the lineage of microorganisms force them to adapt to the drug used, or they die. those bacteria that learn to survive in the presence of antibiotics continue to grow, mutate, multiply, and complicate treatment and sometimes death. they're spread from hospitals to other people. unfortunately, we're not finding any new active ingredients. only 1.6% of the medicines currently in development are antibiotics. so from this perspective, we can say with some degree of certainty that we are in the process of total antibacterial disarmament. the world health organization has therefore proposed a set of measures to stop the spread of drug resistance. experts have identified other factors that, in addition to the misuse of antimicrobials, promote resistance. in particular, they pointed to the incomplete national rules on the use of these medicines and their lack of binding effect. the 2001 council recommendation on the prudent use of antimicrobials in human medicine also appears to be insufficient from the point of view of practical application. so i would like to remind you of the world health organization's motto for this year's world health day, the fight against antimicrobial resistance, which is: no action today, no treatment tomorrow.
sexual abuse, sexual exploitation of children and child pornography constitute serious violations of fundamental rights. in particular, the right of the child to protection and care necessary for his or her well-being as laid down in the un convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the long-term physical, mental, and social damage caused by these crimes to innocent victims is unimaginable. i would like to stress that the very nature of these reprehensible crimes undermines confidence in the fundamental values of modern society in the area of special protection for children and, in its own way, undermines confidence in the relevant state institutions, as well as in the european institutions. i am therefore convinced that such serious crimes require a comprehensive common european approach, which includes the prosecution of the perpetrators, but also the rigorous protection of children of childhood. above all, however, efforts and all available means must be devoted to the effective prevention of these serious crimes against minors. in implementing any repressive measures to combat such atrocities, it is essential that the best interests of the child be taken into account at all times and in all circumstances, in accordance with the abovementioned conventions and instruments and with generally applicable social principles of morality. but if such a crime is ever revealed, we should not hesitate to publicly denounce and condemn those who have perpetrated such child abuse, whether individuals or even representatives of the catholic church.
sadly, according to unicef, the child pornography industry continues to flourish, with some 1 million children being abused and exploited for this despicable purpose. the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography are in flagrant breach of the fundamental rights of children as enshrined in the united nations convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. however, it remains for legislators at the level of the european union and the member states to adopt specific legislation to prevent the commission of a particularly serious form of crime. the obligation to protect the most vulnerable members of society, children, certainly requires addressing the issue through the most advanced legal means of criminal law. the seriousness of the proceedings therefore justifies the adoption of strong criminal sanctions and measures, including custodial sentences, which should be differentiated according to their degree of severity in order to achieve the necessary deterrent effect. the nature and manner of committing these offences in the anonymous, often criminogenic, environment of the internet is also changing significantly, and legislation needs to be sufficiently flexible to address and respond to this without any legal gaps remaining. the transnational, even global, nature of this crime allows the perpetrators to evade sanctions outside the european union, and so i believe that international cooperation is essential. i therefore support the idea that the commission should initiate discussions with a view to reaching an internationally binding agreement.
first of all, let me thank mrs angelilli and the commissioner for their effective cooperation in the preparation of this directive. there is no such thing as child pornography. there is only the crime of child sexual abuse through the creation of visual documentation. there's only the production of photographs and videos of especially serious crimes. when we consider this fact, it is clear that blocking websites with such content is not an appropriate response. our priority must be to protect the human dignity of children. it's only going to be secured by removing this content from the servers. blocking access to specific pages should only be used in situations where it is not possible to delete harmful content immediately. let me give you another aspect. parents should be involved by all means in the fight against child abuse and sexual exploitation, especially in relation to the internet. imagine the number of mothers and fathers who are waiting for help from psychologists, educators, sociologists, doctors and police officers, criminologists and judges. this is because their children are in difficult situations, and the parents find excuses for not knowing what was happening to them. i ask the commissioner: how does the european commission support parental responsibility? what is the role of parents in respecting and protecting the rights of the child, according to the european commission? i ask this because i do not find this aspect in the european commission's documents. parents are usually and almost exclusively portrayed as those who fail to fulfill their obligations toward their children or who are violent toward them.
sexual abuse of children is on the increase. this is an alarming trend. its potential consequences are frightening for abused children and for society as a whole. one of the most recent manifestations of child sexual abuse is the distribution of child pornography on the internet. unfortunately, current legislation is not sufficient to tackle this problem effectively. solutions should therefore be sought to prevent the spread of child pornography and child abuse as far as possible. there is talk of identifying and blocking websites, as well as tougher penalties for those who commit these crimes. the objection that there might be a restriction of freedom of information seems to me to be irrelevant. this type of crime often has an international dimension. it is therefore appropriate to compensate for the lack of enforcement mechanisms in this area by strengthening penalties at european level and by increasing the coherence of the legal systems of the member states of the union.
for the s&d group. the socialist and democratic group sees the commission's proposal to revise the original 2004 directive as part of the effort to establish a common european asylum policy by 2012. in the case of the original directive, the european parliament had only consultative powers. now, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament has the possibility of co-decision. the existing directive includes two key elements. first, the grounds on which the person concerned is entitled to refugee status or subsidiary protection and, second, the content of that protection in terms of the rights of residence and employment, but also the social rights, in the member state responsible for protection. the main change proposed is to bring these two categories of protection much closer together. the main objective is, on the one hand, to ensure that member states apply common criteria for the identification of persons genuinely in need of international protection. on the other hand, the directive should ensure that some minimum level of benefits is available to those persons in all member states. in order to make the benefits and rights provided more effective, it is essential to take into account the specific needs and particular problems faced by beneficiaries of international protection in their integration. the problem of financial constraints also needs to be addressed. it in its way limits their access to employment-related education and training opportunities and thus deprives them of being a truly integral part of our democratic society. in conclusion, commissioner, i wish you every success and do not be discouraged by the cries of various populists who are against both asylum and immigration policy. we're holding your hand.
the qualifications and status of third-country nationals, third-country nationals or stateless persons in the context of possible international protection is precisely the subject we are debating together here today. the asylum system is still imperfect and we need to improve it. i am very pleased that the new text puts more emphasis on children, on protecting children, especially unaccompanied children, because they are the 'most vulnerable'. they tend to be the most abused, and of course, that's where i would like to call for us to make a reasonable case that the people who are least protected don't fall into the hands of predators and those people who traffic in human beings and who otherwise abuse them. i am very pleased that we often talk about family reunification, of course, first of all i would see such a priority to protect the natural family and to unite the natural family, on the other hand i am in favour of an effective frontex system and the protection of our territory.
the proposed amendments to the international protection directive aim to reduce the current disparities in the recognition of refugee status between the member states of the union. different internal policies and perceptions of union policy in the member states, as well as different experiences of national institutions with the adaptation and integration of asylum seekers in their countries, lead member states to seek to implement the current directive as they see fit in their experience. i therefore understand that up to six informal trialogue sessions were required to prepare the material submitted. the commission's attempt to interfere with the best practices of the national institutions under the pretext of a greater unification of the asylum system may rightly be met with disagreement, particularly among experienced officials, when certain terms are defined in a manner which is fundamentally different from that which has been used up to now. i therefore believe that the updating of the directive should be carried out in a pragmatic and sensitive manner and with full respect for the views of the experienced national institutions which are implementing our asylum policy in practice. only then can we succeed in our process.
the european parliament is approving for the first time an agreement on the processing and transfer of personal data from the passenger register and i would like to thank the rapporteur for a well-prepared report. if we can be sure that the civil rights of our citizens are not being violated by the agreements, i am sure that parliament will be happy to support similar documents with partners in other countries, whether in north america or elsewhere. the negotiated agreement is in principle in order. however, there are a number of important areas that we should focus on in the future. it would be desirable to try to reduce the period of detention in future negotiations and it would certainly be worth considering, commissioner, to anchor the treaty on the functioning of the european union not only through article 87 on police cooperation but also through article 16 on data protection. last but not least, the possibility of profiling should be treated legally. the agreement with australia does not explicitly mention the possibility of profiling, but neither does it prohibit it, despite repeated requests. i would also like to invite the commission to ask the european union agency for fundamental rights for an opinion on such a specific agreement in the future. despite these shortcomings, i believe that the agreement with australia will be a good model and that parliament will be able to approve similar agreements with other countries in the near future.
the discussion of international agreements on the processing and transfer of pnr data with australia, canada or the united states always raises the question of respect for the rights of citizens of the european union in the field of personal data protection. in the present case, too, the proposed agreement with australia does not remove any doubt that the handling of data of european union citizens by australian security services will be in accordance with union law. the fact that the agreement circumvents the european parliament's widely recognised criteria for giving consent to the conclusion of agreements with third countries on the transfer of pnr data indicates either a lack of professionalism on the part of the commission or, more seriously, i believe, a degree of ignorance of the opinion of the european parliament and thus of the directly elected legitimate representatives of the european people. i am convinced that the european parliament is committed to working with all countries in the fight against terrorism, but this cannot be at the expense of violating the fundamental rights of our citizens.
mr diamandouros, you were re-elected by the european parliament in its plenary session on 20 january 2010, which is a fact in itself that shows that there is confidence in your work, in your office in the european parliament, and that you are doing your job well. we are pleased to note that your quality work has continued after the extension of your mandate as ombudsman by the treaty of lisbon and that you have responded to your new duties in an excellent manner. i would like to refer to your definition of maladministration, which was adopted by the european parliament and later by the european commission. it reads as follows: unlawful conduct occurs when a public authority fails to act in accordance with a rule or principle which is binding on it. for our institutions, this means respecting the rule of law, good governance and fundamental rights. the charter of fundamental rights also includes the right to good administration in article 41 as a fundamental right of citizens of the european union and is binding on every administrative institution of the european union. in 2010, maladministration was detected in 12% of closed cases. the complainant or complainants were granted a positive outcome in seven cases by proposing recommendations which were accepted. in 2010, you also issued 16 new draft recommendations. the annual report shall pay particular attention to the strategy for the current term of office. it is mainly about broadening and deepening contacts with the institutions of the european union and civil society. this is one of the key tasks for the future of the european union, and we will therefore be keeping our fingers crossed for you, mr ombudsman. for many citizens, your office (and you personally) is the last hope for solving their cases. we may envy you, but we sincerely wish you well and hope that you will continue to do your good work in helping the citizens of the member states of the european union.
i would like to pay tribute to the work of the european ombudsman's office. the fact that more than 2 500 citizens, companies and associations complained to the ombudsman's office in 2010 shows that citizens and organisations are used to using this european institution. of course, not all the cases that citizens bring to the european ombudsman fall within the competence of his office. nevertheless, the report submitted confirms the legitimacy of this institution, in particular with regard to the correct and professional assessment of citizens' complaints about the actions of the relevant european institutions. the acceleration of the complaints procedure compared with the previous year shows that the office's work has been improved and made more efficient, and i believe this is a confirmation of the good management of the office. in the future, it would be even more constructive for the ombudsman's office to draw up recommendations for the european institutions to help them avoid the often recurring doubts in their work.
the ongoing religious intolerance and discrimination against citizens of the coptic faith in egypt is, unfortunately, gaining in intensity and scale. a military crackdown on coptic christians in cairo in early october following a protest against an attack on a church in aswan province has claimed nearly thirty lives and left more than 350 egyptians with serious injuries. the persecution and fear of constant violent attacks, including the total destruction of churches, is also evidenced by the exodus of more than 100,000 copts, christians who, fearing for their lives, have sought refuge for themselves and their families abroad. weak state and social institutions are being exploited by islamic extremists. the egyptian authorities must take stronger measures to prevent and punish religiously motivated crime and religious violence, while respecting fundamental human rights, and thus ensure freedom of religion for all citizens, including coptic christians.
as many as 53% of europeans think that antibiotics kill viruses. nearly half of them believe that antibiotics can cure the flu and the common cold. they are also widely used in livestock farming. the result is overuse of antibiotics and increasing resistance of bacterial strains. the problem transcends national borders and therefore calls for joint european action. public health is indeed at risk and i am pleased to have supported this resolution, which not only talks about a system for monitoring resistance and associated infections but also about the joint development of new medicines against resistant micro-organisms. as a general practitioner, i would also welcome better communication with the physician-patient association. in fact, antibiotics should be used only when a doctor is certain of the diagnosis. it is at this time of flu epidemics that more time and money must be devoted to the information campaign.
in writing. − the european ombudsman, nikiforos diamandouros, was re-elected by the european parliament in its plenary session on 20 january 2010 in strasbourg and was sworn in before the court of justice of the european union on 25 october 2010 in luxembourg. in may of that year, he presented the 2010 annual report to the president of the european parliament, jerzy buzek. where possible, the ombudsman tries to achieve a positive outcome by seeking a friendly solution that satisfies both the complainant and the institution. in 2010, 179 cases were settled amicably. however, if an acceptable solution cannot be found, the case is either closed with a critical remark or a draft recommendation is drawn up. the 2010 annual report pays particular attention to the new strategy defined by the ombudsman and his staff for the 2009-2014 term of office. it is mainly about broadening and deepening contacts with the eu institutions and civil society, working to resolve complaints more quickly, and providing useful information to stakeholders and the public. the ombudsman will use this new strategy to consolidate and manage his work to ensure that eu citizens can fully enjoy their rights and thus improve the quality of the union's administration.
in writing. − sexual abuse, sexual exploitation of children and child pornography constitute serious violations of fundamental rights, in particular the right of the child to protection and care necessary for his or her well-being, as laid down in the un convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. they cause long-term physical, mental and social harm to child victims and the very existence of these reprehensible crimes often undermines confidence in the fundamental values of modern society, in particular those relating to the specific protection of children. although reliable and accurate statistical data are not available, studies indicate that a smaller but far from negligible number of children in europe may be victims of sexual assault. moreover, the incidence of some forms of sexual violence is on the rise and is increasing, in particular through the use of new technologies and the internet. i believe that such serious crimes require a holistic approach, which includes prosecuting the perpetrators, protecting child victims, but above all, involving all available means to effectively prevent these serious crimes. in implementing repressive measures to combat such atrocities, it is imperative that the best interests of the child be taken into account at all times and in all circumstances, in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the united nations convention on the rights of the child, as mentioned above.
in writing. − the commission's proposal to revise the original directive 2004/83/ec is part of the effort to establish a common european asylum policy by 2012. in the case of the original directive, the european parliament had only consultative powers. now, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament has the possibility of co-decision. the existing directive includes two key elements: the grounds on which the person concerned is entitled to refugee status or subsidiary protection and the content of this protection in terms of residence, employment and social rights in the member state responsible for protection. the main change proposed is to bring the two categories of protection closer together. the main objective is to ensure that member states apply common criteria for identifying persons genuinely in need of international protection and to ensure that a minimum level of benefits is available to those persons in all member states. in order to make the enjoyment of the rights and benefits provided for more effective, it is essential to take into account the specific needs and particular problems faced by persons enjoying international protection in their integration. i also think that efforts should be made to address the problem of financial constraints, which in some way limit access to employment-related education and training opportunities for these people.
in writing. − the european legal framework allowing airlines to transfer passenger name record data was established by council decision 2008/651/cfsp/jha of 30 june 2008 by signing the agreement between the european union and australia on the processing and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data originating in the union, by air carriers, to the australian customs and border protection agency. since june 2008, the agreement has been applied provisionally, but only in seventeen eu member states, as no unanimous agreement was reached on its conclusion. on 15 february 2010, the council requested the european parliament to give its consent to a new pnr agreement with australia. it subsequently adopted a resolution in may 2010 in which it decided to postpone the vote on this consent request, delaying the conclusion of the agreement and leading to the opening of new negotiations between the commission and australia in january 2011. the clear purpose of this agreement is to establish the conditions under which passenger name record data may be transferred and used and the way in which it is protected. however, there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement complies with european union data protection legislation and is therefore compatible with the treaties in this respect. the european parliament therefore requests the court of justice to give an opinion on the compatibility of the agreement in question with the treaties.
in writing. − australian legislation empowers the australian customs service to require any air carrier operating passenger flights to and from australia to provide it with electronic access to passenger name record (pnr) data prior to their arrival in or departure from australia. the purpose of such a procedure is to obtain pnr data in electronic form prior to arrival, thereby enabling the australian customs to carry out an effective and efficient risk assessment of the passenger and facilitating travel. such steps can enhance australia's security and, in line with the policy to combat terrorism and other serious crime, will also strengthen international police and judicial cooperation between australia and europe. the european parliament initially decided in may 2010 to postpone the vote on the consent to the said agreement, but later welcomed the discussion of a new agreement, setting out its criteria for giving consent to the conclusion of agreements with third countries on the transfer of pnr data. it has examined the new draft eu-australia pnr agreement and has concluded that many of the required criteria have been sufficiently met and therefore gives its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. − several statements have been issued recently in response to the dramatic situation in the arab countries. the arab world is rocked by unrest that has brought down governments in some countries and paralyzed the country in others. the people are rebelling against dictatorial regimes and the rule of radical groups and are calling for democracy. even after several months of demonstrations, the situation is not stabilized, but rather has a tendency to worsen. libya, algeria, bahrain, yemen, egypt and syria in particular are countries where the situation is intolerable. the humanitarian crisis, the problems of refugees and displaced persons, but particularly the problems of malnutrition, are undoubtedly the most serious problems that call for intervention by the competent european institutions. but the situation is also exacerbated by the lack of respect for freedom of religion. the extensive attempt to islamise by killing egyptian copts is a serious crime that the european union must not take lightly. only the pursuit of dialogue on religious issues and the reconciliation of muslims and christians is the way to freedom and to a calming of the situation not only in egypt but also in other arab countries. expressing outrage at the heated situation in the arab world is not enough. the union must take more decisive action to help bring about a peaceful political transformation in this area.
in writing. − the current political situation in ukraine, related to the conviction of former prime minister and opposition leader ms tymoshenko, clearly points to the urgent need to modernise ukraine's outdated judiciary. the european union must be ready to provide assistance and take steps to contribute to the modernisation of the legal system and to strengthen ukraine's status as a state governed by the rule of law. because in the case of this trial, there are doubts about its transparency and impartiality. the independent bodies have clearly stated that the process did not meet international democratic standards. the critical situation in ukraine should be taken with due seriousness and should not be relativized. as important as it is to make efforts to prevent similar situations from arising in the future, it is equally important to ensure a fair, impartial judicial process, not a politically motivated one, through a modernised impartial judiciary. i hope that we will witness the appeal process and that the ukrainian judicial authorities will not be indifferent to the opinions of the european institutions expressing their dismay at the bias and undemocratic nature of the process. it is essential to work together to create the conditions for strengthening ukraine's european integration process on the basis of common values, respect for the law and the application of democratic standards.
in writing. − antimicrobials are substances that are able to completely destroy bacteria, viruses and other microorganisms, or at least prevent them from multiplying and growing. they therefore play an important role in improving public health by helping to reduce deaths from diseases or infections that were previously incurable or fatal. however, as a result of the use of antimicrobials, some microorganisms that were originally sensitive to these substances have developed so-called antimicrobial resistance. in humans, this is often caused primarily by incorrect treatment or inadequate dosage of antibiotic-containing medicines. it is a serious public health problem in europe and worldwide, and as a result, treatment becomes longer and more complex. the quality of life is greatly reduced, the risk of death increases, and so do the costs of health care. i therefore believe that it is essential to take immediate action to prevent or reverse the further increase in the number of resistant microorganisms. however, patients should be cautious when using available antibiotics, and should strictly adhere to dosage, duration of treatment, and the possibility of combining them with other medicines. it is essential to raise awareness in the member states of the public health risks posed by antimicrobial resistance and to promote, through adequate measures, a more responsible use of antibiotics as such.
the number and frequency of self-immolations by nuns and monks in tibet is increasing alarmingly. as someone who grew up under the communist dictatorship, it is clear to me that the main reason for these tragedies is the atmosphere of fear, of unfreedom created and maintained by the chinese communist regime. as one of the world's oldest cultures, tibet certainly deserves more respect, freedom and independence than it is currently receiving from the rulers in beijing. the european union and the european parliament must continue to put pressure on china to open bilateral negotiations with tibetan officials, led by the dalai lama. even a hint of such a move would greatly reduce tensions and bring hope to all tibetans. the benefits of such a decision would be felt immediately throughout the tibet region, and the tragic self-immolation would become history.
for the efd group. the arab spring, which began in north africa, swept across several arab countries, bringing a wave of demonstrations, riots, uprisings against the ruling regime. the wave of unrest has also reached bahrain, and the bahraini king has decided not to allow the protests to spread too far. he has called in armed forces from the gulf cooperation council to help him restore order in the country. in view of the decision of the legitimate authority of the country, i think it is possible to respect the deployment of the security forces of the gulf cooperation council. however, the bahraini administration's treatment of doctors and medical staff who have fulfilled their ethical duty and treated the wounded after the intervention of the security forces is a cause for concern. similarly, the ongoing crackdown on demonstrators and their activists raises concerns about the cultural and civilized resolution of political differences. many rulers in the arab world felt it was right to show their power and strength to their political opponents. the wiser and more discerning rulers, however, choose a moderate dialogue with the representatives of the discontented people and, in their own capacity, offer solutions and outlets that can lead to the solution of problems by a peaceful path of dialogue, with reasonable agreements. i think we should advise the king of bahrain to make the same trip.
the so-called arab spring has affected many countries: tunisia, egypt, libya, syria, yemen, but also bahrain. we are shocked that even in this country the regime is brutally suppressing human rights defenders, those who demonstrate in the streets, who want more freedom, who want more personal achievements, such as we have in western countries and certainly in the european union. i'm shocked that fellow doctors, nurses, nurses are being tried and sentenced to up to 15 years for providing medical care to those who were injured in the streets, who were fighting for their lives, who were on the verge of not providing medical care that would actually cost them their lives. i am shocked that bahrain is using the death penalty to liquidate political opponents and i am glad that the european parliament will adopt a resolution today to allow democratization in bahrain to unfold, to continue.
for the efd group. the situation in syria is still very complicated. the assad family regime is held in place only by military force, and repeated reports of the suppression of civil dissent by combat troops indicate considerable nervousness of the ruling power. therefore, there is no need to look for logic in the actions of the syrian security forces. from the incomprehensible detention of 66-year-old mrs. nachedova, a cancer survivor with a heart condition, it is clear that suspicious and paranoid security forces are already afraid of their own shadow. to enforce human behavior or freedom of speech and international standards in this situation, i think, is going to be very difficult. especially because the syrian leadership certainly sees the european union as more of an enemy. diplomatic activity coming from moscow or beijing could certainly be more effective, and so i think that in this particular case, more creativity by the european external action service could bring the desired results, especially when working well with some of our non-traditional partners as well.
the syrian authorities' crackdown on peaceful demonstrators and use of violence against them has claimed at least 3,000 lives, according to the international organisation for the protection of human rights. police and military firing on their own citizens. the situation where state actors commit such acts themselves instead of investigating human rights violations and violence demands a deep condemnation and a clear call for an immediate end to such actions. one of the latest arrests without any legal basis, the arrest of ms raffah nasheed, is all the more disturbing as there is evidence that members of the security forces torture and physically assault prisoners and detainees. i therefore call on the syrian government to refrain from using violence against its own citizens, to respect their fundamental human rights and freedoms and to immediately release those unlawfully detained.
despite considerable support from the european union, rail transport is stagnating and still lagging behind road transport. the first railway package of 2001 did not meet expectations of a significant improvement and attractiveness of the railway sector. the persisting differences in national rules mean that, while air or road transport crosses borders without obstacles, the international rail service faces technical and legislative obstacles when crossing borders. therefore, if we are to continue to build a common integrated railway area we need to harmonise more closely the rules governing transport on the union's rail network. only by simplifying road transport can we increase the competitiveness of rail transport compared to road or air transport. the organisational separation of the railway infrastructure network from the transport and service operators will certainly help to make the competitive environment in the railway sector more attractive. however, it is also necessary to have in mind the precise allocation of responsibilities, in particular for security, between the various actors involved in the operation of the whole system. rail transport is considered safe, but rail accidents usually cause great damage. it is therefore necessary to collect data on these accidents at european union level.
the mobility of workers and students within the european union is a hugely important freedom one of the four fundamental freedoms we have in the european union. recognition of professional qualifications whether for further training or for employment outside the home country is certainly a priority in this context. we need to enable professionals to go to work wherever the work is in the union. however, the implementation of the directive has shown in practice where the situation is more complex and where problems with the recognition of qualifications and diplomas persist. and that, of course, needs to change. therefore, as a member of the committee on education, which has dealt with this issue many times in the youth education agenda, i welcome the european commission's initiative to modernise this directive and i certainly want to congratulate our rapporteur on a very good report which defines the specific problems with the recognition of qualifications in practice and, of course, pays sufficient attention to problem professions and proposes specific solutions. i would certainly like to stress, as many of my colleagues have done before me, the importance of introducing a professional card closely linked to the internal market information system.
although the european union is one of the richest regions in the world, it is home to 116 million people at risk of poverty and many more are on the edge of the social safety net, living in conditions of severe material deprivation and unable to afford the basic necessities considered necessary for a decent life in europe. this is of course incompatible with the european values of justice and solidarity. it is a concrete picture of the human rights violations of many europeans and tangible evidence of the vast expanse of injustice. the crisis we expect in the coming period will only deepen this problem. i therefore call on all member states not to adopt austerity measures in social security and social assistance systems which harm the most vulnerable groups and remove many safeguards against social risks. the right to decent work, the minimum wage category and the minimum income category are the achievements of modern society that we are proud of and that we have fought for for a long time in europe. this serves as a model in many other parts of the world. let's not let them take it away from us.
the report rightly puts the consumer at the centre of what is happening in the european internal market. indeed, ensuring the free movement of goods, services and capital should serve the needs of eu citizens. i would point out that, although there is a change in the awareness of conscious purchasing and consumer rights, europe is still divided on this sensitive issue. we must fully support the commission's efforts to bring about visible changes in consumer protection in member states and across borders from 2012 onwards. information networks should be strengthened and more emphasis should be placed on information, providing a financial backing for consumer protection campaigns and consumer protection surveys and product tests. it is very easy to detect individual discrepancies and infringements if the appropriate tools are available to those concerned. i would just mention the product test in spring in slovakia, which proved that the customers of the central european markets are not appreciated by some of the manufacturers. i hope that the new commission initiative will bring transparency and better enforcement of consumer protection legislation.
consumer rights have become part of civil rights, so educating good consumers is actually educating better citizens. although this report deals with a number of groups of people and their protection, i find it a little lacking in focus and more attention to the rights of young people as consumers. young people are becoming consumers at an increasingly young age and are also the most innovative group of consumers. they're open to new things, like shopping online. it is therefore very important to educate these consumers and, for example, introducing compulsory consumer rights education into the curricula of primary schools across the european union can certainly help to educate a new generation that is more responsible and aware of their rights. of course, we must not forget the other generations and keep informing and educating them about consumer rights in general. this is the only way we can improve the overall situation of consumer rights, because there is no point in having 800 directives if people do not know that they can benefit from them.
the online gambling sector is growing alongside the increasing spread of mobile and internet communication technologies. while member states are free to regulate their own environment to a certain extent, this must be in line with european internal market legislation. however, gambling operators from other countries with open markets and low tax rates are also available in countries where online gambling is prohibited. there is also an unregulated black market on the internet. internet gambling is also widely available to minors or to people prone to compulsive gambling. we should therefore jointly seek the appropriate framework for the responsible regulation of this environment. the european court of justice has already ruled that gambling is not a regular service and that its regulation in accordance with appropriately defined objectives is permissible. it would therefore be appropriate to define minimum standards for consumer protection in the area of online gambling in order to allow for a more stringent prosecution of such activities in the member states.
in writing. beekeeping is a traditional rural activity that often provides a secondary income for rural households. in central europe, the biodiversity of the flora is relatively well preserved, which makes it possible to produce high-quality flower and honey honey without major investment. under these conditions, the area is able to supply honey as a genuine natural product suitable for the consumption of the population. prices are of course higher than in some parts of the world outside europe, but they also provide a supplementary source of food for the population, with a higher and cleaner quality. too much openness to products from other countries could result in beekeepers being unable to compete with the pressure of cheap but often not quite high quality honey from professionally run bee farms outside europe, where the use of antibiotics is allowed. failure to maintain domestic bee lines risks their replacement by lines or species that cannot be accepted in densely populated countries, with negative consequences for biodiversity and consequently for bee health. such a situation could seriously damage the interests of our beekeepers. central europe has all the prerequisites to produce high-quality honey as a natural product. it may cover any additional quantitative needs with imports from other parts of the world under clearly defined conditions and labelled for the domestic consumer.
demographic change has two causes: people are living longer and having fewer children. this report addresses the needs of an ageing generation. it only makes a passing reference to measures that would help increase the birth rate. in regions that are emptying, multi-family households represent valuable capital. yet the report proposes measures that break up the family full-time childcare facilities or increase the meaningless employment quotas for women. the committee on women's rights proposed that the report also include a requirement to evaluate the invisible work of women in caring for family members, the home, and the upbringing and education of children. we proposed that eurostat examine the importance of the family for cohesion policy. we wanted this report to recognize the unpaid work of women in calculating health insurance and pensions. unfortunately, none of these recommendations have been implemented, which is why the report sometimes feels like social engineering to me.
european society faces many demographic challenges that will become much more acute in the coming decades. i am naturally very pleased to see life expectancy in the european union increasing, but i am aware that many european and national policies will need to be reviewed in the light of low birth rates, particularly in the areas of healthcare, pension systems, family support and intergenerational solidarity. i am surprised that the authors here are not able to support mainly full families consisting of a father and a mother, because it is clearer than the sun that there are many more children born there than in single-parent and part-parent families or in any other unions. specific actions will be implemented in european regions and cities facing new challenges and opportunities. it is therefore of particular importance that a debate on demographic change and on the latest trends takes place at regional and local level. because it is desirable to use the cohesion policy instruments in line with these indicators.
the european union's cohesion policy must reflect the current state and future developments in the union in order to be effective. that is why i very much welcome the initiative report by mrs westphal. europe's population is ageing, life expectancy is rising and birth rates are falling. demographic change is often perceived as a problem, but it can lead to new challenges in many regions of the european union. however, regions and cities need their own initiatives and strategies, but guidance and coordination are needed. regional policy is a key tool for tackling demographic change, which is why i support the proposal for structural policy reform, where i consider it important to create social infrastructure and help an ageing population. i also welcome, of course, the urban development plans, the strategy of caring for each generation, the importance of adequately supporting children and young people, the middle generation and families, as well as the elderly, by ensuring their active participation in the life of society. the more vulnerable part of the population - children, young school leavers, the unemployed, women, the poor, immigrants and the elderly - also needs to be targeted. of course, the effectiveness of such a policy requires coordination between the authorities at all levels.
i agree that social services of general interest should not be restrictive in nature and should be accessible to all citizens irrespective of income and wealth. i believe that the role of local, regional and national authorities is important in providing affordable services to citizens. i agree that state aid rules should strictly respect the principle of subsidiarity and guarantee the freedom of choice of local and regional authorities in the organisation, financing and delivery of public services. state aid should stimulate local entrepreneurship, the local economy and help create local jobs. the infrastructure needs to be upgraded and access to it without restrictions, especially in the regions with the greatest shortages in this area. ensure quality services through efficient use of resources at affordable prices for all citizens. and last but not least, we need sustainable and high-quality jobs.
as several decisions and provisions governing the union's state aid rules for services of general economic interest expire at the end of this year, it will be necessary to revise those rules. experience with the application of the current rules tells us that the administrative burden resulting from their application has been excessive and disproportionate, especially for small local authorities, and that several key terms have created misunderstandings and legal uncertainty. therefore, when revising the rules, we must strive to make the new legal instruments simpler, clearer and more understandable. they must be adapted to the environment in which they will be applied so that they can be used in the environment of small local authorities as effectively and efficiently as in more complex cases. only in this way can we contribute to a greater expansion of the necessary services of general economic interest throughout the european union.
the rapporteur of the committee on culture and education, asked for an opinion. − i would like to highlight the importance of education in the fight against poverty and also the crucial role of volunteering and active citizenship as instruments of cohesion and of combating economic, social and environmental disparities, as they encourage citizens to engage in public life through sport, culture, the arts, social and political activities. for example, the youth on the move initiative is also an important tool in the fight against poverty, helping to promote mobility for all apprentices, trainees and students and the recognition of professional skills acquired in an informal and non-formal way. anyway, this is a huge challenge and a huge problem for a society that's been exacerbated by the global crisis. i therefore call on member states to develop the most effective strategies to fight poverty and social exclusion, to ensure quality education and training is available to all, and to make more concrete investments in their national reform plans. measures aimed at cultural and linguistic integration into the host country are particularly important to overcome social exclusion. despite the general austerity in europe, let us not forget solidarity and the target of reducing the number of poor people by 20 million by 2020.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has also adopted a report on the situation in the european union. - madam president, commissioner, this report is the result of a major collaboration with civil society associations such as the international atd fourth world movement. when the world day against poverty was established, joseph wresinski said: "where men are condemned to live in poverty, human rights are violated. to unite to enforce them is a sacred duty". i thank the rapporteur for including the issue of respect for human rights in his report. i would like to propose an oral amendment for a vote in plenary to clarify this concern in the next multiannual programme of the fundamental rights agency. this proposal is in line with the opinion of the committee on women's rights, for which i am the rapporteur.
as a consequence of the economic and financial crisis of 2008, economic growth in europe is slowing down, with serious consequences for the living standards of the european population. one of the most serious manifestations of the decline in living standards is the sharp increase in poverty. while i appreciate the efforts of the european institutions to combat poverty and social exclusion in a comprehensive way i would point out that all the measures proposed need to be funded. economic growth in the union has virtually stalled and it is becoming increasingly difficult for member states to raise money to cover their public debt on the financial markets. the only way to obtain funds for social benefits, unemployment benefits, food aid or social housing is therefore to try to redistribute them differently within the current potential of the municipal, regional and state budgets. in this respect, i also consider the draft budget of the european union for 2012 to be insufficient, since it increases the amount of money allocated to the fight against poverty by only 3,3% compared with the previous year, while wasting european money on meaningless activities such as the house of european history and the regular monthly relocation of the parliament between strasbourg and brussels.
madam president! i would like to highlight mr. daerden's good quality of having a multidimensional perspective on poverty. i'd like to add a comment to that. social exclusion has far-reaching implications for the future of democracy, and i think we need to look at that as well. i would like to make two comments on the report. in 2008, we had 80 million poor people, and now we're talking about 100 million, and 20 million of them are children. clearly, tackling child poverty must be a priority, because it is the human resources of the future that are at stake. but what about the rest of them? it is also clear that extreme poverty in europe is intolerable and a real affront to human dignity. i think that should be one of the priorities. the other thing i want to talk about very briefly is poverty monitoring. because we're still working with three years of data, and we don't really know what the crisis has done to poverty. extreme poverty is likely to have deepened. and what i want to say about this is that it's not enough to measure relative poverty, because there are huge differences between countries, and if you were to derive the concept of minimum income from this, it could create big pitfalls.
the european union is one of the most developed and richest regions in the world. yet the sad fact remains that 116 million people in the eu live in poverty and 80 million are at risk of poverty, 20 million of whom are children. the increase in poverty in recent years is not only a consequence of the economic or financial crisis, but is mainly the result of inadequately implemented and weak policies to reduce and subsequently eliminate poverty. in this respect, the europe 2020 strategy also sets targets of 20 million people at risk of poverty, but failure to achieve this result is not even associated with any sanctions. i would like to reiterate that the european union's mission, as set out in the treaties, includes promoting social justice and combating social exclusion. finally, i would like to say that attention must be paid to all citizens, but especially to the most vulnerable, such as the elderly and the disabled.
in writing. the economic crisis is affecting everyone in the eu and is adding to the number of people at risk of poverty, which was already 80 million across the union before the crisis. there is also a crisis i would like to comment on in the report. the acute 'crisis' measures are in fact completely overshadowing the europe 2020 measures. in particular, these are inclusive growth, poverty and social exclusion reduction targets and policies to increase investment in social sphere. i would also like to invite the commission to analyse the social impact of the anti-crisis measures adopted. i would be very interested to know what the commission estimates as the social impact of the austerity policy, the economic management package or the euro plus pact. i believe that these measures are wrong at this time precisely because they ignore the issues of poverty and social exclusion. the commission should therefore set up an independent monitoring mechanism to examine these concerns in practice. and finally, just one little specific note about the platform's texture. it refers to "social experimentation". although the context makes it clear that this refers to innovative policies to combat poverty, i would recommend replacing this wording, as it has a very negative connotation.
i have a question for commissioner ciolos. one of the biggest problems facing the cap today is the problem of the disparity in the level of subsidies, with the new member states from central and eastern europe in particular being heavily discriminated against. in the new proposal for the common agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020, the limitation of the ceiling for direct payments, the so-called stacking, is again problematic. could you please explain to me, commissioner, briefly, your motivation for this measure?
do you realise, commissioner, that the large farms which will be affected by this measure can easily avoid this restriction by formally splitting up into smaller units and then running the business in smaller units?
madam president, in agreement with the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs, i propose to include a new paragraph 28a (new), which reads as follows: 'invites the council to include the subject of extreme poverty and fundamental rights among the thematic areas in the next multiannual framework of the fundamental rights agency'. a small explanation: the fundamental rights dimension is in the draft resolution. my oral amendment is aimed at clarifying the institutional purpose.
the eu needs a strategic approach to consumer policy and its close coordination with other union policies. consumer dissatisfaction with the functioning of many services, in particular banking and financial services, and with the quality and safety of some goods, resulting from a lack of awareness of consumer rights and the obligations of providers, must be addressed in the eu's political and legal response to this issue. the priority of consumer policy, in my view, must remain the protection of consumers especially children from dangerous products. the high level of safety of consumer products in the eu must therefore be effectively guaranteed by the competent authorities and market surveillance agencies in the food, chemical and pharmaceutical industries and in the agricultural sector, which directly affect the health of european union citizens through their products on a daily basis.
i will always support the consumer's right to truthful information about the products or services they want to buy. this information can be used to make a responsible decision. the legal order must clearly guarantee every consumer the right to go to court if he feels deceived or harmed. as an mep, i have worked for years with consumer associations and helped them to defend these rights. i am also a little embarrassed by the significant growth in the volume of the consumer agenda that the commission is coming up with. let's not underestimate the intelligence of the man who decides how to spend the money he earns. let's not take away his responsibility. the relationship between the buyer and the seller is a relationship of trust. if this relationship is distorted, both the trust and the responsibility of the two parties involved disappear. i supported the report, even though i think that too much regulation paradoxically reinforces dishonesty of both sellers and buyers.
smoking is bad for your health. tobacco advertising is driving the growth of smoking. so the company is increasingly restricting this advertising. although healthcare is a matter for member states, the regulation of the sale of tobacco products is pan-european. poverty is also bad for health. addicted gambling leads to poverty. but in this case the responsibility lies with the member states. both smoking and gambling are harmful and addictive. but while member states can act effectively in regulating cigarette sales, the european union does. however, we propose that the regulation of online gambling should respect the different cultural traditions in the member states. i supported the report, but i have two questions. what do we mean by subsidiarity? does it apply only when it suits us?
in writing. − the second council directive 77/91/eec of december 1976 on coordination of safeguard measures which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by member states of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of article 58 of the treaty, in respect of the formation of public limited liability companies and the maintenance and alteration of their capital, with a view to making such measures equivalent has been substantially amended several times. in the interests of clarity, it is appropriate to recast this regulation in order to allow for further amendments. the consultative working party, composed of the relevant legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, examined the proposal submitted by the commission at its meetings and, after examining it, concluded that it did not contain any substantive changes (apart from the proposed amendment to the draft recast text) and also concluded that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of earlier acts together with those amendments, the proposal was merely a clear and simple codification of the existing acts without any change in their substance.
in writing. − accession to the athens convention on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea is an issue to which the european union and the european parliament itself have devoted attention for some time. the convention was concluded back in 1974 and focused on the safety of passenger ships and the rights of passengers. however, it was considered to be insufficient and it is therefore desirable to incorporate in its content amendments concerning, in particular, the liability of the carrier, compulsory insurance, limitation of liability for death and personal injury, loss of or damage to luggage and vehicles. by means of a protocol adopted on 1 november 2002, the athens convention was amended to cover these key elements. taking into account that the most pressing issues were already covered by the protocol, the commission proposed in 2003 that the eu, together with the member states, become parties to the protocol. the union now has exclusive competence to accede to the protocol to the athens convention as regards the matters covered by that regulation, and other aspects of the protocol not covered by the regulation fall within the competence of the member states. in the light of the procedure applicable to international agreements, accession to the protocol is submitted to parliament for assent and i believe that it is equally appropriate for the committee on transport and tourism to deliver a favourable opinion on the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. − air services between the european union and jordan are currently operated under bilateral agreements between individual member states and jordan. the european commission is now proposing a much more ambitious agreement to replace the bilateral set of agreements by creating a euro-mediterranean airspace between the union and jordan. the agreement establishes uniform conditions for air carriers in all 27 member states and should benefit them irrespective of their nationality. the commission notes that the agreement between the eu and jordan on the air carrier aoc was signed on 27 june 2015 and entered into force on 1 january 2015. the objective of that agreement is to progressively open up markets, to establish non-discriminatory and equal conditions for economic operators on the basis of the eu treaties and to bring jordanian aviation legislation into line with eu legislation as regards safety, security and air traffic management. as the agreement covers not only areas falling within the eu's competence but also areas falling within the competence of the member states, its conclusion requires ratification at eu level as well as in the parliaments of the member states. i am convinced that the conclusion of the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement with jordan is in the interest of the citizens and businesses of the union and in line with the european neighbourhood policy. for this reason too, it is justified for the european parliament to give its consent to its conclusion.
in writing. − the european union is very systematically developing good neighbourly relations with all the neighbouring regions. this dimension, particularly in the mediterranean area, is of particular importance for the southern eu member states, led in this case by france. some member states have an air service agreement, but several, such as the slovak republic, do not yet have such an agreement. i welcome agreements such as the eu-jordan agreement, especially for the positive effect of the agreement in opening up the market to all member states in a non-discriminatory manner. it also saves time and money for those who did not have an agreement.
in writing. − if you have the agreement is international in nature, governing the relations concerning airspace between the european union, its 27 member states and georgia. it aims to create a common airspace between the eu and georgia and is intended to replace the existing bilateral agreements governing air services between the two parties. the agreement was signed by the council on 2 december 2010 and will be applied on a provisional basis until its entry into force. the commission notes that the air carrier air astana has been granted a marketing authorisation for the carriage of passengers by air from the republic of georgia to the european union. the commission notes that the agreement between georgia and the union on the extension of the aoc to the union was signed on 27 june 2014 and entered into force on 1 january 2014. however, the consent of the european parliament is necessary for the conclusion of the agreement. i believe that it is appropriate and necessary for the committee on transport and tourism to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. − relations between the european union and georgia are very important in several areas, the aviation agreement being their practical implementation in the field of transport. for reasons of efficiency and cost reduction similar to jordan, the member states in the slovak republic strongly supported the negotiations on this agreement. for states in adjacent regions directly on the european continent, as is the case for georgia, there is another important factor that is related to the construction of the so-called single european sky (ses single european sky). the european union is working to integrate neighbouring countries into this common space, in addition to all its member states. that is what makes this agreement all the more important and why i support it fully.
in writing. − in september 2010, the spanish government, on behalf of the government of the canary islands, requested an extension of the suspension of autonomous common customs tariff duties for a number of products, stating in the grounds of the request that, due to the remoteness of the islands, economic operators suffer from extremely adverse economic and commercial disadvantages that have a negative impact on demographic trends, employment, social and economic development. the recent economic crisis has seriously affected the canary islands' industry sector, together with construction, and adverse financial conditions have had a serious impact on many areas of business. in addition, the sharp rise in unemployment in spain has further deepened the decline in domestic demand, including demand for industrial products. however, it is necessary to ensure that only economic operators established in the territory of the canary islands benefit from these customs measures. in the event of a disruption of trade and in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this regulation, it is appropriate to confer implementing powers on the commission to allow it to temporarily withdraw that suspension, if necessary. in any event, i consider that, in order to strengthen the competitive position of local economic operators and to stabilise employment, it is justified to extend the abovementioned period of complete suspension of autonomous common customs tariff duties for certain goods for the canary islands.
in writing. − the structure of the framework programme, to be implemented through indirect actions and implementing the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training (2012-2013), consists of two types of activities: indirect actions for fusion energy research and nuclear fission and radiation protection research, and direct actions for the activities of the joint research centre for nuclear energy. indirect actions should be implemented under this specific programme. the european union has concluded a number of international treaties in the field of nuclear research and efforts to strengthen international research cooperation need to continue. this bilateral international cooperation is based on a solid legal framework of cooperation agreements between the eu and third countries and the framework programme is essential for the implementation of those agreements. the programme covers research in the fields of nuclear fusion, nuclear fission and radiation protection. the basic objective is to ensure that eu-funded research in the above areas continues for another two years in line with the activities successfully implemented in 2007 2011.
in writing. − differences in the insolvency laws of the member states give companies with crossborder activities competitive advantages and disadvantages and difficulties that could become obstacles to the successful restructuring of insolvent companies. even though it is not possible to establish a body of substantive bankruptcy law at european union level, there are certain areas of insolvency law where harmonisation can be achieved. bankruptcy law should be a tool for rescuing undertakings at union level and, wherever such rescue is possible, it is to the benefit of the debtor, creditors and employees. at the same time, i believe that it is desirable to create a legal framework that is more suited to the situation of temporary insolvency of companies. however, in each individual case, it is necessary to examine the reasons for the insolvency of the undertaking and to determine whether it is merely a case of temporary financial difficulties or of complete insolvency. similarly, the interconnection of national insolvency registers and the subsequent creation of a universally accessible and comprehensive eu insolvency database would allow creditors, shareholders, employees and courts to ascertain whether insolvency proceedings have been opened in another member state, as well as the dates and details of the lodging of claims. such steps would promote a cost-effective administration and increase transparency while respecting data protection.
in writing. − the european union has the oldest population in the world, and tackling demographic change is one of the key challenges for the future. demographic change affects regions differently, and this is driven by a number of factors. the appropriate response to this challenge requires different adaptation strategies. for example, it is clear that the quality of life in regions with a declining population especially in rural areas is defined differently than in regions with an increasing population. however, i believe that in finding the optimal solution, it is essential to take into account the individual needs of different population groups in all circumstances. in order to respond to the challenges of demographic change, it is also important to seek to create conditions that enable the reconciliation of the working, family and private lives of the citizens of the member states of the european union. it is also important to improve coordination between the responsible authorities at all levels so that positive progress can be made, for example through the exchange of experience and good practice on the issue. if we make the necessary efforts to address demographic change appropriately and find answers at european, national and regional levels, europe will not be a threat but an opportunity.
in writing. − europe's population is ageing rapidly, with the longest life expectancy and the lowest population growth rate in the world. the birth rate per woman remains below the survival rate of 2.1 children, while life expectancy is increasing. demographic change is posing new challenges for many regions of the european union. the european commission's communication on promoting solidarity between regions states that the rights of all generations must be guaranteed. the diversity of challenges requires that regions and cities develop their own strategies. this is a fundamental competence of the member states, so it is clear that the regions need to be proactive and to do so they need guidance and perspectives. in the 2007-13 funding period, member states allocated almost eur 30 billion (i.e. 8,5% of the structural funds) to this type of measure in their operational programmes. regional policy is thus a key tool for tackling demographic change. in future, the structural funds should be better adapted to the challenges of demographic change and should be recognised as a horizontal priority in their operational programmes. demographic indicators shall also be taken into account in the regional distribution of structural assistance. i find the expert opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs particularly useful.
in writing. - according to the latest findings, the earth's population has recently reached seven billion people. demographic change in the eu and worldwide is a reality and tackling it is one of the key challenges of the present and the future. the situation is different in every part of the world, and the same is true of the european union, where the regions differ. this irreversible change primarily affects cohesion policy. the constant movement of people, whether within the eu or from third countries, will sooner or later force us to reassess and update this policy. such changes will include, in particular, structural policy reforms, urban development and housing projects aimed at supporting families, children and the elderly. last but not least, it will include tackling immigration and unemployment. these reforms will only be achieved through close cooperation between member states. but whatever the change or reform, it is necessary to address it with particular regard to the most vulnerable sections of the population, such as children and unmarried mothers.
in writing. − if you have when the financial crisis peaked in september 2008, the competent authorities in several member states and the united states of america took exceptional measures to restrict or prohibit the short-term sale of some or all securities. as the union does not have a specific legal framework for short selling, the measures taken by the member states differed. in the interests of the functioning of financial markets and to ensure a high level of consumer and investor confidence, it is important to harmonise the framework for short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps, in particular in order to preserve financial stability. the fact that the provisions of the framework are presented in the form of regulations is justified. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. they also delegate powers to the european securities and markets authority (esma). the prohibition of so-called uncovered short selling is also justified. the current debt crisis shows how speculators, who do not even own the bonds of eurozone member countries, but only bet on them, can bring about the collapse of entire states. it is therefore important that only bondholders can engage in the insurance of securities through credit default swaps. last but not least, the powers of the european securities and markets authority (esma) should be strengthened. i am of the opinion that it should be the ministers of finance, and not esma, who will decide in so-called exceptional situations.
in writing. − the importance of the agricultural sector for the economic, social and cultural development of europe is widely recognised. fruit and wine production is a key area of agricultural activity in the european union. council regulation (eec) no 357/79 of 5 february 1979 on the statistical surveys of areas under vines and directive 2001/109/ec of 19 december 2001 on the statistical surveys to be carried out by the member states in order to determine the production potential of fruit trees of certain species provide for the establishment of an information system on the statistics on the most important permanent crops at european level. the current availability of the permanent crop statistics system in the european union would not be possible without the aforementioned legislation. however, the data still need to be updated. indeed, there is still room to improve the comparability and completeness of the framework by making greater efforts to harmonise variables and concepts and by giving member states greater freedom to choose the methods and resources they use to collect the basic data needed to compile these european statistics. member states, stakeholders and commission services have called for changes to the legal basis for permanent crop statistics over the years and i also believe that it is appropriate to update, simplify and optimise the existing legal framework for european permanent crop statistics and to replace the two existing legal acts with a single legal act.
in writing. − the european community framework programme for research and training in the field of atomic energy (2012 2013) is to be implemented through specific programmes, which define the detailed rules for its implementation, determine its duration and provide for the means deemed necessary. the structure of the framework programme (2012 2013) consists of two types of activities: indirect actions for fusion energy research and nuclear fission and radiation protection research and direct actions for the activities of the joint research centre in the field of nuclear energy. direct actions should be implemented under the current specific programme. the joint research centre (jrc) should carry out research and training activities through so-called direct actions under the jrc specific programme implementing the euratom framework programme 2012 to 2013. in fulfilling its mission, the jrc should provide scientific and technical support to the eu policy-making process based on customer requirements, provide support for the implementation and monitoring of existing policies and respond to new policy requirements. in implementing this specific programme, i believe that attention should also be paid to promoting the mobility and training of researchers and to fostering innovation in the european union.
in writing. − the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training for the years 2012 to 2013 has the same overall scope and principles as the seventh framework programme of the community adopted by council decision 2006/970/euratom of 18 december 2006 on the seventh framework programme of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for nuclear research and training (2007 to 2011). the commission shall be responsible for the implementation of the programme and its specific programmes, including the related financial aspects. the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities should provide a coherent, comprehensive and transparent framework to ensure the most efficient possible implementation, taking into account the need for easy access for all participants through simplified procedures in accordance with the principle of proportionality. it is desirable to continue to facilitate the exploitation of the intellectual property of participants, while also taking into account the way in which a participant may be organised at international level and also protecting the legitimate interests of other participants and the community.
in writing. − if you have the free movement of an increasing number of highly qualified persons and workers is one of the key benefits of european cooperation and a competitive internal market. there is a need to strengthen labour mobility for eu citizens and to remove indirect barriers to facilitate the balance between mobility and the quality of professional qualifications. ensuring the optimal functioning of the system for the recognition of professional qualifications is a prerequisite for enabling everyone to enjoy fully the benefits of freedom of movement. one of the main reasons for the difficulties in the recognition of academic degrees and professional qualifications is the lack of confidence in the criteria for accreditation and awarding academic certificates in the country of origin. for this reason, it is urgent to introduce measures aimed at automatic recognition, to seek to remove prejudices and formal national obstacles to recognition. it is necessary to promote dialogue and exchange of information within the various professions and to improve cooperation between competent authorities at national level and between member states. the free movement of persons within the eu and the right to recognition of professional qualifications and merits can only exist if existing invisible barriers are reduced to a minimum and if certain national rules that currently disproportionately hinder the exercise of the right to skilled work are removed.
in writing. − the european commission plans to publish a consumer agenda in may 2012. this agenda should cover all the important issues and problems we face in the consumer field. it is expected to be a landmark in eu consumer policy, giving concrete meaning for the first time to the eu treaty principle that consumers' interests must be taken into account in all other relevant union policies. ensuring food safety, health and product safety all of this should be a top priority of the consumer agenda. i believe that it is also justified, among other things, to strengthen consumer rights. enhanced consumers are better able to identify the best prices, sales conditions and quality, thereby contributing to the advancement of competition and innovation. i consider it particularly important that the competent institutions should be able to guarantee special protection for groups of consumers who are particularly vulnerable because of their mental, physical or psychological weakness, their age at which they are very trusting or their vulnerability due to their difficult social and financial situation. i believe that it is essential to pay due attention to the proper application of all legislation which has an impact on consumer policy. it is the european parliament, together with national parliaments, which should, through close cooperation with each other, contribute to their better enforcement by advocating consumer protection.
in writing. − currently, about 10% of all gambling is conducted via the internet or similar means. also of concern is the fact that online gambling is on the rise. online gambling knows virtually no borders and is expanding without major restrictions. however, the european market is very different when it comes to gambling. member states largely determine how they regulate their gambling sectors. however, such different regulation significantly distorts the market and negatively affects competitiveness. i am therefore firmly convinced that it is necessary to restrict the unregulated black market that operates in this way and that a total ban is one option, provided that it is strictly enforced and adhered to. another, no less serious problem is the risk of addiction and also the risk of underage gambling. it is therefore necessary to support existing efforts to prevent gambling addiction by establishing european-wide standards aimed at protecting minors, combating pathological gambling, but also combating money laundering and other gambling-related crime. i am convinced that such a drive for common action can be crucial to ensuring a uniform and high level of minimum consumer protection throughout europe.
in writing. - gambling and the gambling industry are highly controversial topics. this type of business often raises concerns on the part of both citizens and politicians. but the question of whether we consider this kind of business to be right or wrong is not up to us to decide, it is up to the citizens themselves to decide. with online gambling, the situation is further complicated by the fact that the operator of the service may operate its business from a different member state than its user. nevertheless, i agree that the regulation of online gambling should remain a competence of the member states. such activity cannot be fought, the only option is to accept it and regulate it according to clear rules. our first duty is to protect the vulnerable, such as children and young people. another priority is the fight against illegal gambling, since only legal forms of such business can be properly taxed and the proceeds used appropriately, for example to promote and develop sport.
in writing. − if you have the beekeeping sector provides income for more than 600 000 citizens of the european union and is an integral part of european agriculture. beekeeping also provides important ecosystem services through pollination. it is also part of europe's agricultural heritage and national traditions. it's essentially a unique industry in its own way, because it's about the breeding of insects, semi-feral animals that can't be domesticated or directly controlled like other species. however, in the member states of the european union and the rest of the world, bee mortality has been reported recently, bee populations have declined and pollinating species that contribute to agricultural production are in decline. changing climatic and environmental conditions, loss of biodiversity of plant species, land use change, but also incorrect beekeeping practices result in weakening the immune system of bee colonies. that is why i think we need to monitor how the environment, beekeeping practices and farming techniques affect bee health. at the same time, it is also of great importance to continuously support scientific research in the field of honeybee health. last but not least, it is equally important to shift and strengthen the relationship between beekeepers and beekeeping organisations in the member states, as beekeepers themselves are keen to contribute to the health and well-being of their bees.
in writing. − i consider important, especially in times of crisis, that we send a clear message: that europe is ready to support with concrete measures the sectors in crisis and that none will be left behind. there is a key link in this report between the need to preserve a quality driven agriculture and the fundamental challenge to preserve the biodiversity and this should also be in my view the strong link behind the reform of the common agricultural policy. i'm really glad to see that in the text this link is present and that there is a constructive attitude to bring some constructive input also on that discussion that we are going soon to start. i would like to close by reminding the necessity to invest in a quality and sustainable agricultural system that could stand the competition with other regional markets and relaunch the consumption of 0km products. for this i would like to welcome the proposal to boost also in the apiculture sector the eu origin labelling schemes that could recognize the work done by the beekeepers that want to invest in quality and biological productions.
in writing. − services of general interest are not only crucial for individual citizens, but also important for the prosperity of society as a whole. these services are quite diverse in nature and all have something in common. we are talking about services that the state or public authorities consider to be of particular importance to citizens. the provision of these services also contributes to social, economic and territorial cohesion in the eu. the europe 2020 growth strategy is being successfully implemented, particularly in the areas of employment, education and social inclusion. social services of general interest are of particular importance, as they are of priority importance for the safeguarding and implementation of fundamental rights and are largely deserving of equal opportunities. the effort to simplify the rules for the provision of these services could have further contributed to their better application. it is undeniable that services of general economic interest must be of a high standard and accessible to all sections of the population. at the same time, it is necessary to protect the specific tasks and nature of social services of general interest. for these services to be able to fulfil their specific function properly, all citizens of the member states should be able to have equal access to them, regardless of income or wealth.
in writing. − while state aid for services of general economic interest is primarily the responsibility of the individual states and it is essential to respect the principle of subsidiarity in this context, it is necessary that this area should operate on the basis of principles and conditions as part of the legislative framework as regards economic and financial conditions. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission has started to consider, in dialogue with the interested parties, the re-examination and clarification of the rules on the financing of services of general economic interest. i also welcome the commission's approach to simplification, greater transparency and proportionality with regard to legal instruments and less administrative burden. services of general economic interest must be accessible to all citizens and must be of the highest possible standard. in particular, it is necessary to ensure that member states make social services available to all sections of the population without distinction. to take more account of efficiency aspects, they should not only focus on economic criteria but also take into account social, territorial and environmental aspects, while taking into account criteria such as quality, results and sustainability. the quality.
in writing. − although the european union is one of the richest regions in the world, 80 million people live in poverty. of these, 20 million are children and 8% are in the labour force. moreover, the most vulnerable people in our societies have been hit hardest by the economic crisis. the situation of the lowest earners has continued to deteriorate and they now face a much greater risk of debt and insolvency. the fight against social exclusion, the promotion of social justice and fundamental rights have long been the main objectives and priorities of the union, which is founded on the values of respect for human dignity and solidarity. the european parliament and the council have declared 2010 the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. in addition, the european commission published a communication in december 2010 entitled 'a european platform against poverty and social exclusion: a european framework for social and territorial cohesion'. it is one of the seven flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to reduce the number of people in vulnerable situations by 20 million by 2020. the platform's efforts are primarily to promote innovation and reduce poverty in its various forms. poverty is a multidimensional phenomenon that requires an integrated response involving different levels of public authority from the european to the local level.
i'm gonna start off on the positive side, too. i would like to thank the commission for its commitment at this difficult time, because, indeed, planning a programme in such turbulent times is difficult. on the other hand, there is parliament and it is our duty to alert the commission to any possible lapses in this planning, so let me mention two points which i consider important. first, the commission must focus on adopting a hard-line regulation of financial markets. in the future, it is essential that measures to improve the resilience of the financial system are complemented by measures to prevent the emergence of risks as well as measures to reduce costs in the event of default. the second point i would like to make is what we recommended to the commission on a similar occasion in parliament a few months ago. it will be necessary to regulate entities that are closely linked to banking systems and provide similar services but are not subject to the same legislation. the so-called shadow banking, which is already in real competition with the official banking system in terms of volume, must be brought under control. the last sentence i want to recall is also from the discussion earlier. it is the need to take action to combat deepening poverty and social exclusion.
the european commission's work programme in a period of economic stagnation, when poverty is deepening in families and when member states are no longer able to borrow for their survival, must be more creative, capable of reflecting the changes that have taken place in europe and the world since the onset of the global crisis. those of us who saw the collapse of incompetent communist regimes in eastern europe remember how their leaders were unable to respond quickly to changes in the developing world. like the president of the commission, they spoke publicly of their visions and goals without shame, while they watched helplessly as the economic systems of their countries collapsed hopelessly. do not go, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, this way. consider whether there is no need today for europe to address operational problems other than simply continuing to fulfil the vision of the 2020 strategy. i am convinced that a greater emphasis on taking swift and effective measures to create growth and jobs would certainly not hurt us.
ahead of the forthcoming durban conference, there are a number of key points to be made about the union's position. first, the union must formulate its position in a timely and unambiguous manner. we have to present our solutions and we have to be very consistent in communicating them and enforcing them. we must also make clear our support for the continuation of the kyoto protocol, as it expires at the end of next year. it is an absolutely clear requirement and a very clear indicator of the success or failure of the durban summit. if the kyoto protocol were not to be continued after 2012, durban would go down in history as the scene of the defeat of global efforts to bring climate change under control. but i am also convinced that this would unfortunately also show the failure of the european union's influence in this area. so far, we are optimistic and believe that the union will not only become the leader, but that the conference will turn out well.
the mdgs were a megalomaniac plan. in projects involving public money, few care about the outcome. no one feels personal responsibility, only political. political responsibility is often just an empty word. it's the year 2011. i am convinced that the millennium development goals will not be achieved. the european union will also be blamed. it is absurd, but in a time of crisis, few european politicians will advocate at home for increased development aid when unemployment is rising, pensions and health care are at risk, and their own citizens are dependent on food aid. development aid is justifiable only if it is targeted and transparent, if the donor and the recipient are individuals, families, small communities and, at most, the state. where the personal dimension of aid is lost, there is waste, corruption, market distortion and top-level conferences.
it is true that when we are in crisis ourselves, we tend to think less of others. this is why the issue of underdevelopment and poverty in the so-called developing world is being pushed into the background. but the gap between the rich north and the poor south is still vast, and the crisis is making the absolute level of this inequality or disaster even worse. however, the crisis itself could provide the impetus for more bold and ambitious policies to promote and meet development goals. at a time when the budgets of the union's member states are being depleted, more emphasis should be placed on alternative sources of financing for development. and let's be honest, the most important resources are being lost through tax havens. legislation to curb them could bring increased revenues that could also be invested in the development of poorer countries. the same applies to the financial transaction tax revenue. in my view, it is a great pity that, because of the right-wing objections, the resolution omitted references to a legally binding mechanism that would force multinational corporations to automatically disclose the tax data applicable in the countries in which they operate.
for the ppe group. the european union is a global leader in development aid. each year, we send hundreds of millions of euros to our partners in africa, the caribbean and the pacific. it is up to experts to decide whether this work is effective, sufficient, and whether its structure and rules make sense. they draw up reports, reports, assessments, recommendations. europe acts on the basis of these documents. but the importance of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is also something else: it provides the ground for regular face-to-face meetings of elected representatives of parliaments, an opportunity to talk about problems at the level. joint discussions on problematic topics allow us to understand each other, to say the essential things that we cannot find in any report, to explain positions that would otherwise often go unheard. the cotonou agreement is key to cooperation between europe and the african, caribbean and pacific states. the joint parliamentary assembly plays an indispensable role in the implementation of this agreement, not least by giving a real human dimension to the figures and tables on the amount of development aid. i congratulate my colleague kaczmark on the preparation of this report.
for the efd group. mr filip kaczmarek presented the report on the activities of the joint parliamentary assembly of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and the european union for 2010. in addition to listing the individual activities of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, the report also highlights a certain disharmony in the representation of the european union in the implementation of the cotonou partnership agreement. the absence of an official council delegation at the 20th meeting of the kinshasa group, which was the meeting to discuss the second revision of the agreement, is clear evidence of this. the report also draws attention to the dangerous phenomenon of land grabbing in poor developing countries, which leads to the plundering of the livelihoods of local small land users, their loss of access to land and the food security of the population. the urgency of this situation is also the reason why the joint parliamentary assembly and the european commission are called upon to support the full rights of indigenous peoples to land by the parliaments and governments of the acp countries and to introduce effective measures to prevent the massive accumulation of this land. although the report shows that political dialogue on the ground in the joint parliamentary assembly is becoming more qualitative, access to some topics, such as the status of women, gender violence or trafficking in human beings, remains an unresolved problem in many countries. the report describes the benefits and reservations of the work of the joint parliamentary assembly and confirms the need for a permanent dialogue with the countries represented in the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group.
for the s&d group. i would certainly like to begin by thanking and congratulating the rapporteur, mrs chrysoule paliadeli, and our committee as a whole, and commissioner vassilliou, for having managed to put together a really good text and to push this idea through parliament's deliberations. unfortunately, of course, she didn't get her time until ten o'clock, which is perhaps a little bit of a bummer. maybe we could swap the economy discussion for a culture discussion sometime in the morning, but, of course, back to the point. of course, i welcome this initiative as it is unique and different from the unesco world heritage list and the council of europe's european cultural route initiative. i consider it important because it can strengthen local and regional identity and also european integration. the label is intended to promote the common cultural heritage of the member states, while respecting national and regional diversity and promoting the cultural diversity of the territory. it is important that citizens know europe and appreciate the sights and know-how of the regions and cities, thus strengthening a sense of belonging to the european union. the brand can also enhance the attractiveness of european cities and regions, thereby promoting growth and employment at local and regional level. i also welcome the fact that it is not about protecting sites as such, but rather that these monuments can offer an educational and educational dimension, especially to young people. of course, in this context it is important that we disguise such an intergovernmental initiative with a european brand and disguise it with the brand of the european union. there's no reason why we can't. it's a great project and it's working, and the european union is interested in it. cooperation and support for culture in these difficult times at almost zero cost is an opportunity that must be seized. promoting education in culture, in the beauty within us, is important for the formation of future generations, and it is therefore in our interest to protect such monuments.
the enhancement and documentation of cultural heritage is part of the culture of every civilized society, with the aim of better disseminating shared values and selling them to future generations. the visibility of europeans' common cultural and christian heritage, that is, the promotion of common european values in terms of history and culture, gives the union a new dimension, closely linked to the deepening of mutual belonging. the future of the european union and its fundamental values depends on the extent to which citizens and civil society engage in long-term reflection on europe as a single cultural and value-based entity. in times of material crisis, economic or financial, when society needs to mobilise to take major decisions about its direction, it is particularly important to develop cultural dialogue and to increase the sense of co-ownership of the european union among its citizens. the vision of the future of the european union is based on common core values. the european cultural heritage label can therefore reflect and promote values such as freedom, democracy, respect for human rights, cultural diversity, tolerance and solidarity. in my view, special attention should also be paid to combating racism and xenophobia in the award of the prize. in conclusion, i would like to express my conviction that, through this label, we will also be able to contribute to the dissemination of knowledge about culture and history, and thus to the flowering of the diverse cultures of the member states and to the increase of mutual understanding between the citizens and peoples of europe.
in order to strengthen citizens' sense of belonging to the european union, the commission proposes to create a european heritage label, which should identify objects or sites that have symbolic value for european integration and the history of the european union. the participation of countries in its use is to be voluntary and each of the participating countries is to have the right to propose a maximum of two sites every two years to a group of independent experts, from which the jury will select one site for each country that receives the european heritage label. i appreciate that the european commission is already thinking of symbolically marking sites that are significantly linked to the building of the european union, in order to give young people a concrete idea of the processes and events that have shaped the union. however, this initiative should be implemented with great sensitivity and non-intrusive approach, especially at a time when, as a result of economic problems, citizens in many countries perceive the union as more of an insensitive dictator. the time has not yet come for citizens to judge for themselves whether the union is really helping them or not.
the december european council will discuss in particular the permanent mechanism for safeguarding the financial stability of the euro area and the related need to amend the treaty of lisbon. i am afraid, however, that these measures, although obviously necessary, will not be sufficient. it's going to be important to do a lot more. there are more effective alternatives, and citizens are rightly expecting them from us. on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, i would like to say that since the outbreak of the crisis in 2008, we have been proposing economically efficient and at the same time socially fair measures, whether it be the introduction of a financial transaction tax, or the regulation of international financial markets, tackling the problem of tax havens, tackling speculation aimed at the sovereignty of individual member states. last but not least, it is important that the necessary recapitalisation of banks is accompanied by measures to ensure public interest, transparency and accountability.
in writing. we all agree that imbalances need to be addressed and debt needs to be eliminated. on the other hand, we cannot allow europe to make the same mistake as it did 14 years ago, when the east asian crisis spread from country to country. tariff policy in one country has not only slowed down the economy of that country but has had a negative effect on others. excessive austerity is also a contagion that can bring economic decline to neighbors and drag others down. without measures to stimulate growth, this will not be sustainable. it is of the utmost importance that we maximise the use of european funds. if we had used them as planned, we would have had 2% higher economic growth, 1% higher employment and 1% higher labour productivity in the new member states.
in writing. the anniversary of the fall of communism in eastern europe is therefore a good opportunity to remind the whole of europe that socialist economic plans do not work. they create an illusion of prosperity that must one day end. the slovaks have experienced it. the opening of the market has shown us how inefficient the planned economy is. most companies were not able to compete in competitive conditions. the result was a fall in slovakia's gdp of over 23% between 1990 and 1993. in 1993, one family in five and one in four children were living below the poverty line. but there was no other way. this should also be borne in mind by those who today seek to avoid at all costs the painful but necessary measures to save the european economy. on november 17, slovaks and czechs chose the path of courage. people have given up on social security, which has become unsustainable. freely elected politicians had the courage to speak the unpleasant truth and do what was painful but necessary. the eu needs just that today - the courage to go even into the unknown. but three euro coins or two euro zones are more likely to convey fear and trembling.
in the european union, we are seeing a decline in the share of rail freight, with the share of less environmentally friendly road freight increasing to 45,9% over the same period. the opening up of the railway market in the eu therefore requires a revision and unification of railway legislation. i am convinced that the creation of competitive rail services will require additional investment in rail infrastructure, but the use of eu structural funds remains only one of many options. member states and the eu must seek alternative sources of financing for european rail projects, stimulate private investment and, above all, make the rail market attractive to private investors through a transparent legal environment.
in writing. − point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) via the flexibility instrument with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the relevant headings of the financial framework. on 9 june 2010, ireland submitted an application to mobilise the egf/2010/019. ie/construction 41 on a financial contribution from the egf following redundancies in 1 482 enterprises operating in nace revision 2 division 41 construction of buildings in the border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02) regions of ireland at nuts ii level. these two neighbouring regions make up the whole of the irish state. this application is one of three submitted concerning the construction sector in ireland. after a thorough examination of this application, the commission has concluded that the conditions for granting a financial contribution are met. i am also of the opinion that, in the light of the foregoing, the request submitted should be granted.
in writing. − the european union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who are feeling the effects of major structural changes in the world trade pattern and to help them re-enter the labour market. in accordance with the joint statement of the european parliament, the council and the commission, union financial assistance for redundant workers should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible. ireland has requested assistance in connection with the redundancies of 842 workers (of which 554 are affected) from 230 enterprises operating under nace revision 2 division 71 architectural and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis in the irish nuts ii regions of border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02). these two neighbouring regions make up the whole of ireland. since the application submitted meets the eligibility criteria set out in the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) regulation and the conditions for a financial contribution under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 have been met, financial assistance should be granted to ireland on the basis of the above. (short presentation)
in writing. − point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) via the flexibility instrument with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the relevant headings of the financial framework. appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments have been put in place by the european union to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. in june 2010, ireland submitted an application egf/2010/20 ie/construction 43 for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in 1 560 enterprises (3 382 redundancies, of which 2 228 are eligible for aid) operating in division 43 specialised construction nace revision 2 in the irish regions border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02) at nuts ii level. the application submitted is one of three applications concerning the construction sector in ireland. and since after a thorough examination the commission has come to the conclusion that all the conditions laid down for granting the financial assistance have been duly fulfilled, it is justified to grant the request.
in writing. − the european union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers who are feeling the effects of major structural changes in the world trade pattern and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has been extended for applications submitted from 1 may 2009 to include support for workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the egf to be mobilised through the flexibility instrument with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the corresponding headings of the financial framework. on 3 january 2011, austria submitted an application egf/2011/001 at/niederösterreich-oberösterreich for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in 706 enterprises in the nace revision 2 division 49 road and pipeline transport in the austrian regions of lower austria (niederösterreich) (at12) and upper austria (oberösterreich) (at31) at nuts ii level. after a thorough examination of the application, the commission has concluded that all the conditions laid down for granting the financial contribution have been met and that it is therefore in accordance with the relevant regulation to grant a financial contribution to austria.
in writing. − if you have point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to be mobilised through the flexibility instrument, with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the corresponding headings of the financial framework. in early may of that year, greece submitted an application egf/2011/004 el/aldi hellas for a financial contribution from the egf, in respect of redundancies in 642 workers in aldi hellas supermarket holding epe & assoc. e.e. and its supplier thessaloniki logistics s.a. in greece. the commission has examined the application submitted and has concluded that the conditions for granting a financial contribution under this regulation are met, in accordance with article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. it is therefore appropriate to grant greece's request for a financial contribution.
in writing. − the joint parliamentary assembly met twice in 2010. the 19th meeting was held in tenerife from 6 to 9 april. in addition to the reports of the standing committees, the meeting adopted resolutions on post-disaster reconstruction in haiti and on the situation in south sudan. six sets of conclusions on regional strategy papers were also adopted for the six acp regions. the 20th meeting was held in kinshasa from 30 november to 3 december. the assembly adopted three resolutions included in the reports of the standing committees and two urgent resolutions on food security and the situation in the sahel-saharan region and a declaration on the results of the presidential elections in côte d'ivoire. during the year, there was also one regional meeting on mahé. after 2009, when no joint parliamentary assembly fact-finding missions were organised, the acp secretariat was again able to finance the costs of three missions in 2010: madagascar, burundi and haiti. the joint parliamentary assembly has become a key player in the field of north-south cooperation through its high-quality work. the european commission is currently submitting country and regional strategy documents to the european parliament and the national parliaments of the acp countries for parliamentary scrutiny. it is important that the development committee and the psc monitor the situation and ensure the effective application of this instrument of parliamentary control.
in writing. − on 9 march 2010, the commission presented a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union initiative to promote the european heritage label. the proposal aims in particular to strengthen the sense of belonging of european citizens to the eu on the basis of common elements of history and heritage. particular attention is paid to the added value of the brand, which does not, however, speak of the beauty of the site or the quality of its architecture, but rather of the symbolic value for european integration and the history of the union. it is not about protecting the sites as such, but rather about the activities they can offer and their educational and training dimension, especially for young people. the proposal extends an intergovernmental initiative that started back in 2006. it responds to the conclusions adopted by the council in november 2008, which invited the commission to submit a proposal to transform this initiative into a formal union action. parliament's legislative resolution, which was adopted by a large majority at first reading, was accompanied by 62 amendments, most of which concerned matters of relatively minor importance and contributed to further improving the text. consequently, the first reading in the council is based on the agreement negotiated after the first reading in parliament. i consider it appropriate that the council's position at first reading be adopted without amendments and without further delay.
in writing. − during the debate on this decision, the french senate raised the issue of a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. national parliaments must always remain vigilant during the legislative process. there are already two similar tools: the unesco world heritage list and the council of europe's european cultural itineraries. do we really need another one? the 'european heritage' label aims to draw attention to sites or monuments and their symbolism for europe. emphasis shall be placed on promotion, as well as on presenting more detailed explanations of their european dimension and on the organisation of educational activities for young people. it is time to re-emphasise the importance of religious heritage in shaping european consciousness. the label is primarily a tool for promoting national awareness through local heritage or it also speaks of the european significance of the object. to get rid of the official denial of christian roots, sacred sites and monuments should also be marked. whether it's the vendée or the spišské podhradie, monasteries, temples, towers and cemeteries, all of these shape the minds of people and shape the landscape. at the same time, it preserves the values, ideals and symbols of the nations that possess them.
in writing. − if you have with the increasing popularity of road and air transport, rail is becoming less and less preferred. in an effort to remedy the situation, the european union has adopted a number of legislative measures aimed at reviving interest in railways by gradually creating a so-called single european railway area. in the past, it has presented a number of packages and directives, declaring its intention to reform the regulatory framework, to ensure the integration of the rail transport sector at european level and thus to enable it to face competition from other modes of transport. the eu's transport policy has set itself the objective of building an internal market, notably by developing common policies, in an effort to achieve competitiveness also in the field of transport. the draft revised version of the first railway package can make a significant contribution to this objective, also by facilitating the integration and development of the european rail market. in my view, efforts should be made to build a comprehensive and integrated european railway area. the common interests of the eu as a whole - as far as the railway sector is concerned - should take precedence over the interests of the individual member states. a genuine european railway area must be built, in which passengers and goods can be transported without any effort. last but not least, compliance with safety requirements should also be taken into account and this should play an important role in the licensing of railway undertakings.
in writing. − the overwhelming scientific evidence points to climate change, and therefore action is needed to help tackle this major challenge of the 21st century effectively. a broader and more effective european climate diplomacy is needed by all eu institutions ahead of the durban conference, which should aim to present a clearer eu climate policy profile, bringing new momentum to international climate negotiations and encouraging the introduction of binding emission reductions and adequate climate mitigation and adaptation measures. in my view, it would be beneficial for the eu to take the lead and push for an ambitious climate policy, thereby encouraging other countries to follow suit in doing so. at the same time, members of civil society, including representatives of gender equality organisations, should be given the opportunity to actively participate in the activities of the green climate fund management board and all its subsidiary boards. adaptation efforts should systematically and effectively address the impacts of climate change in terms of gender equality in energy, water, food security, agriculture and fisheries, biodiversity and ecosystem services, health, industry, human settlements, disaster management and conflict and security.
in writing. − climate change is one of the biggest environmental, social and economic challenges. despite various conspiracy theories, the warming of the climate system is a confirmed fact. global warming is causing the air and oceans to warm, accelerating the melting of snow and ice, and raising the global average water level. as with the economy and the global financial crisis, it is clear that we are all on the same page when it comes to climate change, because whatever the states decide to do, the consequences will be felt around the world. one of the key debates on creating an effective system of global rules will take place at the end of november in durban, south africa. the need, or rather the necessity, to keep the global average temperature rise below two degrees celsius is one of the european union's top priorities in environmental matters. unfortunately, the failure of a new climate treaty based on the kyoto protocol and its replacement by a voluntary and non-binding framework will simply not be enough to reach the limit of a temperature rise of below 2 degrees. durban needs to send a clear signal and thus a legally binding process to address this problem, because there is no other alternative.
in writing. − the european union member states promised in 2005 to devote 50% of all new aid to sub-saharan africa, but in reality they have only allocated half of this amount and have failed to meet their commitment to allocate 0.15% of gross national income to the least developed countries by 2010. the failure to deliver on aid pledges will seriously undermine confidence in the eu and damage its own credibility as well as that of its partners in the developing world. it is evident that the pressure on national budgets is increasing as a result of the financial and economic crisis. at the same time, i believe that achieving the goal of poverty eradication will require, first and foremost, a change of policy in both industrialised and developing countries to address the structural causes of poverty. the mobilisation of domestic resources in partner countries is key to sustainable development. it is important that european aid providers step up their global efforts to promote tax transparency. the fight against tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flight should be a priority in development policy. at the same time, eu policies such as agriculture, fisheries, migration or security must, under the lisbon treaty, be consistent with the eu's development policy objectives and it is desirable to apply policy coherence in the field of development so as to address the structural problem of poverty eradication.
in writing. − culture is at the heart of european identities and common values. it is at the heart of current debates on identity, social cohesion and the development of the knowledge economy. the european audiovisual sector, including cinema, is an important part of the eu economy and should strive to increase its competitiveness. european cinema is an important part of culture, promotes dialogue and understanding, embodies and captures european values in the eu and beyond, and plays an important role in preserving and promoting cultural and linguistic diversity. the digital age offers new opportunities for the sector, in particular in terms of more efficient distribution, screening and accessibility of films and higher quality audio and video. at the same time, however, the digital transition also poses a number of challenges and burdens, particularly in the financial area. the commission notes that the costs of digitisation are not directly linked to the costs of the digital cinema, but are linked to the costs of the digital cinema. it would therefore be appropriate for the commission to propose specific support measures for them. in addition to economic dynamism, european cinema is an important factor in the cultural development and identity of europe. i believe that we should make every effort to preserve the richness of european cinema and to ensure that it is as widely available as possible to citizens, in the interests of unity and freedom of thought.
madam president, i am going to speak about one of the important specific issues in the broad scale of eu-us cooperation. before this summit, i would like to encourage the high representative to work more intensively on strengthening the eu-us partnership in foreign policy, especially in the development of democratisation. the united states, our strategic partner in this field, is together with the eu the largest provider of development and democracy assistance globally. the outcome of the current wave of democratic uprisings in the arab world showed that we need to bring democracy development back to the international agenda. we have seen that the international response to these events is decisive in shaping perception of democracy support in the future. we will need more cooperation and coordination with the united states on these issues. the eu and us should shift towards an approach to democracy which is based on viewing other regions and countries as real partners on an equal basis. the summit should be a good chance to put these issues firmly back on the table.
the united states is the european union's most important partner at international level. the november summit should therefore bring progress in addressing a number of outstanding issues. negotiations on an agreement with the us on the recording of passenger data in air transport have been ongoing for some time, with the text of the agreement up to now contradicting the relevant legislation of the european union on the protection of personal data of its citizens. air transport also has our differing views on the safety schemes for the use of scanning and the prohibition of liquids on board aircraft. the united states of america has not yet introduced a visa-free regime for several countries of the union. we see the european union as a common space of 27 united states sharing common democratic values, and therefore the different approach of the usa to some of our states is not justified. it would also be good to discuss mutual attitudes to political change in the arab world. maybe then we'll be able to coordinate some of our moves in this environment better.
the european union's 2009 telecoms reform package was intended to improve the competitive environment for telecommunications services in the internal market. it also had to legislate to define net neutrality and the public's right to open access to the internet. the deadline for implementing the new telecoms rules expired in may this year. in april this year, the commission adopted its communication on net neutrality. it is therefore a good time to look together at whether these regulatory reforms have brought the expected changes and are being applied in the member states in a way that brings users more information and transparency about products, a higher quality of service, and an easy and seamless possibility to change operators in case of dissatisfaction with their services. in particular, network slowdown or outage problems which can be assessed as a reduction in the quality of the service provided should be excluded by the regulator through ... (speaker was interrupted by the chairman.)
the essence of net neutrality and the fundamental issues of the debate relate in particular to how best to keep this platform open and ensure that it can continue to provide high-quality services for all and enable the dissemination of innovation. network neutrality affects the whole range of rights and principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in particular with regard to privacy and family life, the protection of personal data and freedom of expression and information. therefore, any legislative proposal in this area will be subject to an in-depth impact assessment on the basis of law and compliance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in the absence of net neutrality, there would be serious risks in the form of, for example, anti-competitive behaviour, blocking of innovation, restrictions on freedom of expression and media pluralism, as well as lack of consumer awareness and privacy. this would be detrimental to businesses, consumers and democratic society as a whole.
author. - first of all, i must say that i am very sorry that commissioner reding is not here, because she is the commission's competent person on this issue. i would like to say that despite our efforts - and these efforts have become more pronounced, especially since the accession of new member states to the european union - and despite the presentation of the commission's framework in april 2011, nothing has fundamentally changed in the way roma issues are addressed in the european union. there is simply a continuing discrimination against the roma minority and, paradoxically, an even greater intensification of some kind of anti-roma hostility on the part of the non-roma majority. this situation is of course also caused by the deepening crisis and, in particular, its social impact in the member states of the european union. the majority population often feels not only in the open forms such as demonstrations or protests against the roma community, but in the majority population it is especially hidden that the roma community is someone who abuses our social system, who simply does not have the willingness and ambition to be an integral part of the majority society. i have pointed out several times in several speeches we have had here in relation to the roma problem that i consider the involvement of not only national governments but also of regions and local politicians - that is, mayors and mayors who know their situation best in their cities and towns and who have individual approaches that have been applied in some cases positively and in some cases not so positively - to be an essential part of the solution. i would also like to say that if we were to be consistent, the application of the charter of the rights of the child in the roma community is very problematic, and if we were to really insist that the charter of the rights of the child must be applied, we would have to take children away from their families, because often they not only live in poor sanitary and social conditions, but simply to raise them in the conditions in which these children are raised is not possible. i would therefore like to call on the commission, even if commissioner reding is not present, to start dealing with the roma problem not only formally, but also to adopt solutions that will both raise funds, so that these funds can be used, for example, for roma assistants in schools, so that roma children do not have to go to special schools, but can stay in normal schools, where this is not possible without a roma assistant, and that we also use these funds for the institution of a special social welfare recipient. (the speaker was interrupted by the chairman. )
for the efd group. earlier this year, the commission presented the first eu strategy to integrate roma into mainstream society. the commission wants to solve a problem that has eluded several member states for generations in less than nine years. i do not want to comment on the professional level of the european union framework for national roma integration strategies, but rather to help our officials in the commission understand the problem they are tackling. at the konstantin filozof university in nitra, slovakia, university teachers and staff of the roma culture department have been working on various methods of helping the roma ethnic group for more than twenty years. they prepare and train roma teachers for primary schools as well as specialised social workers for work in roma settlements. i am convinced that the experience of the experts from this unique centre in europe, who have been working with the roma community for more than fifty years, could be very useful for our officials in designing roma strategies.
policy proposals aimed at improving roma inclusion in majority society are fundamentally flawed. they assume that there are some specific roma problems that need to be addressed. but these are not the problems of the roma, but of all the families living on the edge of extreme poverty. these families have trouble finding housing, employment, and regular meals. they have limited access to education, health care, and justice. they have social acceptance issues. and eventually, they give up on trying to get out of a difficult situation on their own. none of these problems will be solved by dividing the people concerned into groups and dealing with each one separately. by talking only about roma, we ignore the facts. the fact is that many roma have succeeded in their professional lives, are respected in their communities, and are responsible parents. it is also a fact that many non-roma are homeless and marginalized or long-term abusers of social systems. if we want every citizen of the european union to have equal access to fundamental rights, we must base our approach on social status, not ethnicity. the so-called roma inclusion will only be achieved if we eliminate extreme poverty and its manifestations.
i know the situation of roma in slovakia very well, because in eastern slovakia, where i live, there are the most roma. i agree with those who say that discrimination against roma exists. but we also have to say that oftentimes, they feel that they are being discriminated against because of it. they're the ones who are responsible for not being adaptable, for not educating their children, for not providing health care, and so on. at the same time, we must say that not all roma are satisfied with their lives - they want to live better, they want to work and they want a better future for their children. last week i visited a settlement in the town of moldava nad bodvou, where four families had their huts burned down in august. thanks to the city's help, which leased the land to them, and a nonprofit organization, the roma themselves are building their future brick dwellings out of recycled building materials. i have documented the efforts of these particular roma families in a short document that shows that roma people want a better life, but they cannot help themselves. so if we want to solve the roma problem, we have to solve it with the roma.
while i do not consider it a sensible and systemic solution to provide reduced vat rates for certain goods and services, i respect the fact that several governments use tax breaks to stimulate selected activities or products. thus, if a country benefits from a reduced rate of value added tax on books, such a reduced rate can also be accepted for their electronic versions. unlike my colleague, mrs gall, i do not see the main purpose of the favours as being their cultural content, but rather their educational content. when we look at the number of textbooks, workbooks and compulsory and recommended literature that our children and young people will pass through in preparation for life, i am convinced that electronic versions of textbooks and work materials, which are now standard in affordable and quality reading devices, can make our pupils and students' school bags much lighter. perhaps this is why such a reduced rate could make sense.
for the efd group. the european atomic energy community framework programme for nuclear research and training follows on from the nuclear research and development measures implemented under the 7th framework programme of the european atomic energy community for 2007 2011. in line with the current financial perspective and time horizon of the 7th framework programme, the proposals cover only the two-year period up to 2013, but are designed in line with the europe 2020 and energy 2020 objectives. although the fukushima nuclear power plant destroyed by a massive tsunami has sparked serious debate about the continued use of nuclear power plants and several union countries have decided to limit or end their use, nuclear research remains an important part of the community's innovation policy. in particular, research into nuclear fission is bringing new insights and more efficient and secure access to a stable carbon-free energy source. the new technologies of the fourth generation of fast neutron reactor systems are up to 50 times more efficient than current systems and will last for thousands of years using currently known and available uranium resources. the european union therefore feels, as does the united states, russia and china, the need to continue nuclear research, both in the field of fission and in the field of fusion. the international thermonuclear experimental reactor, with its accompanying research and development programmes, remains the most important bearer of the perspective of the significant potential of safe, ecological, sustainable and economically accessible energy sources for europe. the new rules for carrying out this research will therefore allow us to continue it at least until 2013.
madam president! first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague březina on his excellent work. thank you very much. following the fukushima disaster, the european union needs more nuclear research and development. i say this despite the fact that some of our member states have decided to phase out nuclear energy. central european countries, including slovakia, are heavily dependent on nuclear energy. at eu level, 30 in slovakia, we supply 50% of our electricity needs from this source. with proper coordination and knowledge sharing, we could demonstrate the safety of nuclear fission, which would not only enhance european competitiveness but also stimulate research in other fields. research relying on co-financing submitted by euratom will greatly facilitate the production of energy based on nuclear fission. the proposals for the framework programme are also clearly linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 and energy 2020 strategies, which contribute to the expansion of employment in a number of areas. it not only trains new specialists but also increases the competitiveness of the existing nuclear industry, particularly in the field of fusion energy. building iter is a very big challenge, and i'm not just talking about the financial side, i'm talking about the technical side. we must do everything we can to succeed. this includes the prompt resolution of the current funding difficulties. the budget, as we know, exceeded the original estimates. we need reliable and secure sources until the end of the project's life, as fusion energy can provide a sustainable solution to europe's and the world's energy problems.
the report on the european union's support for the international criminal court draws attention to the serious problems that hamper the work of the court. since 2002, the international criminal court has prosecuted perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. within the scope of its mandate, it carries out investigations in the congo, the central african republic, uganda, sudan and libya. however, the financial cost of this extensive agenda is not stable and comprehensively covered. it is therefore essential that the union and its member states raise the legitimate question of continued funding of the work of this important judicial institution with a worldwide mandate to protect humanity from genocide and crime at the upcoming december session of the assembly of states parties in new york.
georgia is one of many countries that broke away from the soviet union and built its future on the ruins of the former soviet union. however, the path to building a democratic state was for many years marked by the deep tradition of the former communist regime, and the lack of democratic dialogue between the official administration and opposition groups often escalated into civil unrest. the stability of the countries is not helped by the dispute over the administration of the territory of abkhazia, which, according to the model implemented in europe by kosovo, has separated from georgia and seeks its future under the protection of russia. of course, the democratic society in georgia deserves our support. but i'm not sure our influence in this region will be effective and strong enough.
i'll make this short. i admit that i am surprised that the report on the application of the gender perspective to the work of the european parliament is only now on the agenda. the european parliament has long been a champion of the philosophy of gender equality and has incorporated its recommendations in this area in all the documents it adopts. it is therefore natural that such an equality policy should also be formalised on its own territory. only then can the european parliament be trusted by those who demand that its documents respect gender equality. once the report has been adopted, it will of course be important to apply the principles adopted consistently. and that, i think, is the essence of this proposal.
net neutrality and the internet itself contribute to the development of democracy by enabling individuals to express themselves freely, making information easily accessible and facilitating public debate. however, many internal barriers remain in the european union's digital market, preventing its full potential from being realised and hampering the freedom of choice of consumers, both citizens and businesses. achieving effective competition that stimulates innovation and brings a wide range of benefits to internet users therefore requires appropriately and sensitively designed regulation so as to preserve network neutrality while protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of society. i therefore join the call to the commission to ensure the consistent application and enforcement of the current telecoms regulatory framework and to examine whether and to what extent further action is needed.
the use of cluster munitions can be considered particularly inhumane in view of the immense suffering it inflicts on its victims - often civilians and especially children. that is why it surprises me that many states, including some member states of the european union, have so far avoided signing or ratifying the convention on cluster munitions. i am convinced that enforcing the obligations arising from this convention is part of the new human rights agenda of the european union. therefore, member states which have not yet adopted this convention should urgently remedy this situation. the rejection of this important convention damages the good image of the european union as a defender of human rights in the world and casts a negative light on the coherence of its foreign policy in the international arena.
in writing. − since its creation on 1 july 2002, the international criminal court (icc) has successfully implemented a unique global mandate to prosecute perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. however, despite his efforts, professionalism and determination, he is now at a critical point in his political and financial situation. he is increasingly subject to unjust, politically motivated attacks, his arrest warrants are often not respected, and his current budget does not cover his needs. the european union is a staunch supporter of the icc supporting it from its inception through various political, diplomatic, financial and logistical activities, while helping to promote the universal validity and integrity of the rome statute, contributing to its independence and effective functioning. it is our endeavour and one of our priorities to help the court to tackle the challenging tasks and overcome the political and financial difficulties it currently faces. freedom, the rule of law and the fight against impunity are pillars of sustainable peace, as they guarantee respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. i believe that justice must be seen as an indispensable element in support of efforts to maintain peace and resolve conflicts. in this case, full and prompt cooperation between the parties concerned, including the eu member states and the court, is crucial to the effectiveness and success of the international criminal justice system.
in writing. − europe's seas and coasts are important to europe's well-being and prosperity they are european trade routes, climate regulators, sources of food, energy and supplies, and a favourite place to live and recreate. technology and knowledge are bringing more capital from the seas, and more and more people are coming to europe's coasts to exploit this capital, but at the same time the cumulative impact of such activity is creating contradictions in the use of the marine environment on which everything else depends, and leading to a deterioration in its quality. in the context of rapid globalisation and climate change, europe needs to respond promptly to this situation. the commission proposes an integrated maritime policy that will strengthen europe's ability to face the challenges of globalisation and competitiveness, climate change, pollution of the marine environment, maritime safety and security, energy security and sustainability. to be effective, i believe it should be based on excellence in marine research, technology and innovation. the main areas of concern addressed by the draft report are a better definition of the programme's objectives, a clear position on its financing and greater involvement of legislators in the subsequent decision-making process. the foundations of an integrated maritime policy have already been laid. it should therefore be our aim to continue to support it in 2011 2013.
in writing. − in march of that year, the commission issued a package of legislative proposals for the continuation of the european atomic energy community (euratom) nuclear research and training activities in 2012 and 2013. research co-financed by euratom plays, inter alia, an important role in increasing the safety, resource efficiency and cost-effectiveness of nuclear fission and other uses of radiation in industry and medicine, and some research projects are key to the european industrial initiatives launched under the european strategic energy technology plan (set plan) last year. the proposals for the euratom framework programme are clearly linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 and energy 2020 strategies. the programme is expected to contribute to the objectives of the innovation union initiative, to bring growth and new job opportunities in a wide range of scientific disciplines by emphasising training in all its activities, to increase competitiveness in the current nuclear sector or to create a new sector of the advanced sector, in particular in the case of fusion energy. more recently, european countries were at risk in connection with the accident at fukushima, japan. i am convinced that, in order to avoid similar disasters, it is important that europe has stronger nuclear research to help it move forward in the field of nuclear energy.
in writing. − many global challenges in the fields of foreign policy, security, development and the environment require common action and transatlantic cooperation, but the economic crisis has now come to the fore, making it one of the main challenges to be addressed today. despite remaining the world's largest economies, the eu and the us are facing major challenges arising from the financial crisis and increasing competition from emerging economies. in my view, there is a need to establish and contribute to the effective functioning of a joint transatlantic initiative to create jobs and growth, including a trade and investment promotion plan. it would be appropriate for the eu and the us to further develop existing cooperation mechanisms, to work towards intensifying joint work on regulatory dialogue, the elimination of tariffs, the removal of unjustified non-tariff barriers and the establishment of common standards that would remove technical barriers to free and fair trade. lastly, the need to ensure freedom and security in one's own country must not result in abandoning basic principles relating to civil liberties and the promotion of common human rights standards. for this reason, and in the spirit of joint efforts to combat the crisis, the need for closer cooperation between europe and the us has perhaps never been more appropriate and necessary.
in writing. − the open nature of the internet is a key driver of competition, economic growth, social development and innovation, which has led to a huge development in online applications, content and services, and thus to growth in the supply and demand for content and services. this openness makes the internet an important engine for the free circulation of knowledge, ideas and information, even in countries where access to independent media is restricted. internet services are offered on a cross-border scale and the internet is at the core of the global economy and as stated in the digital agenda for europe broadband and the internet are important drivers of economic growth, job creation and european competitiveness at global level. i believe that only by stimulating a properly functioning digital internal market will europe be able to fully exploit the potential of the digital economy. each of the proposed solutions to the problem of net neutrality can only be effective through a consistent european approach. it is therefore necessary to closely monitor the adoption of national rules on net neutrality, taking into account their impact on individual national markets as well as on the internal market. because only through cooperation and coordination between member states, in particular between national regulatory authorities, and also cooperation and coordination with the commission, will the union be able to exploit the full potential of the internet.
in writing. − net neutrality and the internet in the european union are very important. this type of neutrality is a position whereby internet and internet service providers or governments themselves may not impose any restrictions on the consumer. the commission, in cooperation with the member states and the european regulatory authority for electronic communications, faces the difficult task of adopting a common approach to the issue of an open internet and neutrality across the eu, as only such a common approach can be truly successful. consumers must be free to choose the type of service they use and from which operator. telecommunications companies must therefore provide clear, meaningful and comparable information to their customers. these measures and the subsequent eu-wide coordination are necessary in particular to avoid potential discriminatory behaviour by operators, such as excessive pricing for voice over internet protocol or sharing of data using file transfer protocol or peer-to-peer. such behaviour not only restricts end-users but also harms competition.
in writing. − if you have on 1 august 2010, the convention on cluster munitions (ccm) and the related role of the european union entered into force. the dkm prohibits the use, production, storage and transport of cluster munitions as a whole category of weapons and requires states parties to destroy stockpiles of such munitions. through that convention, significant and fundamental changes are being made compared to the previous period when cluster munitions were considered a necessity to guarantee military security. twenty-two member states have signed and fifteen have ratified the dkm. however, five member states have not yet taken any of these steps. in my view, it is essential that member states make efforts to implement the convention, to dispose of ammunition stockpiles, to provide the necessary assistance to victims and to assist other states in their efforts to implement the jcpoa in various ways. last but not least, i consider it extremely positive that the convention on cluster munitions states that member states of the european union may never, under any circumstances, use, develop, produce, otherwise acquire, stockpile, preserve or transfer, directly or indirectly, cluster munitions to anyone else.
in writing. − the european union's digital single market is highly fragmented, partly due to the union's tax system, especially with regard to excise duties on goods and services. the economic crisis is seriously damaging and negatively affecting the economy, but it is the so-called digital economy that has the potential to make a significant contribution to future prosperity in europe. in my view, the eu should also seek to develop the potential of the single market by facilitating online and cross-border trade between member states. in this context, attention should also be paid to the modernisation of vat legislation in order to promote the digital single market. one example is the vat rates for books, which illustrates the shortcomings of the current legislation. member states may apply reduced vat rates to the supply of books, but for e-books, for example, the basic vat rate is at least 15%. such a form of discrimination is hardly acceptable, given the growth potential of this market segment. i think it is appropriate to stress the need for the eu to be ambitious and to make the necessary efforts to eliminate the inconsistencies in the existing legal framework. helping businesses to develop and offer new pan-european online services should be a priority in the modernisation of vat legislation.
in writing. − the eastern partnership provides a meaningful political framework for strengthening relations, accelerating political association and deepening economic integration between the eu and georgia. it allows relations to be strengthened through new association agreements, taking into account the specific situation and ambitions of each partner country and its capacity to meet the resulting commitments. georgia's active engagement and commitment to shared values and principles, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, are essential to progress in the process of implementing the association agreement. georgia is one of the most successful countries in the eastern partnership in terms of adopting reforms, despite the fact that implementation problems persist. efforts to further improve judicial reform, labour law, women's rights and the integration of minorities are also needed. i am of the opinion that it is justified to provide georgia with targeted financial and technical support in order to ensure that the country is able to meet the obligations arising from the negotiation of the association agreement and its full implementation. it is welcome that the negotiations on an association agreement with georgia are progressing rapidly, while it is also necessary to ensure that this agreement is a comprehensive and forward-looking framework for the further development of eu-georgia relations in the years to come.
in writing. − the european union must do everything possible to ensure that russia withdraws its troops from abkhazia and south ossetia as soon as possible and respects georgia's sovereignty and territorial independence, ensuring peaceful, non-violent negotiations. we need direct talks without preconditions. the significant progress made by georgia in democratic reforms can be considered as a step forward. it has strengthened its institutions, reformed the judicial system, and succeeded in reducing serious crime. however, further progress and support is needed and union financial and technical assistance should be provided. sustainable development is important, taking into account the union's climate change objectives and developing the southern corridor. georgia plays a key role in improving the eu's energy security. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the principle of gender equality is enshrined in article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which states that the union shall aim, in all its activities, to eliminate inequalities and to promote equality between men and women. the tfeu also recalls that 'the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities' and that 'these values are common to the member states in a society in which pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men prevail'. i believe that the mainstreaming of gender into parliament's legislative and political work can be most effectively achieved through specifically targeted amendments to draft reports that are responsive to the application of the gender perspective. the european institute for gender equality (eige) strives to promote the mainstreaming of gender equality in all eu policies and to promote the application of the gender perspective in all its institutions and bodies. gender mainstreaming is much more important than gender mainstreaming itself by implementing specific measures to help women or, in some cases, the under-represented sex. a key and important part of this effort is also the mobilisation of all general policies and measures to take concrete steps towards achieving gender equality.
in writing. − if you have as chair of the femm committee (2004 2009), i also had the opportunity to meet with politically sensitive reports. thanks to the cooperation of all the political groups, the femm committee enjoyed a positive image. i've been a reporter on this twice. i think that i am aware of the problem and therefore i am forced to vote against this resolution. it goes beyond the original resolution. transgender issues are being taken out of their political and institutional context. the recommendations referred to in paragraph 2 are unrealistic. their introduction would require a special dg. to quote our distinguished colleague astrid lulling: 'everything that is excessive is meaningless'. the issue of equal opportunities for women and men is an important issue that is close to my heart. it must therefore be dealt with sensitively and proactively. in order to advance equality of opportunity in the vision of sustainable development of the peoples of europe and in the work of the committees, i am in favour of introducing family mainstreaming to achieve real and sustainable equality of opportunity for all citizens. because the problem of the demographic future of the european nations is actually avoided. and this is despite the fact that demography is the key to the future of society.
in writing. − the european union is the world's largest importer of fisheries products and one of the world's most important fishing powers. it is therefore justified to play a decisive role in mobilising the international community to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. such fishing is one of the most serious threats to the biodiversity of the world's oceans. it is also a major environmental and economic problem worldwide for both marine and freshwater fisheries and undermines efforts to manage fisheries. it also threatens the sustainability of fish stocks and food security and distorts the market, with incalculable social and economic impacts and, above all, a negative impact on society as a whole. the eu has taken a leading role in the fight against iuu fishing through a new, comprehensive and comprehensive set of control measures. however, i am also convinced that efforts should continue to be made to intensify coordination between the commission, the community fisheries control agency and the member states in order to improve the collection and exchange of information and to help ensure the consistent and transparent application of union fisheries legislation. the eu should lead by example and adopt and promote a policy of transparency in decision-making on the management of this economy in international bodies and in third countries.
for the efd group. we have addressed the criticism of the iranian regime for its repeated and persistent serious human rights violations on several occasions. however, it is clear from the current developments in the country that the application of the policy of radical islam in this country is taking an increasingly brutal form. the increasing repression against opponents of the regime, human rights defenders, journalists, students, but also lawyers who defend them, and even against family members, is gaining in cruelty and intensity. the investigative bodies and the iranian judiciary have become an extension of the political will of the fanatical regime, and they persecute anyone who even hints at questioning the iranian state power. i believe that our efforts to return freedom and humanity to the administration of the iranian state must follow two paths. the first is to continue to call on the official state structures to respect internationally recognised human values, to value human life, human dignity and to respect freedom of opinion and expression. the second way is to document all detected cases of criminal behavior by state institutions, judicial authorities, as well as security forces and submit them to the international court of justice for review.
the current regime in iran, which instrumentalizes violence as a tool of power used to torture its opponents, must be condemned and sanctioned. executions, death sentences, the infringement of the rights of detainees, the conviction of civil rights defenders and the non-compliance with the fundamental conventions on civil and political rights are not acceptable by any standard. all of this is happening in iran at a time when authoritarian regimes are changing in the arab world and we are expressing our support and solidarity with human rights activists in that part of the world. i believe that respect for fundamental human rights is the basis for the normal functioning of any society, regardless of the prevailing religion, culture or ethnicity. i also believe that we cannot tolerate indefinitely the increasing repression of those who fight for their fundamental rights. i fully support the resolution that has been proposed.
author. − the resignation of hosni mubarak as president of the republic of egypt has paved the way for a transitional military government to take over the running of the egyptian state. the events during the peaceful demonstration for the rights of coptic christians in october this year, in which more than 25 civilians were killed and more than 300 injured, showed that the interim egyptian government is losing its sense of calm and methods of peaceful and civilized behavior of the country. the harassment of bloggers alú abdulfatá, michael nabíl sanád and thousands of other civilians before military courts confirms that the interim government is beginning to apply authoritarian methods of rule. the egyptian military courts do not meet the requirement of article 10 of the universal declaration of human rights, in particular as regards the right to a fair and independent assessment of the allegation made. we therefore cannot accept the continuation of the trials of the civilian population of egypt before military tribunals and we must strongly urge the interim government to return immediately to civilized and decent methods of governing in its country.
blogger alá abdulfatáh was accused of calling for resistance against the armed forces during the demonstration. against those who murdered defenseless people right in front of him. he was court-martialed even though he's not a soldier. he was imprisoned, while those who committed violence before his eyes and the eyes of the world remained unpunished. in slovakia, we know this scenario. in 1988, the communists used water cannons and police violence to break up a peaceful demonstration in bratislava. christians who called for respect for fundamental rights were beaten, arrested, and interrogated. we therefore want the european parliament to send a strong signal to egypt today, also on behalf of christians and all citizens of slovakia. we want egyptians to know that europe demands from its partners respect for fundamental human rights, such as freedom of belief and religion, as well as freedom of speech. without the guarantee of these rights, a country without a dictator is the same as a country with a dictator.
in writing. the december council meeting will be a watershed. the current situation is unprecedented in the eu's post-war history and today is about the survival and preservation of the european project. the main point will be to stop the crisis in the euro area. but there was one wording in the meeting program that intrigued me. the meeting will discuss 'economic convergence in the euro area'. but i'm very interested to know what convergence the eu leaders want to discuss. the one that doesn't exist? the one that the eurozone setup doesn't allow? because it's the very way the eurozone was modelled from the beginning that has contributed to the structural imbalances we talk about in europe today. it's just a logical consequence of the eurozone's setup that today we have surplus countries like germany and deficit countries like greece, italy, portugal, spain. convergence in the euro area is thus not only non-existent, but on the contrary, the euro area contributes to deepening internal imbalances. and if leaders really want to talk about 'increasing convergence', they cannot avoid the fundamental question of what to do with the euro area. the agenda also includes an item on 'deepening economic union'. if the council insists on budgetary discipline as a priority and if the leaders fail to realise that some form of transfer union will be necessary, the meeting will be useless. understand that it is time for major decisions. and if we falter, we may never get another chance like this.
tomorrow's vote on croatia's accession to the eu will be an important milestone and i believe it will strengthen the european union and demonstrate the credibility of its enlargement policy and its commitment to the balkans. the accession process has made a significant contribution to the transformation of croatia into a democratic country based on european values. i am convinced that its accession to the eu will contribute to strengthening stability, security and freedom in this region. croatia should continue to play the role of a strong advocate and representative of european values. but it is important at this moment to think about other countries and our joint efforts to bring them into the union. the success story of croatia has allowed us to learn new lessons which i hope we will be able to use wisely in the future enlargement process of the european union. i give a warm welcome to croatia as the 28th member of the european union.
in writing i really welcome the imminent signing of the treaty of accession of croatia and hope that its ratification will proceed smoothly in the member states and that croatia will be able to become the 28th member of the european union. as a member of the european parliament for the slovak republic, i can say that croatia is a country that is really close to us. in addition to cultural and linguistic similarities, it is also one of the most popular destinations for slovaks. croatia has undergone significant changes and tough reforms in recent years, but at the same time i call on the country not to let the conclusion of accession negotiations and the start of the ratification process stop it from reforming, especially in the areas of justice, the fight against corruption, organised crime and the integration of refugees. i have my fingers crossed for croatia and look forward to them soon joining our club.
since april 2009, when the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation amending community regulation no 1934 of 2006 establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories, the european parliament and the european council have diverged on a number of points. a conciliation procedure was therefore needed earlier this year to reconcile the different views of these institutions on the preparation of the regulation and to enable the new regulation to be implemented. in eight trilogues from march to the end of october, the divergent positions of parliament and the council were moved to the point where we can now speak of an agreement that important strategic decisions will be taken under the codecision process and that parliament's position will be strengthened in the use of delegated acts. this will create the same conditions for the successful continuation of this legislative process.
in slovakia, people are disgusted and especially disgusted that there has been a failure of the authorities who are supposed to watch over their safety. military intelligence, led by an incompetent, inexperienced minister - now ex-minister - has been eavesdropping not only on journalists but also on people in the ministry of defence, and there is strong suspicion that they have been monitoring the prime minister herself. this mega-scandal has not gone unnoticed by the representative of the organization for security and cooperation in europe, which is in charge of media freedom. i believe that the commission will also want the results of the investigation into this illegal wiretapping and will take measures so that in no democratic country do people have to fear that their health, privacy and work activities will be subject to monitoring and wiretapping.
the top officials of my country have gone mad. by the decision of the government of mrs. radičová, the most important doctors, specialists, surgeons, pediatricians, gynecologists, or anesthesiologists were ordered to work. just like the führer and jugashvili. the intellectual elite of the slovak healthcare system was forced to work under the threat of prison, to work day and night in difficult, critical conditions without entitlement to rest, in violation of the labor code, at the whim of the local supervisor from the employer. in this depraved way, a handful of immoral political adventurers vent their anger on doctors who stood up for their patients and prevented a corrupt administration from liquidating its last public hospitals. let us not allow, dear friends, such an abuse of governmental power as the slovak government has ordered today by its doctors. tomorrow he can do the same to the teachers and then to all of us. but it's not a democracy anymore, it's a dictatorship.
mr president, when 10 new member states joined the union in 2004, they did so in the hope that one day a europe free of borders and based on common principles would be a reality. it is contrary to this and unacceptable that people are deprived of their citizenship in one eu member state simply because they take up the citizenship of another eu member state, as is happening in slovakia. in many areas, the union is now united. he's using his own provisions. but with regard to dual citizenship, he has allowed this issue to undermine his unity and prestige. if a member state offers to take up citizenship irrespective of residence, this possibility should be used. member states of the union shall not deprive each other of their nationality. we expect our institutions to ensure that citizens are not disadvantaged by multiple citizenship within the eu.
mr president the question of citizenship is a matter for the member states, as we all know, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. however, the slovak law, which was adopted by the slovak parliament in response to the amendment of the hungarian citizenship law, also leads to the restriction of fundamental freedoms in terms of consequences, and has therefore become a european problem today. a slovak citizen who is deprived of his citizenship, then his identity card, his driving license, following a letter from the slovak ministry of interior, and is forced to apply for a residence permit in his homeland, in his own apartment, not only suffers humiliation, but his freedom to enterprise, his freedom of movement is also disproportionately restricted by the power. the question is whether such an absurd measure is compatible with the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice.
commissioner, governor, in 2010, the european central bank, despite the disagreement of several countries, applied the mechanism for buying bonds of euro area countries on secondary markets. but in the past few days, for the first time, she has failed to sterilize these purchases. it needed to withdraw eur 203,5 billion from the interbank market, but demand for its seven-day sterilisation operations was eur 194,2 billion. this tells us that european banks are holding cash and not providing it to the central bank, but also that the volume of bonds being purchased is becoming too large for the bank to be able to sterilize it and not increase the amount of euros in the financial system by buying bonds. if the trend of unsuccessful sterilisation operations were to continue, this would mean a kind of quantitative easing for the euro area and thus a negative impact on the purchasing power of the european currency. therefore, mr governor, the european central bank's policy needs to be modified very sensitively in order to better protect its currency and the price stability of the euro area.
in writing. without the euro, the global financial crisis would have been much worse for all european countries. examples of this are: the long-term strong pound has been steadily depreciating since 2008, and prices have been rising. without the euro, the northern countries of europe would not have returned to growth so quickly. if the deutsche mark existed, it would be so strong against world currencies that it would hurt germany's growth. without the euro, european countries with more lax fiscal policies and less focus on increasing competitiveness would have had to resort to crisis economic measures, such as those adopted in argentina in 2001. their moral and economic decline would have dire consequences. one area of failure has occurred: the governance of the euro area. the architects of the euro built monetary union, aware that a single currency could cause instability in countries with a wide range of different economic and production structures. these architects may have thought that steps toward greater political union would be taken when they were really needed. that time has finally come today, when the eurozone is fully exposed to the effects of the debt crisis. we need to create a system that allows for better control of dysfunctional fiscal policies in the countries that are members of the euro area.
human rights, democracy and the rule of law are the fundamental values on which the european union is founded. they are enshrined in its founding treaty and have been reinforced by the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights. the union shall actively promote and defend universal human rights, not only within its territory, but also in its relations with third countries. the new legal framework for the european instrument for democracy and human rights in the world has the potential to improve the efficiency and transparency of the community's external assistance. we must take into account the fact that the directly elected european parliament is the bearer of democratic legitimacy within the institutional set-up, and therefore consolidating the position of the parliament in the use of delegated acts in the field of external relations becomes a matter of principle.
croatia has long shown a strong desire to become a member of the european union. political will has been reflected in reforms of public administration, justice and fundamental rights, increased transparency, and the fight against corruption and organised crime. in the area of legislation, croatia demonstrates a good degree of alignment with the acquis communautaire and continues to undergo significant legislative as well as institutional changes. naturally, reforms, especially in key areas of the democratic rule of law, need to be pursued in full. croatia is a republic founded on values which are shared by the other member states of the european union, and i therefore express my support for croatia's accession to the european union. i will be pleased to welcome my croatian colleagues to our midst in july 2013.
in writing. − the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance clearly specified expenditure which could not be financed within the ceilings available under one or more of the expenditure chapters of the multiannual financial framework. in accordance with point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement and after examining all possibilities for reallocating appropriations under heading 4, the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument to finance the european neighbourhood policy of eur 208,67 million, representing an amount of eur 153,3 million above the ceiling of heading 4 and eur 30,75 million for the eu 2020 strategy under heading 1a. the publication of this decision in the official journal of the european union shall take place at the latest at the time of publication of the 2012 budget.
in writing. − the european budget should support growth and the creation of quality jobs in line with the eu 2020 strategy. i think it is justified that the council should finance this strategy in a proper way, despite the austerity measures. the budget of the european union for each year is part of the seven-year financial framework, which estimates how much money will be needed for the union's programmes. the european parliament's 2012 eu budget proposal focuses on the need to respect existing commitments and accelerate programmes that are ending. the total budget for next year will be €129.1 billion (an increase of 1.86%) in payments and €147.2 billion in commitments. the increase in payment appropriations will be limited, as requested by member states that have accepted the european parliament's growth priorities such as innovation, employment, border protection or migration management and supporting democratic development in the arab world. the budget chapters in which parliament is calling for the highest increases are the research and development chapter (+8.8%) and the chapter covering the cohesion fund and the structural funds (+10.35%). these policies include long-term investment projects, which are now fully operational in the fifth year of the mff and which will now have to pay invoices to which the eu has committed itself in the past.
in writing. − if you have in accordance with article 16 of council regulation (ec) no 1150/2000 of may 2000, the commission has revised the estimates of own resources. this applies in particular to vat and gni balances as well as to traditional own resources. as regards the integrated maritime policy, since its establishment in december 2007, it has been financed through pilot projects and preparatory actions for the first three years. in september 2010, the commission presented a proposal for a regulation to continue its funding until the end of the current financial framework. the proposed financing will allow the commission to further develop and concretise the options for implementing the integrated maritime policy in line with the guidelines set out in the progress report. administrative reform in greece is crucial for the successful implementation of cohesion policy through the structural funds. the operational programme for administrative reform aims to introduce reforms that would improve the specifically important operations of the greek state, the functioning of the public administration and the efficiency of the public service. the analysis of the needs for commitment appropriations by the end of the year shows that eur 60.4 million is available under heading 4 'eu as a global actor'. it is proposed to reallocate this amount to 19 08 01 02 financial support to palestine, the peace process and unrwa (united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east) under the european neighbourhood and partnership.
in writing. − point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) via the flexibility instrument with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the relevant headings of the financial framework. on 6 june 2011, portugal submitted an application egf/2011/005 pt/norte-centro automotive for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in three enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 29 ('manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and trailers') in the norte (pt11) and centro (pt16) regions at nuts ii level in portugal. after a thorough examination of the application submitted, the commission has concluded that the conditions for granting a financial contribution are met. i also consider that it is justified to grant portugal's request and to provide the funds.
in writing. − the judge of the seventh chamber of the court of first instance of piraeus requested that the immunity of member of the european parliament, mr georgios toussas, be waived in order to be able to conduct the criminal proceedings initiated on the basis of instructions issued by the prosecutor's office of the magistrates' court of piraeus. mr toussas is accused, together with eight other persons, of knowingly misappropriating the assets of the merchant navy seamen's fund (nat), a legal entity under public law, which mr toussas was entrusted with the administration of, amounting to more than eur 147 000 for the benefit of another party. mr toussas committed the alleged fraud as a member of the nat board and as such had the status of an employee within the meaning of greek criminal law. during the hearing by the committee on legal affairs on 10 october 2011, georgios toussas indicated that the criminal proceedings may constitute a political persecution directed against him. having examined all the facts and in accordance with rule 6 (2) of its rules of procedure, the committee on legal affairs, after considering the grounds for and against the waiver of the parliamentary immunity, recommends that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr georgios toussas.
in writing. - mr luigi de magistris, member of the european parliament, has applied for the protection of his parliamentary immunity in proceedings brought against him before the naples court by the naples-based company bagnolifutura spa, which is engaged in the design and remediation of land, in connection with press releases which he has issued and which have been published on his website. according to this summons, the statements made in these press releases constitute a defamation and, as a result, a claim for damages has been made. in the press releases cited above, luigi de magistris published information concerning a subsequent written question to the european commission requesting more detailed information on the irregularities in public procurement identified by the commission in may 2009. he asked for more detailed information on the alleged waste of public funds in the naples area, where bagnoliafutura operates. the facts set out in the order for reference and the written evidence submitted by the member of the committee on legal affairs show that the statements made are in fact directly and visibly connected with the performance of the duties of luigi de magistris as a member of the european parliament. at the same time, however, since luigi de magistris was acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament when the press reports in question were published, parliament is in favour of protecting his immunity and privileges.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 provides for the different forms of assistance that may be granted from structural fund contributions. member states introduced these forms of aid during the 2000-2006 programming period by setting up specific funds and by means of repayable assistance provided through other instruments. by contrast, council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 does not define aid as repayable or non-repayable aid. it contains provisions on financial engineering instruments, but these provisions are narrowly defined. this regulation does not seem to cover repayable aid. however, member states continued to use the repayable forms of aid on the basis of the positive experience of the previous programming period. it is therefore necessary to provide in regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 that the recovery aid may be co-financed by the structural funds. and i also think it's important to provide clarity on the legality of existing legal practice. it is necessary to ensure legal clarity and certainty in relation to the repayment assistance and financial engineering instruments. i believe that the monitoring of financial engineering instruments is appropriate, but that other reporting obligations by member states should be adjusted.
in writing. − the global financial crisis and economic downturn have seriously damaged economic growth and financial stability and caused a significant deterioration in financial and economic conditions in several member states. they are experiencing or threatened with particular severe difficulties, mainly related to their economic growth and financial stability and to the worsening of their deficit and debt situation, which is, inter alia, caused by the international economic and financial environment. despite the fact that important measures have been taken to counterbalance the negative effects of the crisis, including amendments to the legislative framework, the impact of the financial crisis on the real economy, the labour market and citizens is clear. pressure on national financial resources is increasing, which could be alleviated in particular by making the best use of the structural funds and the cohesion fund. the crisis and economic downturn mentioned above, which have seriously damaged the financial stability of several member states, require a rapid response in order to mitigate the effects on the economy as a whole. i believe it is important that member states receive financial assistance from the union or from other euro area member states to address serious difficulties in financial stability.
in writing. − if you have council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002 adopted on the basis of article 299 (2) of the ec treaty authorises spain to apply, until 31 december 2011, an exemption from or a reduction in the tax known as aiem to certain products produced locally in the canary islands. the measures in the abovementioned decision are designed to strengthen the local industry by increasing its competitiveness. the decline in tourist arrivals caused by the global economic crisis in 2009 had serious consequences for the canary islands' economy, which is heavily dependent on tourism revenues. the unemployment rate, which ranged between 10,4% and 12% between 2001 and 2007, thus increased to 26,2% in 2009. on 16 november 2010, spain submitted to the european commission a request for an extension of the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec by two years in order to align its expiry date with the expiry date of the guidelines on national regional aid for the years 2007 to 2013. the commission has assessed the application in the light of the extent of the disadvantages suffered by the canary islands and has concluded that the granting of the extension request is justified in the light of the information available. i also share the same view as regards the application of the decision allowing for the extension of the period of application until 31 december 2013.
in writing. − if you have article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which applies to the outermost regions of the union, including the french overseas departments, provides that, in view of the economic and social structural situation of the outermost regions, which is affected by their remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topographical and climatic conditions, economic dependence on a small number of products, all of which have a negative impact on the development of these regions, the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, is to adopt specific measures to lay down the conditions for the application of the treaties and of the common policies in those regions. these measures concern in particular tax policy. the council shall adopt them without prejudice to the integrity and coherence of the union legal order, including the internal market and common policies. in france, the reduced rate of excise duty is limited to an annual quota of 108 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol and the derogation expires on 31 december 2012. the french authorities request an increase of the annual quota to 125 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol and at the same time request an extension of the period of application of decision 2007/659/ec by one year. after considering all the facts, it is proposed to increase the quota to 120 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol. furthermore, the extension of the period of application of decision 2007/659/ec by one year, until 31 december 2013, is justified in the light of the available findings.
in writing. − the european central bank has so far been very successful in keeping hicp inflation at around 2%, despite several shocks at the macro-financial level and volatile commodity prices, and at a time of low average gdp growth in the union. however, the impact of higher interest rates on economic growth in the euro area is worrying, and this could make the already slow recovery in the euro area, especially in its weakest economies, more difficult. in accordance with article 282 tfeu, the primary objective of the ecb is to maintain price stability, which contributes to financial stability and adequate liquidity in financial markets. on the contrary, financial instability poses a serious risk to price stability over the medium term, as it impedes the smooth functioning of the monetary policy transmission mechanisms. the persisting or even worsening lack of economic convergence remains a structural problem for the single monetary policy in the euro area. the impact of monetary policy on the different euro area member states also varies considerably, and this asymmetry is expected to worsen if the ecb raises interest rates. in several member states, most loans are indexed to short-term interest rates. for this reason, too, there is an urgent need for common fiscal management at union level. i believe that much closer international coordination is needed to increase the stability of the global monetary system.
in writing. − reducing early school leaving appears to be essential to achieving many of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it promotes, in particular, the achievement of two of them: to achieve so-called smart growth by improving education and training levels, and so-called inclusive growth by removing one of the biggest risk factors of unemployment and poverty. the reasons for early school leaving vary considerably between countries and even within regions. i believe that policies to reduce early school leaving need to be adapted to the specific situation within a region or country, as it is not possible to reach a single solution that benefits all member states. this phenomenon is shown to occur more frequently in disadvantaged and vulnerable groups, such as young people with special educational needs. early school leaving subsequently results in social disadvantage and retains the risk of social exclusion. as early school leaving is a complex phenomenon that cannot be tackled by education and training alone, i believe it is essential to integrate measures to promote the reduction of early school leaving rates into all relevant policies for children and young people.
in writing. − poor performance is one of the main causes of school dropout. i agree that a common cause of failure in children is that school curricula are not adapted to the needs of children's age and socially determined interests. the uniform educational system makes it difficult to personalize the work to be done with the student. for pupils with special educational needs or behavioural difficulties, a personalised approach is in the best interests of the pupils. for these students, it is only possible to achieve a positive result in smaller classes. we know that teaching assistants are a great help for teachers and students, but they are present in very limited numbers (due to budget) in schools, and it would be justified to extend them to students with special needs, because they receive special help and attention. i support the proposal that every high school establish a counseling service so that schools not only have a teaching role but also provide emotional support for students. i support the second chance approach, which would allow the out-of-school youth to reintegrate.
in writing. − following the vote at second reading on 3 february, and in view of the political will to conclude the conciliation procedure as soon as possible, a constituent meeting of the ep delegation to the conciliation committee was held in strasbourg on 15 february 2011. the ep delegation decided to negotiate the four relevant headings as a package (development cooperation financing instrument (dci), development cooperation financing instrument/bananas accompanying measures (dci/bam), financing instrument for cooperation with industrialized countries and territories and other high income countries and territories (ici+) and financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world (eidhr)). during the mid-term review, it was agreed that these instruments would remain unchanged as no new strategy papers are planned until 2013. the european parliament declares that it is ready to accept the compromise package, as the current instrument is slowly coming to an end. regrets that the council's inflexibility has not allowed the text of the development cooperation financing instrument/banana accompanying measures (dci/bam) to be improved, in particular with regard to parliament's role in strategic decisions where the equal status of co-legislators is of particular importance; in accordance with the criteria set out in article 290 (1), the european parliament shall insist on the use of delegated acts whenever strategic political decisions on financing and planning are taken in relation to these instruments.
in writing. − if you have since 2007, the european union has been rationalising its geographical cooperation with developing countries in asia, central asia and latin america and with iraq, iran, yemen and south africa under regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 december 2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation. the eu has a strategic interest in strengthening the diverse links with these countries, particularly in the areas of economic, trade, academic and scientific exchanges, and therefore needs a financial instrument to finance such measures, which by their nature do not qualify for official development assistance. to this end, four preparatory actions were established under the budgetary procedures in 2007 and 2008: trade and scientific exchanges with india, trade and scientific exchanges with china, cooperation with middle-income countries in asia and cooperation with middle-income countries in latin america. the review of the regulation has identified inconsistencies in the provisions excluding costs relating to taxes, duties or other charges as unjustified. in the interests of consistency, it is necessary to bring those provisions into line with the other instruments and i therefore consider that it is desirable to amend regulation (ec) no 1934/2006 accordingly.
in writing. − the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world on 21 april 2009. the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) is one of the external financing instruments covered by the package. the eidhr and the development cooperation instrument are the only eu external financing instruments that do not provide for an exception to the principle that costs related to taxes, duties and other charges are not eligible for eu funding. in all other instruments in this field, financing of these costs is made possible on a case-by-case basis in order to ensure the proper implementation of programmes and projects. this flexibility is important because the inflexible formulation of the eidhr and dci instruments can make it very difficult to finance an action through external aid. the commission proposal aims to bring the relevant provision into line with other development aid instruments.
in writing. − following the vote at second reading on 3 february, and in view of the political will to conclude the conciliation procedure as soon as possible, a constituent meeting of the ep delegation to the conciliation committee was held in strasbourg on 15 february 2011. the ep delegation decided to negotiate the four relevant headings as a package (development cooperation financing instrument (dci), development cooperation financing instrument/bananas accompanying measures (dci/bam), financing instrument for cooperation with industrialized countries and territories and other high income countries and territories (ici+) and financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world (eidhr)). in the mid-term evaluation of the dci and the eidhr, it was agreed that these instruments would remain unchanged as no new strategy papers are planned until 2013. the european parliament declares that, in a spirit of compromise, it is ready to adopt a compromise package, as the current instrument is slowly coming to an end. regrets that it was not possible to further improve the text of the development cooperation financing instrument/banana accompanying measures (dci/bam), in particular with regard to parliament's role in strategic decisions where the equal status of co-legislators is of particular importance; in accordance with the criteria set out in article 290 (1), the european parliament shall insist on the use of delegated acts whenever strategic political decisions on financing and planning are taken in relation to these instruments.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 1172/98 of 25 may 1998 on statistical returns in respect of the carriage of goods by road has been substantially amended several times. in the light of further amendments, it is appropriate, for reasons of clarity, to recast this directive. in order to fulfil the tasks entrusted to the commission in the context of the common transport policy, it is justified that the commission should have at its disposal comparable, reliable, harmonised, regular and comprehensive statistical data on the volume and development of road freight transport by vehicles registered in the union and on the degree of utilisation of the vehicles providing such transport. it is necessary to compile comprehensive regional statistics with regard to the transport of goods and vehicle movements. at the same time, the scope of the powers delegated to the commission should not be too broad. for this reason, and in line with the similar approach adopted for the regulation on tourism statistics, i think it would be appropriate to adopt amendments aimed at limiting the scope of the powers delegated to the commission and laying down further conditions for the exercise of those powers.
in writing. − the european parliament and the council adopted in december 2006 a regulation laying down rules on short-term border traffic at the external land borders of the member states, allowing member states to exempt persons living in the border area from the general rules on border controls, including the visa requirement, the need to prove sufficient means of subsistence and the need to prove the purpose of the visit. the aim is to avoid creating obstacles to trade, social and cultural exchanges or regional cooperation with neighbours. when applying local border traffic, member states may conclude bilateral agreements with neighbouring countries aimed at addressing specific needs in relation to their respective neighbours. the links of the kaliningrad region with its neighbours have been significantly reduced, mainly as a result of the enlargement of the union in 2004. over the years, a number of eu initiatives have been developed to make it easier for kaliningrad residents to move around, but they have proved to be insufficient given the special geographical situation of kaliningrad. poland and the russian federation therefore request such an amendment of the regulation to take account of the specific situation of that region. the european commission is inclined to adopt a positive opinion if it is only a solution to a single situation. i also believe that it is desirable for poland to take the necessary measures to ensure easier movement and to avoid unnecessary complications that would impede that movement and introduce new obstacles.
in writing. − twenty years after declaring independence and some eight years after submitting its application for membership of the european union, croatia has reached a historic milestone in its eu integration process by successfully concluding accession negotiations, and these achievements deserve unconditional recognition. the accession process contributes significantly to the transformation of croatia into a strong and advanced democratic country, and its membership can strengthen the union, enrich its european culture and heritage and make a significant contribution to maintaining the credibility of the enlargement process. however, despite the significant progress made, i believe it is important to continue the reforms initiated, focusing in particular on commitments made in the areas of justice, home affairs and fundamental rights, including the protection of media freedom, the impartial resolution of war crimes cases, the fight against corruption, minority protection, border management, police cooperation, the fight against organised crime and judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, as well as on commitments in the field of competition policy. croatia's commitment to fighting corruption is commendable, and positive progress has been made, for example, in the area of women's rights and gender equality. it is desirable that croatia continue to strengthen good neighbourly relations, to remain an important and active promoter of regional cooperation at all levels, and to support its efforts towards membership with steps that will bring economic, social and human benefits to all citizens of the region.
in writing. − twenty years after declaring independence and some eight years after submitting its application for membership of the european union, croatia has reached a historic milestone in its eu integration process by successfully concluding accession negotiations, and these achievements deserve unconditional recognition. the accession process contributes significantly to the transformation of croatia into a strong and advanced democratic country, and its membership can strengthen the union, enrich its european culture and heritage and make a significant contribution to maintaining the credibility of the enlargement process. however, despite the significant progress made, i believe it is important to continue the reforms initiated, focusing in particular on commitments made in the areas of justice, home affairs and fundamental rights, including the protection of media freedom, the impartial resolution of war crimes cases, the fight against corruption, minority protection, border management, police cooperation, the fight against organised crime and judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, as well as on commitments in the field of competition policy. croatia's commitment to fighting corruption is commendable, and positive progress has been made, for example, in the area of women's rights and gender equality. it is desirable that croatia continue to strengthen good neighbourly relations, to remain an important and active promoter of regional cooperation at all levels, and to support its efforts towards membership with steps that will bring economic, social and human benefits to all citizens of the region.
in writing. − the amendments to the rules of procedure introduce new, clearer and more precise rules and a stricter sanctions regime, which should increase confidence in the european parliament and contribute to transparency in the european union institutions. the rules will be changed in particular in the following areas: introduction of stricter rules and increased transparency to avoid conflicts of interest, clear rules for the financial statement to be made available on the european parliament's website, stricter rules for donations and similar benefits. the possibility of terminating the mandate of the rapporteur in the event of a serious breach of the code of conduct is also essential.
in writing. − the requests of mr uspaskich of 5 and 11 april 2011 should be dealt with together, since they concern the same legal proceedings. the member is subject to criminal proceedings and faces charges in principle of criminal acts of accounting fraud in relation to the financing of a political party in the period prior to his election as a member of the european parliament. on 7 september 2010, parliament lifted the immunity of mr uspaskich on the grounds that no hard evidence had been provided of the existence of fumus persecutionis and that the offences of which the member was accused had no connection with his duties as a member of the european parliament. consequently, on 28 october 2010, viktor uspaskich brought an action before the general court for annulment of the european parliament's decision of 7 september 2010, which he withdrew in july 2011. in his letter of 5 april 2011, in which he asks to be protected from immunity, the member claims that the criminal prosecution initiated by the lithuanian authorities prevents him from performing or makes it more difficult for him to perform his duties as a member by restricting his freedom of movement, in breach of article 7 of the protocol on privileges and immunities. however, after a thorough examination of all the facts available, parliament has concluded that the immunity and privileges of mr viktor uspaskich are not to be preserved and it is forwarding this decision and the report of the committee responsible to the competent authority of the republic of lithuania.
in writing. − the requests of mr uspaskich of 5 and 11 april 2011 should be dealt with together, since they concern the same legal proceedings. the member is subject to criminal proceedings and faces charges in principle of criminal acts of accounting fraud in relation to the financing of a political party in the period prior to his election as a member of the european parliament. on 7 september 2010, parliament lifted the immunity of mr uspaskich on the grounds that no hard evidence had been provided of the existence of fumus persecutionis and that the offences of which the member was accused had no connection with his duties as a member of the european parliament. subsequently, on 28 october 2010, viktor uspaskich brought an action before the general court for annulment of the european parliament's decision of 7 september 2010, which he withdrew in july 2011. in his letter of 5 april 2011, in which he asks to be protected from immunity, the member claims that the criminal prosecution initiated by the lithuanian authorities prevents him from performing or makes it more difficult for him to perform his duties as a member by restricting his freedom of movement, in breach of article 7 of the protocol on privileges and immunities. however, after a thorough examination of all the facts available, parliament has concluded that the immunity and privileges of mr viktor uspaskich are not to be preserved and it is forwarding this decision and the report of the committee responsible to the competent authority of the republic of lithuania.
in writing. − the deepening crisis, inequalities and differences in competitiveness, as well as macroeconomic imbalances and the different functioning of the financial system, have highlighted the need for the european union to address macroeconomic imbalances more appropriately, to coordinate economic policies better and to exercise better budgetary surveillance. a better framework for economic governance should be based on a variety of interlinked policies for sustainable growth and employment. excessive debt and deficits in some member states can have far-reaching negative consequences for other member states and the euro area as a whole. i consider it necessary and important to ensure a closer link between employment, social affairs and economic policies in the context of the european semester. these steps need to be taken in the interest of all generations and in a way that promotes democratic accountability, a sense of ownership and legitimacy for all actors involved. the support and full participation of the european parliament is a prerequisite for achieving this objective. the european semester is the institutional process that is being led by the eu institutions to coordinate more closely the member states' approach to implementing the union's strategy, especially as regards its macroeconomic dimension.
in writing. − the european single market brings enormous benefits to 500 million europeans, opens up new opportunities for the growth of more than 21 million european businesses, and has become a real engine of growth within the european economy. however, in many areas there is still a gap between what people expect from the single market and what they encounter in practice. the first single market forum brought together european businesses, social partners, ngos, expert groups, journalists, national parliaments, the european institutions, public authorities at different levels and european citizens. however, it is important that this forum becomes a regularly recurring event, so that businesses and citizens, as well as local and regional authorities, can directly participate in the further development of the single market and thus jointly influence it. i believe that it would be appropriate for the commission to create an online single market forum as a platform open to the general public, which would allow citizens to keep abreast of developments in the single market and to share experiences and current concerns related to the single market. it is necessary for member states, regional and local authorities, businesses, trade unions and non-governmental organisations to work together to ensure that the rules of the single market work effectively in practice, serving both citizens and businesses.
in writing. − if you have according to the 2010 hiv surveillance report by the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdpc), the countries of the european union and the european economic area reported 25 917 new cases of hiv infection diagnosed in 2009, and the number of infections is increasing at an alarming rate, particularly in eastern europe. a large proportion of hiv infections go undiagnosed, many people do not know their serological status and there is a fairly high probability that they will only know it when they become ill with an hiv/aids-related disease. recent trials have shown the effectiveness of early access to treatment, which significantly reduces infectivity in patients as well as the rate of transmission. however, access to hiv prevention, treatment, care and support services varies widely between member states. social exclusion, hiv-based discrimination, as well as hiv-related silence and denial and the lack of respect for the fundamental human rights of persons living with hiv and of persons belonging to vulnerable groups persist and continue to make hiv prevention, care and treatment more difficult and exacerbate the impact of the epidemic on individuals, families, communities and countries. i am convinced that we must not allow the economic and financial crisis to have a negative impact on the health sector and to reduce investment in areas important to the fight against hiv/aids.
in writing. − ukraine is a country of strategic importance to the eu. given its size, resources, population and geographical location, it occupies a prominent position in europe, making it a key player in the region and having a significant impact on the security, stability and prosperity of the entire continent. the eu strongly advocates a stable and democratic ukraine that respects the principles of a social market economy, the rule of law (including an independent judiciary), human rights and the protection of minorities, and that guarantees fundamental rights. ukraine's leading political and state leaders have repeatedly reaffirmed their commitment to european integration and their long-term ambition to secure ukraine's eu membership, and see the association agreement as a key instrument to achieve this goal. ukraine's european perspective must be based on a policy of systematic and irreversible reforms in a number of important institutional, political, economic and social areas. the framework provided by the association agreement will provide ukraine with a crucial tool for modernisation and a roadmap for domestic reforms, as well as a tool for national reconciliation, which will help the country to overcome recent negative trends, bridge the existing divisions in ukrainian society and unite it in its goal of its european perspective, based on the values of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and good governance.
in writing. − the ukrainian political leadership has repeatedly reaffirmed its commitment to european integration. this has earned it the right to conclude the association agreement which is now being concluded, which would bring about an unprecedented level of integration between the european union and ukraine. however, there are serious concerns about the imprisonment of yulia tymoshenko and the lawsuits against other ministers to prevent them from participating in next year's parliamentary elections. recently, concerns have also been raised about press freedom and the rule of law, not to mention the fact that russia is trying to pressure its neighbour not to sign a free trade agreement with the eu. nevertheless, i believe that we must take the necessary steps to bring the association agreement to fruition. ukraine needs a commitment to reforms, strengthening democratic values and human rights. we must provide adequate financial, technical and legal assistance and support the development of anti-corruption policy in the country. we must also help in the negotiations with russia and in the field of energy security, so that we can strengthen energy cooperation with the european union.
in writing. the customs union of the european union is the cornerstone of the eu. since its inception, it has expanded quantitatively from the original 6 to the current 27 members and qualitatively through its transformation into a single market. it has contributed to europe's prosperity by facilitating trade not only within the union but also with third countries. the current customs system faces a rapidly changing environment changing production and consumption trends, growing international trade, global threats such as terrorism, organised crime, climate change and new dangers such as trade in dangerous goods. it is in this context that the eu customs authorities play a key role. their mission is to ensure that there is a balance between protecting society and promoting trade at all times through control of the supply chain, both at the eu's external borders and within the eu. i believe that it is important to make efforts to modernise customs working methods, with the ultimate aim of maintaining the customs' central position as a modern, responsive trading partner, protecting the financial, consumer and security interests of the union, cooperating with other government agencies, and at the same time having the capacity to respond to crises and new public policy requirements.
the european commission has asked us to amend the interinstitutional agreement on the multiannual financial framework in order to provide additional commitment appropriations of eur 1.3 billion from the european union budget for the iter project in 2012-13. according to the documents submitted, this is to be a budget-neutral adjustment of the transfer of funds between the different headings of the union budgets for the period 2012 to 2013. i do not wish to question the iter project or its contribution to the development of the knowledge of innovation, but the transfer of such a large amount of money speaks either of the poor planning of this project by its main managers or of the superficial work of the commission officials in the preparation of the relevant union budgetary frameworks. the reasoning may exceptionally allow such a transfer of resources. it should not become a routine practice used more often to undermine the budgetary stability of the european union.
in writing. to prevent a deepening energy crisis, europe must ensure the conditions for a long-term and sustainable energy supply. fusion energy can also provide a sustainable solution to europe's and the world's energy problems. the process does not produce greenhouse gases or long-lived radioactive waste and can therefore be a large-scale, permanent source of basic energy for sustainable development. iter will demonstrate and refine the key technologies needed to develop fusion as a safe and environmentally friendly energy source, a field in which europe has been a leader for the past 50 years. we all know that it is extremely challenging to build it, and i am thinking not only of the financial side but also of the technical side. the eu's political prestige is also important in this respect. in the coming period, we will need to commit an additional eur 1300 million to implement this, of which eur 100 million is already in the 2012 budget. the european parliament, together with the council and the commission, should draw up as soon as possible a proposal for the provision of the remaining amounts. i believe iter will bring the promised revolutionary breakthrough that could provide a long-term, radical solution to our energy problems.
i'd like to thank my colleagues jimenez and romero for their work. but i also commend the commission for having drawn up a proposal that could be implemented on the basis of the spanish initiative. i think today's discussion is another important step in protecting victims. it is true that we cannot estimate in advance how many european citizens will be affected by this measure, how many victims or potential victims will have their lives improved. but it also carries an important message, a clear commitment by the european parliament, by the european institutions, to protect the rights of victims. the first part of the package for the protection of victims will be approved in the near future, as the commissioner has mentioned, followed by a directive and a regulation. the message is clear that our institutions stand with the victims, rejecting all forms of violence. while respecting the human rights of the accused during the court proceedings. it is important to prevent the victim from being pursued by the offender from one country to another, taking advantage of the freedom of movement within the union. we also consider it important to adopt the proposal in such a way that the protection order can be enforced in the other country with the easiest administration.
the directive aims to facilitate and strengthen the protection of victims of crime, to prevent the commission of new offences and to mitigate the consequences of previous offences. we welcome the initiative to protect victims of violence and it is clearly necessary to bring it to a legal conclusion. safeguard measures taken in one member state must be recognised, administered and enforced. this system will enable the protected person to avoid parallel proceedings in different member states. there should also be appropriate mechanisms to prevent the same offence or another possibly more serious offence from being committed again. repeated offending is common in gender-based violence, although it also occurs in other forms of crime, such as trafficking in human beings or sexual abuse of minors. offenders are free to move around the european union. it is therefore necessary to allow the scope of protection measures taken in one member state to be extended in order to protect a victim of a crime who wishes to exercise the right of free movement. otherwise, victims of crime will face a difficult choice between renouncing the right of a union citizen to free movement and renouncing the right to protection. that is, of course, unacceptable.
providing protection to persons at risk of criminal offences when they move within the european union is a matter of different legal environments and traditions in the member states. therefore, the introduction of the european protection order also raises the need to carry out a comprehensive comparison of protection measures in civil matters in the various member states in order to achieve the same quality of protection of persons protected by a european union protection order. i am pleased that the european council, in accordance with the resolution on the roadmap for strengthening the protection of the rights of victims in criminal proceedings, supported the linking of the regulation on mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters with the content of the european protection order directive. indeed, persons repeatedly threatened by criminals deserve a good, effective and comprehensive system of protection throughout the european union.
i accept a pragmatic approach to politics in certain cases, but on the other hand i would appreciate more humane and human-law reasoning in the documents received. the often complex administrative steps for the reception of economic migrants need to be simplified, as there are currently significant differences between member states. i welcome the fact that the directive offers the possibility of combating the exploitation and discrimination to which migrant workers are so often exposed. the proposal provides for equal treatment on the basis of a common set of rights in labour market-related areas. the advantage is also to ensure better protection than those workers currently enjoy under existing international conventions, which have been ratified by only some member states. as economic migrants participate in the economic activity of their host country, they must have a protective legal status that protects them from exclusion and discrimination. this status will make it possible to combat unfair competition, which often results from the absence of a legal status.
i appreciate the efforts of the european council to prepare and adopt, in cooperation with the european parliament, a directive on a uniform application procedure and a uniform authorisation for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a member state. in particular, the effort to define a common set of rights for workers from third countries reminds us, i think, that our european citizens, as well as employees or workers in another member state, cannot always count on the same set of rights. our friends from romania and bulgaria are not even legally able to get work in some member states of the union, and the experiences of farm workers doing seasonal agricultural work in the southern member states often speak of disastrous working conditions. perhaps we should not be talking here only about the labour rights of workers from third countries, but rather about the labour rights of the european union in general, equal for all workers.
the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union also provide for fundamental rights of the defence. these include the right to be represented by a lawyer, the right to an interpreter and translation, the right to be informed of charges, the right to a periodic review of detention, and the right to be brought before a court. the current proposal aims to improve the rights of suspects or accused persons, in particular in the area of information on rights and charges. it also includes situations where a person is arrested on the basis of a european arrest warrant for the purpose of criminal prosecution or punishment. the existence of common minimum standards for those rights should facilitate the application of the principle of mutual recognition, thereby improving the functioning of judicial cooperation between the member states of the european union. i agree with the opinion of the committee on legal affairs that the plan to strengthen procedural rights has taken a piecemeal approach. the right to information is presented as the second measure of this plan, leading to a commission proposal which contains half of the bill of rights and partially excludes the other rights. these cover legal advice and legal aid, communication with relatives, employers and consular authorities, and the rights of suspects or accused persons belonging to the category of vulnerable persons. i think the right to information should be complemented by the other rights just mentioned. i thank you very much for your attention, commissioner, and i hope that you will take these suggestions into account in your report.
if a citizen in another eu country is faced with a criminal charge, he often has no idea what he will face in criminal proceedings. thus, a directive of the european parliament and of the council, which defines, in addition to the general right of a party to be informed of procedural rights, two specific types of rights. the right to be informed of the charges and the right of access to the file is a significant step towards ensuring that criminal proceedings against an accused person take place within the countries of the european union, at least in the basic outline, according to the related rules. compliance with common minimum standards on the right to information in criminal proceedings will also allow public authorities to avoid doubts that could later jeopardise the trustworthiness, fairness and legality of criminal proceedings. the proposed directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings will certainly contribute to a significant improvement in the rights of citizens of the european union in criminal proceedings.
last year, without an agreement with neighbouring countries, hungary unilaterally adopted a non-standard system of citizenship, which is allocated on ethnic grounds without any real connection between the citizen and the state. since hungary has refused and continues to postpone communication on this matter, the slovak republic has adopted the appropriate adjustment concerning citizenship. this includes the principle of the loss of citizenship of the slovak republic by voluntary acquisition of citizenship of another state. this principle is not contrary to european standards, but is contained in the european convention on citizenship and is also enshrined in the legislation of several member states of the european union. i therefore recommend to my hungarian colleagues in the european parliament that instead of hysterical nationalist outbursts, they put pressure on the government in budapest to start proper negotiations on this issue with neighbouring states.
the debt crisis is a crisis of confidence. investors in financial markets are afraid to lend more money to governments that have irresponsibly increased their spending. by not implementing reforms, they increased the public sector debt. as the economies of the eu member states are interconnected, the right balance needs to be struck between the responsibility of the states for the economy and solidarity when the economic and social order in one of the member states is threatened with disruption. but massive interventions by the european central bank must not become the standard measure that countries will use every time they get into trouble because of bad economic policies. the consequences would be catastrophic not only for europe but for the whole world. it is necessary to make use of the existing legal framework based on the treaty of lisbon. the convening of a new convention and a series of negotiations will require much more time than europe has at its disposal today.
i agree with the author of the report, mr sturdy, that the wide range of non-tariff measures used in international trade complicates relations between individual countries and economic groups. however, i am convinced that a correct and fair solution must be sought, especially at global level, because, as the author of the report rightly points out, many of these measures, such as technical standards or health certificates, are legitimate. however, measures that are clearly protectionist are also often used and we should eliminate them together. however, this is in the interest of all relevant economies and a common platform for exchanging views and finding solutions is therefore the best way forward.
i do not feel that the outcome of the summit is positive for the citizens of the member states of the european union. i personally, as the representative of a smaller member state, am particularly disturbed by the way in which france and germany meet before the summit itself and de facto inform the other member states of the decisions they have taken, and these decisions are only formally adopted. i also find it troubling that the measures that have been adopted are more restrictive, they are aimed at restrictions in the context of state budgets, but i miss the pro-growth part of these measures, i miss the social-oriented part of these measures. i would very much like to see the convention decide on the fundamental changes that await us in the union, and that the other european institutions should have a much greater opportunity to promote cooperation, even though the decisions that have been taken may be effective in the short term. and i am speaking now specifically of the european parliament, because it is where the directly elected representatives and the european commission sit.
everyone suspected or accused of committing a crime must be informed of his or her rights and these rights must be respected. only then can equality before the law and the administration of justice be guaranteed. this equality, as well as the right to a fair trial, is still guaranteed throughout the eu today. the series of directives to which this directive belongs sets out a minimum standard of information in criminal proceedings. they are intended to facilitate the exercise of those rights. this is necessary because today we have freedom of movement, freedom to settle and work in any country, and the way justice is administered differs from country to country. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of fundamental rights.
a europe without borders is already a given for us, and we don't think much about it. freedom to travel and settle in another member state, to find work and to start a family must also be guaranteed for victims of crime, for anyone at risk of violence. borders are no longer a barrier to criminals, so neither should the protection of victims. some may feel that the adoption of this directive is taking too long. two years of legislative procedures is not a short time. it will take another three years for member states to transpose this directive into their national law. this is to preserve one of the fundamental freedoms which, unlike financial and fiscal policy, is essential for the existence of a united europe. nevertheless, i find this method to be preferable, even though it takes longer to use. it respects the views, laws and values of the member states.
i'm all for simplifying the administration of applying legal immigrants to the job market. but we must not forget the principle of subsidiarity. i also want to remind you that legal migration is not the real solution to the demographic crisis in europe. the number of workers who will be laid off will increase every year. the ratio of pensioners to the number of workers will increase. i ask myself, how many legal immigrants will we need in 20 years if we fail to reverse this trend? legal immigration is just buying time. the only real solution to the demographic problem is family mainstreaming, a policy that takes into account the interests of the family at all times. until the commission and the governments of the member states understand this, we will never have enough legal migrants in europe.
in writing. − the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed on the modalities for providing additional funding for the iter project. in the context of this financing, it is necessary to revise the multiannual financial framework for the years 2007 to 2013 in accordance with points 21, 22 and 23 of the interinstitutional agreement in order to increase the ceilings for commitment appropriations under heading 1a by eur 650 million in 2012 and by eur 190 million in 2013 in current prices. the increase of the ceiling for heading 1a for the years 2012 and 2013 shall be fully offset by a reduction of the ceiling for commitment appropriations under heading 2 and heading 5 for 2011. in order to maintain a proportionate relationship between commitments and payments, the annual ceilings for appropriations for expenditure shall be adjusted. as regards payment claims for the period 2007 to 2013, this adjustment will be neutral. it is therefore appropriate and desirable to amend annex i to the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management accordingly.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 7/2011 to the general budget for 2011 aims to mobilise the eu solidarity fund (esf) to the amount of eur 38 million in commitment and payment appropriations to alleviate the consequences of the earthquake that hit the autonomous region of murcia in spain and the floods in the region of venice in italy. the purpose of the draft amending budget is to formally incorporate this budgetary adjustment into the 2011 budget. the rapid release of financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to the benefit of those affected by natural disasters is of great importance, and therefore, in the case of the floods in the veneto region, it is of the utmost concern that the mobilisation of the eusf will not take place until 13 months after the heavy rains that occurred at the end of october 2010. it is essential that all stakeholders in the member states, i.e. both at local and regional level, as well as national authorities, improve needs assessment and coordination in the event of possible future requests for esi funds assistance in order to maximise the speed of mobilisation of the esi funds. in the specific case of spain and italy described above, both arms of the budgetary authority take their positions with the utmost urgency to guarantee the rapid delivery of assistance to the affected areas.
in writing. − the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for spain and italy on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. spain has requested assistance from the solidarity fund following the damage caused by the earthquake that struck the autonomous community of murcia on 11 may 2011, in particular the city of lorca. nine people were killed, 300 were injured, 10,000 people were evacuated and about 30,000 people spent the first night on the streets. the disaster caused extensive damage to residential houses, businesses, public buildings, cultural heritage sites, the road network and basic infrastructure. the total direct damage is estimated at eur 843 million. italy has requested assistance from the solidarity fund following the heavy rains that hit the region of venice in north-eastern italy between 31 october and 2 november 2010. the effects of the heavy rains were compounded by warm mediterranean winds that melted the snow on nearby mountains. the disaster caused extensive damage to the road network and infrastructure, agricultural production, businesses and residential buildings, which was estimated at eur 3,717 billion. after verifying that the applications submitted fulfil the eligibility criteria under regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, the commission proposed to mobilise the solidarity fund to the amount of eur 21 070 950 for spain and eur 16 908 925 for italy.
in writing. − point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) via the flexibility instrument with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the relevant headings of the financial framework. italy submitted an application for egf/2011/002 in february of this year it/trentino-alto adige/südtirol construction of buildings with a financial contribution from the egf as a result of the redundancies of 643 workers in 323 enterprises operating under nace revision 2 division 41 (building) in the region of trentino-alto adige/südtirol (itd1 and itd2) at nuts ii level in italy. according to the competent authorities, the financial and economic crisis led to a sudden collapse of the world economy with a huge impact on many sectors, while the redundancies in the construction sector could not be foreseen nor could they simply be avoided. after having examined the application in detail, the commission has concluded, in accordance with article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, that the conditions for granting a financial contribution under this regulation are met. i also consider that it is justified to grant financial compensation to italy without delay.
in writing. − article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and article 14 of the international covenant on civil and political rights enshrine the right to a fair trial. article 48 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu guarantees the respect of the rights of the defence. the european union has set itself the objective of preserving and developing an area of freedom, security and justice. it is necessary that the principle of mutual recognition should become the basis of judicial cooperation in both civil and criminal matters within the union, as improved mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions and the necessary approximation of laws would facilitate cooperation between the different institutions as well as the judicial protection of individual rights. the extent to which mutual recognition is applied depends to a large extent on a number of parameters, such as the mechanisms for safeguarding the rights of suspects or the common minimum standards needed to facilitate the application of the principle of mutual recognition. i am convinced that mutual recognition can only work effectively in an atmosphere of trust, where not only judicial authorities but also all parties to criminal proceedings consider the decisions of judicial authorities of other member states as equivalent to their own decisions, which includes not only trust in the adequacy of their partner's rules but also trust in the correct application of those rules.
in writing. − as mr pinxten fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament agrees with the council's proposal to appoint him as a member of the court of auditors and at the same time instructs its president to forward this decision to the council and for information to the court of auditors, as well as to the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states. as a member of the belgian federal parliament during his term of office from 1999 to 2005, mr pinxten was a member of the finance committee and the foreign affairs committee. in 2004, he was elected chairman of the foreign affairs committee. from 22 march 2006 to 18 april 2007, he was an alternate member of the administrative committee of the court of auditors. following the reorganisation of the court of auditors on 1 june 2010, he became a member of the iii chamber for external action and, from january 2011, a substitute member of the administrative committee. since april 2011, he has been chairman of the chamber iii external action and a member of the administrative committee.
in writing. − as mr henrik otbo fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament agrees with the council's proposal to appoint him as a member of the court of auditors and at the same time instructs its president to forward this decision to the council and for information to the court of auditors, the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states. henrik otbo holds a degree in economics and has been the auditor-general of denmark since 1995. since 2004, he has been the chairman of the professional standards committee of intosai, the international organisation of supreme audit institutions. the committee on professional standards is responsible for the development of professional auditing standards used by the supreme audit institutions.
in writing. − as mr juan-francisco corona ramón fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, parliament gives its assent to the council's proposal to appoint him as a member of the court of auditors and at the same time instructs its president to forward this decision to the council and, for the information of the court of auditors, to the other institutions of the european union and to the audit authorities of the member states. juan-francisco corona ramón holds a degree in economics and business studies and a doctorate in economics and business studies. since 1982, he has been teaching and researching at 50 universities in spain and 22 universities abroad, including harvard, sorbonne, heidelberg, kiel, the technical university of berlin, the université libre of brussels, cologne, rome and the lumière university of lyon. he is the author of 42 books and over 300 publications in the most prestigious technical and professional publications, and has acted and advised in many national and international corporations.
in writing. − since ville itälä fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament agrees with the council's proposal to appoint a member of the court of auditors and at the same time instructs its president to forward this decision to the council and for information to the court of auditors, the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states. currently, he is a member of the european parliament, a judge, a lawyer. in 2004-2006, he was vice-president of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats group in the european parliament, served on several committees in the national, finnish and finnish parliaments, and held various positions on the boards and supervisory boards of various companies.
in writing. − the european parliament, having regard to articles 286 (2) and 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in accordance with which the commission has submitted its proposal to it, and also having regard to the fact that the committee on budgetary control, at its meeting of 23 november 2011, heard the council's candidate for membership of the court of auditors, interesting negative opinion and disagrees with the council's proposal to appoint kevin cardiff as a member of the court of auditors. this was done despite the fact that the candidate cites experience in managing budgetary and organisational controls through the approval and control functions at various levels within the ministry of finance. at the same time, the ep hereby authorises its president to forward this decision to the council and, for information, to the court of auditors, the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states.
in writing. − since mr russo fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament gives its consent to the council's proposal and to his appointment as a member of the court of auditors. instructs its president to forward this decision to the council and, for information, to the court of auditors, the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states. from 1993 to 2003, pietro russo was head of cabinet of the italian member of the european court of auditors; in this capacity he monitors the european regional development fund, the european agricultural guarantee fund, the community's own resources and aid to third countries, with particular emphasis on performance audits. he was subsequently employed in the central division of the court of auditors. in august 2009, he was appointed by italy as its representative to the college of nato auditors (as a non-permanent member) based in brussels.
in writing. − as mr vítor manuel da silva caldeira fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament agrees with the council's proposal to appoint him as a member of the court of auditors and at the same time instructs its president to forward this decision to the council and, for the information of the court of auditors, to the other institutions of the european union and to the audit authorities of the member states. vítor manuel da silva caldeira studied law and did postgraduate studies in the field of european studies. he worked as a lecturer at the faculty of law of the university of lisbon, and later at the higher institute for new professions. he was elected president of the court of auditors on 16 january 2008 for a three-year term. re-elected on 12 january 2011 for a second three-year term. as president, he is responsible for overseeing the performance of the court's activities, for relations with the institutions of the european union, for relations with supreme audit bodies and international audit organisations, for legal affairs and internal audit. since 1 june 2010, following the reorganisation, he has been chairman of the administrative committee of the court of auditors.
in writing. − having regard to the fact that mr wessberg fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament agrees with the council's proposal to appoint him as a member of the court of auditors and at the same time instructs its president to forward this decision to the council and, for the information of the court of auditors, to the other institutions of the european union and to the audit authorities of the member states. since his appointment as a member of the court of auditors on 10 june 2011, hans gustaf wessberg has been working in the audit chamber iii, which is responsible for the area of external actions. he also took responsibility for the performance audit on the effectiveness of eu development aid for food security in sub-saharan africa. it also took over the task of auditing the performance of the commission's management of external assistance to 'weak states' where state structures lack the political capacity to provide the basic functions needed to reduce poverty, develop and ensure the security and respect for the human rights of the population.
in writing. − the european union has set itself the objective of preserving and developing an area of freedom, security and justice. in a common area of justice without internal borders, it is necessary to ensure that the protection granted to a particular natural person in one member state is maintained and continued in any other member state to which that person leaves or has left. i consider that it is necessary to focus on the adoption of such protective measures aimed at protecting a person against the crime of another person when that crime would in any way endanger his or her life, physical, mental or sexual integrity, for example by preventing any form of harassment, as well as his or her dignity or personal freedom, for example by preventing kidnapping, harassment and other forms of indirect coercion, and aimed at preventing new crime or limiting the consequences of previous crimes. these personal rights of the protected person correspond to fundamental values recognised and protected in all member states. i consider it necessary to emphasise that the directive in question applies to protection measures which aim to protect all victims, not just victims of gender-based violence, taking into account the specific nature of each type of crime.
in writing. − let me first point out the importance of this act: the mutual recognition of the legal orders issued by one member state is another step towards the creation of a european rule of law area. we consider the creation of a european protection order procedure as a further instrument to fight effectively against criminal acts endangering human dignity. promotion of the integrity of human beings is the cornerstone of the eu fundamental rights charter and it is also a valuable way of offering effective protection against the types of criminal behaviour that are most difficult to detect, such as harassment and stalking, that nowadays represent an important share of the crimes affecting some specific sections of the population especially, namely women and children. with this act we are also ensuring for people the right to mobility without the fear of losing protection from perpetrators of such crimes. let me also praise the spanish and polish presidencies of the eu for having pushed for an effective agreement which sends a strong message to citizens that the right to freedom of movement and to protection is an overarching principle to be defended throughout the whole continent.
in writing. − i believe that a uniform procedure should be applied to work and residence permits. at the same time, it is equally necessary to seek to establish a single set of rights for third-country nationals legally residing and working in one of the member states of the union. the demand for foreign labour is constantly changing and legal immigration could thus play a positive role in economic development and competitiveness. when third-country nationals express an interest in working in a member state of the european union, a uniform procedure for processing applications for authorisation to stay and access to the labour market would significantly simplify the often complex administrative steps involved in the reception of economic migrants. this will also allow member states, inter alia, to respond more flexibly to labour market and labour demand, while at the same time providing an opportunity to combat the exploitation and discrimination that these workers often face. however, a certain degree of legal certainty and transparency is also undoubtedly necessary in the adoption of decisions by the competent national authorities on the handling of such applications, as they have a significant impact on the lives of applicants. it is therefore important that they are assessed as objectively as possible. similarly, unemployed third-country nationals on the territory of the member states should be allowed access to vocational training, vocational training or employment.
in writing. − the objectives of the common fisheries policy, in particular to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources from an economic, environmental and social point of view, while applying the precautionary principle and an ecosystem-based strategy, also apply to waters beyond the territorial waters and the waters of the european union. the eu, together with bulgaria, cyprus, france, greece, malta, romania, slovenia, italy and spain, are parties to the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), which can adopt recommendations and resolutions based on scientific information in order to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living aquatic resources in the mediterranean and black seas at low risk and at levels considered sustainable. the recommendations adopted by the gfcm shall be binding on its contracting parties. the eu is a contracting party, the recommendations are binding on it and should therefore be transposed into union law where the content of the recommendations is not already contained in that legislation. the recommendations should be based on the scientific use of relevant data on fleet capacity and activity, the biological situation of exploited stocks and the social and economic situation of the fishing industry. this information needs to be obtained and submitted in a timely manner in order to allow the gfcm sub-committees to prepare their recommendation and subsequently to implement that recommendation in a proper manner.
in writing. − the european council of 8 and 9 march 2007 in its conclusions stressed that reducing administrative burdens is important for the recovery of the european economy and that intensive joint efforts to reduce administrative burdens within the eu are necessary. accounting has been identified as one of the main areas where the administrative burden of companies within the union needs to be reduced. the high level group of independent stakeholders on administrative burdens, in its opinion of 10 july 2008, called for the swift adoption of legislation on the possibility for member states to exempt micro-entities from the obligation to draw up annual accounts in accordance with directive 78/660/eec. consequently, in its resolution of 18 december 2008 on accounting requirements for small and medium-sized enterprises, and in particular micro-entities, the european parliament calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal to allow member states to exclude micro-entities from the scope of that directive. the objective of this directive, namely to reduce the administrative burden on micro-entities, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states but can rather, by reason of its effect, be better achieved at union level. it is therefore appropriate to amend directive 78/660/eec accordingly.
in writing. − if you have the ongoing global financial crisis and economic downturn have seriously damaged economic growth and financial stability and caused a significant deterioration in the financial and economic conditions of the member states. several member states are experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties, in particular problems of economic growth and financial stability and a deterioration in their deficit and debt situation, also as a result of the international economic and financial situation. despite the fact that important measures have already been taken to counterbalance the negative effects of the crisis, including amendments to the legislative framework, the impact of the financial crisis on the real economy, the labour market and citizens is in many ways very tangible and observable. pressure on national financial resources is increasing and further steps need to be taken to alleviate it, in particular through the maximum and optimal use of european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) funding. in order to facilitate the management of union funds, to help accelerate investment in the member states and the regions concerned and to increase the impact of financing on the economy, i consider it necessary to allow an increase in the eafrd contribution rate to a maximum of 95% of eligible public expenditure in regions eligible under the convergence objective and to 85% of eligible public expenditure in other regions facing serious difficulties in terms of their financial stability.
in writing. − if you have the multilateral rules-based trading system, established under the auspices of the world trade organisation (wto), is the most appropriate framework for regulating and promoting open and fair trade and ensuring the development of fair and impartial rules for world trade. efforts should be made to reform the wto to make it more democratic and efficient and to clarify its relations with other key international organisations. it is necessary that the european union continue to give priority to achieving a balanced outcome of the doha development agenda (dda), thereby promoting the integration of developing countries, in particular least developed countries, into the international trading system and contributing to the establishment and enforcement of fairer and more equitable multilateral trade rules in all countries involved in that system. eu exporters often face various types of restrictions on foreign markets. the union should therefore actively defend its industry against violations of agreed wto rules and standards and principles by its trading partners, where appropriate, using all available means, including multilateral and bilateral dispute settlement mechanisms and trade defence instruments. any obstacles resulting from the inconsistent application of bilateral, plurilateral and multilateral trade rules are unjustified and regulatory dialogue should, in particular, respect the right of all states to strengthen human rights, environmental rules, social rules and public health.
at the moment, in a time of crisis, with member states cutting budgets, it is only natural that less money is also allocated to defence departments. therefore, coordination and planning of common national defence, elimination, economic spending and duplication of common defence policy. at a time of rising extremism, populism, xenophobia and terrorism in europe, a common defence policy by the individual states is more necessary than ever. i am in favour of a common defence policy, but also of joint and coordinated control of the performance of the various defence components, in order to prevent misuse of defence intelligence, for example, as happened recently in slovakia, when defence intelligence misused its powers and listened to its own citizens.
mr president, with the upcoming review of the strategy on eu human rights and democracy, we have a rare opportunity to demonstrate leadership in the enhancement of human rights implementation through foreign policy. it will be very important to get this strategy right, as it will shape policies for a longer period of time. that is why the eu should opt for a really ambitious approach. this will require the preparedness of structures inside the eu, especially the external action service. we need to make sure that we have prepared instruments and well-trained staff. it was encouraging to hear from the high representative that she intends to appoint an eu special representative for human rights who would act as an eu voice in human rights policy internationally and increase coherence of eu policy in this field. the eu human rights strategy needs to ensure the full involvement and commitment of all eu institutions. therefore it should be effectively mainstreamed into eu policies and mechanisms, including those such as development, energy, environment and trade. all in all, it is necessary to ensure that the eu, through its foreign policy instrument, its enlargement processes and as an international actor, plays a clearly strengthened role in shaping human rights and democratisation in the whole world.
turkey is a candidate country for accession to the european union, but i think the foreign policy of the european union cannot wait for the outcome of this process. turkey should therefore be more closely involved in the european union's foreign policy, including through the european neighbourhood policy. it is therefore necessary for the commission, as well as the external service, to find all the ways to involve turkey in the european neighbourhood policy. we see that turkey is actively supporting democratic reforms in the european union's southern neighbourhood. the european neighbourhood policy should involve turkish institutions as well as non-governmental organisations, which would create a synergy effect. it is necessary to renew the structured dialogue between the european union and turkey in order to coordinate the neighbourhood policy of both countries. finally, i think that this approach should also be applied to russia in the light of the new trends.
i would like to support the strengthening of the economic and financial framework of the european neighbourhood policy. if we can find meaningful economic projects, whose operation will bring economic benefits to both parties involved, we will also create a neutral platform for more intensive dialogue, within which social and political issues can also be discussed. as a concrete example, i would mention the interest of russia and ukraine to extend the broad-gauge railway deeper into the territory of the european union. today, this railway terminates at the ukrainian border, and goods transported from the east coast of asia cannot continue smoothly to europe. however, many european companies would also like to take advantage of the reverse direction of such a transcontinental highway to transport their products to the developing asian area. shared gains in employment and economic development would also contribute to a better understanding between europe and the participating countries.
i welcome all the procedures that have been put in place to facilitate the passage of the schengen border. the visa code is an example of this and the visa liberalisation agreements reinforce it even more. this does not mean that we can be content with the present state of affairs. the european union must make progress in simplifying visa issuance and gradually move towards visa-free travel. i would like to stress that attention needs to be given to young people, the synergy between youth on the move and the european neighbourhood policy needs to be strengthened, cooperation in academic education and training needs to be strengthened, exchanges between higher education institutions, public-private partnerships for research and entrepreneurship need to be promoted, and grants and programmes need to be directed to support this idea. it will be necessary to provide for flexible and accelerated visa procedures so that visa liberalisation for the eastern partnerships is not just a declaration.
the quality, safety and natural characteristics of food products are, from the point of view of our citizens, one of the most important areas of supervision by the union authorities, which affects their daily lives. the fact that council directive 2001/112/ec is amended for the second time means that it is necessary to react promptly to changes in production technology and developments in knowledge concerning the quality of such production in order to ensure the necessary quality of fruit juices and similar products. producers often exploit loopholes in the rules and often offer consumers fruit drinks that do not have the composition declared on the packaging. more precise rules on labelling on packaging in relation to the actual composition of fruit drinks, as well as the fact that it will no longer be possible to add sugar to drinks labelled as fruit juice, will enable consumers to distinguish the goods on offer better and to make a more qualified choice from a wide range. i therefore expect broad support for the adoption of this directive.
several european union countries have taken measures to restrict the use of phosphates in detergents. phosphates are synthetic substances that are found in household detergents, washing machines and automatic washing machines, and after use, they end up in our water systems. there they cause excessive algal growth, which produces toxins and causes the death of fish and plants. however, measures by countries restricting the use of phosphates are ineffective, as both washing machine fillers and automatic washing machines are covered by mutual recognition regulations. a pragmatic way of tackling this problem is to adopt regulations on the permissible amount of phosphorus in detergents used in washing machines and automatic washing machines in standard filling units. adopting such harmonised rules would then help us to act in a uniform manner also in our communications with third countries. that would protect us as a whole, the european union.
the past six months of the polish presidency have been extremely difficult. the economic and debt crisis deepened and the union's political institutions had to work very actively to respond quickly to the changing situation. the polish presidency worked very reliably, correctly and without administrative or technical errors during this difficult period. the country also held parliamentary elections and formed a new government. these changes have not adversely affected the sound work of the polish administration in the exercise of the presidency of the union. the whole polish political scene has something to be thankful for. that is to say, the opposition, which during the election campaign did not reduce itself to unfair and unconstructive practices that would have had a negative impact on the polish presidency's mandate. mr president of the polish government, i would like to join those who thank you and your country for the quality and professionalism of your work in guiding the work of the european community over the past six months.
in writing. when the first two v4 countries took over the presidency of the european union the czech republic and hungary i was very happy for them. unfortunately, their presidency has not avoided the problems that have overshadowed its successes. despite the escalating crisis, the polish presidency is clearly a success. to the surprise of many, it was at a time of crisis, when national egos are at play, that the poles were exemplary in their pro-european stance. this was also demonstrated by the recent speech by polish foreign minister sikorski in germany. i believe it will go down in history as a speech by a statesman calling for a federal europe. he spoke directly to german politicians and described to them in person the danger that the european union would face if it were not united. i really must say that the poles dare to talk about a common budgetary, immigration and foreign policy. another important point i take from sikorski's speech is that the crisis in the eu was certainly not caused by enlargement eastwards. while i disagree with the polish minister on what is causing this crisis - in his view budgetary indiscipline, in my view macroeconomic imbalances - i appreciate that he has set out to demolish the myths that are thriving in certain sectors of society among our western neighbours. i believe that the polish presidency will be an example for all those who follow and that the council will thus become a much more pro-european institution. once again, i thank the polish representatives.
the procedure and prevention of the correction of macroeconomic imbalances should include a mechanism to warn member states that are in a high current account deficit or surplus. a scoreboard containing the necessary data on the economic governance of states is also to be a basic prerequisite for the surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances. given the importance of the decisions that will result from the data captured in the evaluation report, it is important that all recorded statistical data are objective and provide the necessary indicative value. i therefore believe that it is extremely important to choose a methodology for collecting input data for the scoreboard that does not allow for their creative modification in the collection process, so that the commission has a correct and objective basis for its work. it is only on the basis of correct data that correct assessments can be made, and this should be the commission's endeavour.
the situation on the eu fruit juice market, where more than 80% of orange juice, the most common raw material, comes from non-european countries and less than 20% from the eu territory, requires the establishment of clear rules governing the composition, use of reserved labels and production specifications and labelling of the products concerned. in general, i support the idea of aligning the fruit juices sector with international regulations and codex alimentarius standards. i also agree to maintain the distinction between fruit juices obtained by simple pressing and fruit juices from concentrates and to remove sugar from the list of permitted additives. a clear nomenclature will help particularly sensitive groups of consumers, such as diabetics, children and people with overweight or obesity problems, to make an informed decision when buying a product that affects their health.
i welcome the compromise and i supported the report. however, i would point out that the attempt to artificially restrict imports and encourage domestic production will always end up hurting consumers the most. therefore, any change in the minimum product quality standards must be considered very sensitively, since any legally enforced change in technology means an increase in price. i'm all for quality fruit juices and consistent consumer awareness. if two producers are of equal quality, i always prefer the european one to the foreign one. i also want to know if the juice is from the concentrate. however, i also supported the proposal that concentrated juice could continue to be diluted with drinking water. this will keep concentrated fruit juices available to children from lower income families.
we all want to walk in clean clothes and eat from clean plates. that's why we use phosphate detergents. because the harder the water, the more phosphates are needed to clean dirty dishes and clothes. we know that phosphates released into the sewers cause excessive algae growth and thereby cause the decline of other life forms in our rivers. in other words, the use of phosphates is harmful to the environment. let me ask you two questions: is it possible to wash clean without phosphates? in principle, yes. is it possible to stop using phosphates in dishwashers? not yet, no. so it's right to try to limit their use, but at the same time accept the fact that we need them. but i am a little concerned that we cannot even estimate how many jobs are threatened by the proposed harmonisation.
i wanted to comment on the further deepening of cooperation between the european union and russia. i think it's a step in the right direction, and after all, we are realistically looking at this kind of cooperation, especially with the huge raw material potential of the russian federation and our cooperation and individual countries with this raw material giant. on the other hand, i would like to point out that russia is still not completely behind, so to speak, in fulfilling certain criteria which we in europe consider to be important and necessary. i am also thinking of the recent elections, which showed that a certain deficit still exists in russia, and i am pleased to say that ..... or i am calling on the european union, i would like to say that in its negotiations with russia, it is also necessary to point out this dimension of mutual cooperation and to call on them to eliminate this democratic deficit.
the current period of political unrest and uncertainty in the countries of north africa requires the european neighbourhood policy to redouble its efforts to strengthen democracy, the development of the rule of law, justice and respect for human rights, including minority rights and freedom of religion. we know christians are persecuted there. more than ever, there is a need to put greater emphasis on internal democratisation and stabilisation of target countries through the strengthening of state institutions and at the same time of civil society, which is to be an important partner in the discussions on the future of the country. given the cultural, religious and civilizational diversity of the european union's neighbouring countries, the european union must provide well-targeted assistance in line with the principle of differentiation in order to increase the real impact of the measures taken. in addition to supporting reform processes, there is a need to discuss and seek common solutions to cross-border issues such as migration, trafficking in human beings and the fight against organised crime.
mr president, i believe that the review of the european neighbourhood policy is timely and necessary. it can become an important tool for the eu to make a difference in our neighbourhood countries. it needs to be oriented towards supporting values such as broad democratic developments and human rights. i welcome therefore the more-for-more performance-based approach which gives greater political and financial support to the countries that undertake reforms. coming from a country which went through such transformation, i am sure that this approach is the right one. i am also glad that the report confirmed new tools such as the european endowment for democracy. i hope that such flexible, fast and targeted instruments will be able to effectively support the democratic process in the world; that is the reason i voted for the adoption of the report.
in writing. − if you have in its conclusions of 17 june 2010, the european council stated that iceland fulfils the political criteria set by the copenhagen european council in 1993 and welcomed the commission's opinion on iceland's application for eu membership. for these reasons, the european council decided to open negotiations with iceland. that is why iceland is a candidate country. subsequently, in december 2010, the european council endorsed the council conclusions of 14 december 2010 on enlargement and agreed to grant candidate country status also to montenegro. the commission therefore proposes to the council and the european parliament to amend council regulation (ec) no 1085/2006 of 17 july 2006 establishing an instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) in view of the transfer of iceland and montenegro from the list of potential candidate countries to the list of candidate countries. in fact, council regulation (ec) no 1085/2006 clearly distinguishes between candidate and potential candidate countries. in view of the clarification of the rules on participation in grant agreements financed under the cross-border cooperation component of the ipa and to ensure coherence with other instruments of external cooperation, in particular the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, it is justified to propose amendments to article 19 of the aforementioned council regulation (ec) no 1085/2006.
in writing. the fruit juice market in the european union accounts for 10% of the total consumption of soft drinks. as regards the breakdown of this market, the production of fruit juices from concentrate is predominant compared to juices produced directly. as far as the world fruit juice market is concerned, the european union countries are largely supplied by the spanish market and by brazil. directive 2001/112/ec of 20 december 2001 relating to fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption lays down specific provisions concerning the production, composition and labelling of fruit juices and similar products in order to promote their free movement within the european union. i believe that these rules should be adapted to technical progress and take account of developments in relevant international standards. the ordinary legislative procedure provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union will apply to this newly proposed directive. this will now take account of the redefinition of the commission's powers (articles 290 and 291 of the treaty). consequently, the proposed directive amends articles 7 and 8 of the current directive by including all implementing measures in the category of delegated acts.
in writing. − phosphates from detergents have a negative impact on water management. they contribute to the accelerated growth of algae and higher plants, thus disturbing the ecological balance in our waters, especially in particularly vulnerable areas such as the baltic sea and the danube basin. in 2010, the commission put forward a proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 648/2004 on detergents by introducing restrictions on phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household detergents, and its proposal is very welcome. but there is another source of phosphates, and that is from automatic dishwasher detergents. the general objective of this proposal is, in particular, to reduce the negative impact of such substances on the aquatic environment. however, national legislation in the eu is already reflecting a trend away from the use of phosphates in detergents, with some member states seeking to apply restrictions to household detergents and some already imposing restrictions on these products used in automatic dishwashers. i welcome the establishment of a reasonable time limit for phosphorus in detergents, which can thus support the necessary innovation to accelerate the transition to phosphate-free formulations, but at the same time also allow sufficient time to reduce the negative consequences for manufacturers. this will also ensure harmonisation in the internal market.
in writing. − the kingdom of morocco is an african country with a population of approximately 32 million. morocco is currently a privileged partner of the european union and the largest recipient of eu funding under the european neighbourhood policy. the union is morocco's most important export market, its main public and private external investor and its most important tourism market. morocco has long been an important economic pillar, particularly the fishing industry, and the country is considered the largest fish market in africa, with the fishing sector estimated to provide some 400 000 jobs. the eu and the kingdom of morocco concluded a fisheries partnership agreement on 22 may 2006, which entered into force on 28 february 2007. following the expiry of the initial protocol, the european commission, acting on a mandate from the council, negotiated with the kingdom of morocco the extension of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement for one year. the council has not yet adopted the new protocol, but the european parliament must give its consent. i believe it is right that the european parliament has given its consent and at the same time instructed its president to forward this position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and the kingdom of morocco.
in writing. − the european parliament, taking into account the proposal of the conference of presidents and also having regard to its decision of 15 july 2009 on the number of members of parliamentary committees, decided to amend the number of members of parliamentary standing committees. with the entry into force of protocol no 36 to the treaty of lisbon, new members are entitled to sit in the european parliament and its bodies, making full use of their rights. the changes in the number of members concerned twenty parliamentary committees and two subcommittees (the subcommittee on human rights and the subcommittee on security and defence). parliament also decided that committee chairs could have up to four vice-chairs. the decision to change the number of members of the standing committees was simultaneously forwarded by parliament, through its president, for information to the council and the commission.
in writing. − the european parliament, taking into account rule 198 of its rules of procedure and also its decision of 14 september 2009 on the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees, delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and to multilateral parliamentary assemblies, decided to amend the number of members in four interparliamentary delegations, namely the delegation for relations with the arabian peninsula, the delegation for relations with india, the delegation for relations with the korean peninsula and the delegation for relations with the republic of south africa. at the same time, with the entry into force of protocol 36 to the treaty of lisbon, new members are entitled to sit in the european parliament and its bodies and to exercise their rights to the full. the ep also forwarded, through its president, this decision relating to the change in the number of members of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees and delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies for information to the council and the commission.
in writing. − if you have by letter of 1 december 2011, the european council consulted the european parliament on the appointment of benoît coeure as a member of the executive board of the european central bank for a period of eight years. the economic and monetary affairs committee assessed the proposed candidate's qualifications, in particular with regard to the conditions set out in article 286 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the requirement of full independence of the european central bank under article 130 of the treaty. during this examination, the candidate submitted a cv and replied to the written questions addressed to the committee. on the basis of the above, parliament endorsed the council recommendation to appoint mr benoît coeuré as a member of the executive board of the european central bank and instructed its president to forward this resolution to the european council, the council and the governments of the member states. benoît coeuré was head of multilateral affairs and development at the french treasury from 2007 to 2009, and for the last two years he was deputy director-general of the french treasury. among others, he co-chaired the g20 working group on the reform of the world bank and other multilateral development banks (2009) and the g20 sub-work group on global liquidity management (2011). in 2005, he was nominated for the prize for the best young french economist.
in writing. − the kingdom of morocco is an african country with a population of approximately 32 million. morocco is currently a privileged partner of the european union and the largest recipient of eu funding under the european neighbourhood policy. the union is morocco's most important export market, its main public and private external investor and its most important tourism market. morocco has long been an important economic pillar, particularly the fishing industry, and the country is considered the largest fish market in africa, with the fishing sector estimated to provide some 400 000 jobs. the eu and the kingdom of morocco concluded a fisheries partnership agreement on 22 may 2006, which entered into force on 28 february 2007. following the expiry of the initial protocol, the european commission, acting on a mandate from the council, negotiated with the kingdom of morocco the extension of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement for one year. the council has not yet adopted the new protocol, but the european parliament must give its consent. i believe it is right that the european parliament has given its consent and at the same time instructed its president to forward this position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and the kingdom of morocco.
in writing. − if you have the recent trend of cutting the defence budgets of most member states of the european union has reached a peak, mainly as a result of the financial, economic and debt crisis. such measures consequently have a negative impact, in particular, on the union's ability to effectively assume its responsibilities for maintaining peace, preventing conflict and strengthening international security in accordance with the principles of the un charter. i consider it important to stress that defence is a public good affecting the security of all european citizens and that all member states must contribute to it in a spirit of cooperation, burden-sharing and cost-effectiveness. in an increasingly complex and unpredictable security environment, it is desirable that all member states cooperate more closely and coordinate their actions against the common threats identified in the european security strategy and fully assume their share of responsibility for peace and security in europe, its neighbourhood and the world. it is the enhanced european defence that will contribute to the eu's strategic autonomy and make an important contribution to common security within nato and other partnerships. the european defence agency should be the main focus of the eu's defence efforts in response to the financial crisis. increasing its budget, staff, areas of responsibility and overall powers would allow it to work better on optimising the eu defence sector, while at the same time avoiding cost duplication and financially unsustainable defence policies.
in writing. − member states are also cutting defence and security budgets as a result of the financial, economic and debt crises. let us not forget the main reason why the european union was created. for many years, it has brought peace and security to europe, its neighbours and the world. we have also been working for some time to ensure that all member states work more closely together and coordinate their actions against common threats identified in the european security strategy. without financial support for the exchange of information, structures, cooperation in research and technological development, etc., the desired results and a strengthened european defence are not possible. on the contrary, we will jeopardise the eu's enhanced strategic autonomy and common security within nato and other partnerships.
in writing. − despite the serious and far-reaching consequences of the economic crisis, relations between the european union and russia have been developing steadily over the past decades. they lead to comprehensive economic integration and interconnectedness, and this is likely to deepen in the future. the conclusion of the eu-russian federation strategic partnership agreement is of key importance for the further development and strengthening of cooperation between the two partner countries. for example, security of energy supply is one of europe's greatest challenges and one of the main areas of cooperation with russia. their joint efforts should be directed towards the efficient use of energy and energy systems and should be further developed as appropriate. on the other hand, however, concerns remain about developments in the russian federation with regard to respect for and protection of human rights and respect for commonly agreed democratic principles, rules and procedures. the russian federation is a full member of the council of europe and the organization for security and cooperation in europe, and has committed itself to the principles of democracy and respect for human rights. i therefore believe that it is important and necessary to respect these principles.
in writing. − to the east and south of the european union lie 16 countries whose future will have a direct and significant impact on us. the events of the past period have made this even clearer, by highlighting the challenges we face together. the overthrow of long-standing repressive regimes in egypt and tunisia, the ongoing war conflict in libya, the recent violent intervention in syria, the ongoing repression in belarus and the unabated long-running conflicts in the region, including the middle east, call for a reassessment of the european union's relationship with its neighbours. it is also necessary to support the positive progress made by other neighbours, such as the republic of moldova with its reforms, ukraine in its association agreement negotiations or morocco and jordan in their constitutional reforms. the lisbon treaty gives the eu the opportunity to strengthen its foreign policy. cooperation with neighbouring countries can now be extended to cover a wider range of issues in a more coherent and effective way. this possibility was the main impetus for the launch of the revision of the european neighbourhood policy as early as the summer of 2010, after consultation with partner countries and other stakeholders. i believe that the union should be able to respond adequately to the historic challenges that have been posed to european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy is relatively new it was established in 2004. however, in its short history, it has faced a number of challenges, including political upheavals in the countries of the so-called arab spring, repression in belarus and the final phase of croatian integration. i therefore fully agree with my colleagues the rapporteurs: the basic conditions for democratic reforms, respect for human rights and the rule of law must be clearly defined for the countries of the european neighbourhood. the european union has very few effective tools to shape its environment. the effective use of soft power in the european neighbourhood policy is one of the few ways in which it can have a positive impact on neighbouring countries' integration into the eu or deepening cooperation. it is the policy of 'more for more' and above all 'less for less' that is perhaps the only way we can penalise any failure to meet the eu's key objectives.
in writing. − if you have the eu counter-terrorism strategy and the action plan implementing it take a broad approach to defining the measures and tools that can contribute to the fight against terrorism. one of the main challenges is to prevent radicalisation and recruitment leading to the willingness to commit a terrorist act. the europol report on the situation and trends in terrorism for 2010 shows that many terrorist and extremist organisations are supported by active organised groups of young people, who pose a particular problem in some member states as potential propagators of radicalisation and terrorist recruitment. extremist ideologies continue to attract the attention of vulnerable persons prone to committing crimes, and the risks associated with the radicalisation of young people remain high. in recent years, the european union has introduced a number of important policy measures to prevent radicalisation and terrorist recruitment, and efforts to implement and promote these measures continue. i believe that it is necessary and necessary to strike the best possible balance between the duty to protect citizens from harm and to guarantee their safety on the one hand, and to respect and uphold their individual rights on the other.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very ambitious report and i appreciate her approach, as this is a very sensitive subject. i also welcome the intensive and open dialogue with the political groups. that is why i voted in favour of this joint decision. i would just like to emphasise that to make the fight against terrorism in the eu more effective, it is essential to strengthen cooperation between the judiciary and the police, which we have finally succeeded in doing at european level. it is also important to strengthen democratic oversight by the european parliament and national parliaments, and transparency and access to documents in this area throughout the eu. for all this, we need new and, above all, effective legislative measures, an efficient and comprehensive legislative framework in the eu that also ensures a high level of data protection.
for the s&d group. unlike the rapporteur, i believe that the transparency of the european union's legislative process is something without which we cannot speak of the legitimacy of the european institutions and of the democratic nature of the european union as such. the commission has now unfortunately to say that the current draft regulation does not sufficiently respond to the new framework of the lisbon treaty and in some respects limits the draft regulation compared to the previous version. the most significant step is the redefinition of the concept of a document in article 3, which forms the core of the regulation. instead of narrowing the definition of the term document, we believe that its scope should be broadened to include official information. access by applicants to certain information would allow them to request specific information to be made available in a more precise, targeted and comprehensive manner. this would avoid the receipt of large amounts of unnecessary data, the provision of which would entail additional costs. the new definition would also facilitate partial access to certain classified documents and allow a clear distinction between informal and official information. mr vice-president, i have no doubt that it is of the utmost importance to you too that full access to all documents relating to closed proceedings is ensured. however, the commission's proposal, which gives member states the right to refuse access to documents on the basis of their legislation, is in our view contrary to the jurisdiction of the european court of justice and is therefore unacceptable to us.
public access to european union documents should be seen as a fundamental right of citizens voters of the bodies of the european union to access information on the work of the institutions which represent them. i understand the commission's approach, which left the revised version of regulation 1049/2001 in the legislative process and supplemented it in march this year with a second proposal extending the rights of the public to access documents of all the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies under article 15 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i see the commission's approach as an attempt to achieve the required changes more quickly. i also agree with the minority comments made in accordance with rule 52 (3) of the rules of procedure, as some of the amendments in mr cashman's report go slightly beyond the necessary framework of disclosure to achieve the necessary level of public scrutiny. i am convinced that the commission's good intentions to extend public access to union documents must be developed in a qualified manner and that counterproductive disputes about disclosure of confidential information, which for various reasons is not really appropriate to disseminate, must be avoided.
we have just had the adoption of the directive on the protection of pregnant women, women who have given birth and women who are breastfeeding. the so-called maternity leave directive. the european parliament has so changed the text of the directive that after almost three years it is not possible to find a consensus between the institutions and this is to the detriment of the citizens of the european union. i am convinced that this text will suffer the same fate, as indicated by the european commission and the european council. if we strip people naked at airports because we suspect they have explosives under their clothes or under their pants, they'll stop using planes. now you're proposing a text that would make institutions, agencies and other organisms walk around naked in front of the world. it's refreshing, something new, but not very helpful. unless we want to discourage citizens from a federal europe, in which case i would support it.
the efforts to create a single european transport area are ambitious, but currently run into problems of divergent transport regulations. in particular, the development of international rail transport is severely limited by national measures. therefore, a reasonable degree of harmonisation of the rules for the different modes of transport, allowing smooth transport activities across the entire territory of the union without undue local constraints, is a fundamental prerequisite for the creation of a universal european transport area. however, common european rules should not only harmonise the rules governing the operation of the various modes of transport, but also the technical characteristics of the means of transport. more than a quarter of emissions are produced by the transport sector. administrative pressure to reduce emissions in all modes of transport should therefore be a permanent and serious part of european transport policy.
the impact of european transport policy on the quality of everyday life of eu citizens and on the development of the european union and its regions is undeniable. the transport sector accounts for around 5% of gdp and provides around 10 million jobs. the transport sector contributes significantly to the prosperity of industrial policy, enhances competitiveness and the trade balance. the quality of transport infrastructure is also closely linked to europe's status as an industrial and economic centre on a global scale. for the above reasons, the european union needs a fully functional single european transport area with interconnections and interoperability. border barriers between member states should be gradually removed in all modes of transport in order to eliminate the persistent differences and inequalities between european regions. in this context, it is therefore undesirable that different modes of transport should compete with each other. on the contrary, the different modes of transport should complement each other and ... (interruption of the member's speech).
a recent european commission survey on the application of the union criminal law in the area of deprivation of liberty confirmed a number of problems in this area in the member states. the fact that the european court of human rights has also been condemned by the member states in terms of the conditions of detention, the length of pre-trial detention and the administration of justice only confirms the commission's recent findings. as questions relating to pre-trial detention or conditions of detention also fall partly within the competence of the union, the commission has a certain margin of manoeuvre in this area, in particular in relation to the more frequent detention of foreign nationals or the application of the european arrest warrant or the european surveillance warrant. the procedural requirements for the detention of suspects in pre-trial detention, the maximum length of their detention, but also the conditions of accommodation or medical care could therefore be harmonised on the basis of european union standards in order to eliminate differences in detention conditions between the different member states of the union.
for the efd group. the second phase of the transition period for romania and bulgaria, during which a transitional period of employment restrictions in some countries of the union will apply to both countries, will end at the end of this year. if countries applying these restrictions wish to continue to restrict the employment of romanian and bulgarian nationals, they will have to provide evidence that the opening of the labour market would cause them serious labour market problems. in order to make this process more objective, it would be appropriate for the commission to formulate conditions which it considers acceptable as justifying the continuation of restrictions on the employment of nationals of other member states. the correct conduct of member states in applying such sensitive restrictions should be subject to qualified assessment and supervision by the political bodies of the union in order to avoid misconduct and the creation of unnecessary disputes between community countries. restricting labour mobility without genuine serious reasons is an unfortunate solution, because it leads to an increase in undeclared work from which no legitimate contributions are made to the pension or tax system of the country where the undeclared worker is employed. to tolerate such a state without proper justification is immoral and a disgrace to the system that allows it.
the european union provides financial and humanitarian aid to many developing countries. one such country is afghanistan, which has long been plagued by civil war. however, the unstable security situation in the country makes it impossible to exercise the necessary oversight over the distribution and actual use of the financial assistance provided. the risk of fraud, corruption, non-compliance with rules or efficiency criteria is very high in such an environment. therefore, it is necessary to focus more on best practices and procedures that have proven themselves in the provision of civil assistance and to prefer to support long-term projects on which the success and usefulness of the expenditure of funds can be monitored at different time points. if such a project fails, it can be stopped and modified in time.
it should be noted that in this space there is also a rather strong russian influence and russian tradition of the way of governing. this means that if we want to help this region, we should stay and act in this area, because if we withdraw, as the rapporteur has suggested, we will hand over the whole area to the administration of powers such as china and russia, and the people who live in this territory will have no alternative, they will have no vision of the better society that we are offering them. so from that perspective, i think we should stay in this space and we should strive for this combination of trade, economic cooperation and then we should follow that with human rights. because even for those governments that are in this region, if they see some profit behind our projects, some improvement in the standard of living, then they will think more about what we want from them in terms of human rights, and if those economic projects are beneficial and profitable for them, then they will be willing to accept our worldview and our human rights criteria and change the structure of their society. so the procedure has to be combined. don't expect success right from the start.
despite the fact that there is a large body of community legislation on safety and health at work, the practical experience of workers in everyday life shows that the legislation adopted is often not sufficient. ensuring respect for one of the fundamental rights, the right to health, requires regular modernisation of legislation and its implementing measures in line with the latest medical knowledge on health risks. i consider the main current problem to be the lack of attention paid to chemical hazards, which have a highly negative impact on workers. comprehensive studies of such risks are still lacking, although the incidence of cancer and other chronic diseases is increasing rapidly. workers should be informed truthfully and appropriately about the risks associated with long-term exposure to carcinogens, which unfortunately cannot yet be replaced. at the same time, the identification of such substances must lead to their replacement without undue delay.
i agree that we need to continue to strive for continuous improvement in the safety of our workers. but it should be noted that the economic situation is pressuring employers to save on protective equipment, to save on safety training, even to the point of applying for undeclared work. on the other hand, this economic situation is also putting pressure on the unemployed, on people who want to work and are willing to risk more for employment, for getting a job and are willing, of course, in some cases, to work for nothing. it is therefore necessary to be able to react very quickly and promptly to the social changes that are currently taking place and to amend our labour regulations to respond to this situation. it must be stressed that the employer must always be fully responsible for occupational safety. he has to train his employees, he has to provide them with protective equipment, and he has to, of course, bear the consequences of any injury or accident. employees need to be helped in legal proceedings and in recovering damages, then employers also learn that they are responsible for any injuries or damage to health. so from this point of view, we need to get more into our legislation and try to improve these rules.
first of all, i'd like to thank my colleagues for asking the question. european policy must be an innovation orientation capable of ensuring a long-term and sustainable energy supply for the whole of the european union. the russian gas crisis, the fukushima nuclear disaster and the depletion of our fossil fuels are all driving us to find answers to the energy question of the future as soon as possible. the intelligent energy europe programme developed by the commission certainly represented such a direction. its main objective is to provide clean, safe and sustainable energy for future generations. it promotes energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. not only can we help our small and medium-sized enterprises with this programme, but we can also stimulate innovative solutions, create jobs and support education and research. however, the scheme was not specifically included in the next scheme. i would therefore ask the commission to do everything possible to ensure that this programme continues to operate. i think that despite the concerns about fukushima, nuclear energy can be considered as a smart energy. it has been demonstrated that nuclear energy is capable of producing unlimited, clean, safe and carbon-free energy. such a power source could be the fusion reactor as a result of the iter project. nuclear energy should therefore be given a stable place in the intelligent energy programme.
to achieve sustainable economic growth, the european union needs to be secure in its energy resources. the union is currently heavily dependent on their imports, mainly from africa and asia. europe does not have the oil or gas resources to afford not to look for alternative energy solutions, so it was natural to launch the smart energy programme, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources and modern sustainable energy solutions. however, the smart energy programme is only scheduled to run until the end of 2013, and therefore we need to ask ourselves today how we will continue with the initiatives on innovative energy and solutions beyond 2013. i, like my colleagues, expect the european commission to give us an answer to this question, which is very topical today, in the near future.
the annual report on competition in the european union assesses the state of play of european competition policy. despite the union's extensive and numerous measures to promote fair and equitable competition in trade, our citizens still signal to us certain reservations about the fair functioning of operators on the european market. in particular, in the area of food prices, price fixing opacity is a very sensitive and closely monitored issue. a more precise cost analysis of prices and margins in all areas of the food supply chain could certainly contribute to the objectification of price levels and to the improvement of consumer confidence. similarly, the steady increase in energy prices is seen and marked by a strong distrust of consumers and a belief that energy suppliers are abusing their dominant position. greater transparency in energy pricing and better supervision by regulatory authorities could help to restore consumer confidence in this area as well. the absence of real competition in the mobile roaming market is also a problem that is reflected in prices and concerns most of our citizens on a daily basis. it is therefore important to monitor the level of competition continuously and to react promptly to distortions that arise.
in writing. competition policy is the key instrument that will enable the european union to build a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market and to compete successfully on the global stage. however, protectionism and non-enforcement of competition rules can deepen and prolong the crisis. cartels are the most serious threat to competition, consumer welfare and the proper functioning of markets. we can't accept them even in a time of economic crisis. the temporary regime applicable to state aid has been beneficial as an initial response to the crisis, but its application cannot be unduly prolonged. the provisional measures and exemptions should be lifted as soon as possible and as soon as the economic situation allows otherwise the situation may not be sustainable. it is necessary to introduce a new, permanent system of regulation of the application of state aid rules in order to address the shortcomings identified in the pre-crisis legal system, in particular as regards the financial sector, as well as to correct the distortions that have arisen during the financial and economic crisis.
in writing. competition policy is a policy conducive to a healthy, competitive business environment. therefore, state aid must also be allocated only in such a way that it does not distort competition, favouring existing companies over newly created ones. it also does not favour large companies over smes, foreign investors over domestic ones. the granting of state aid must be subject to clear criteria, which must also be rigorously controlled. i support the request for a study of the application of state aid rules to determine whether the differences between member states do not cause distortions of competition. if a derogation is granted, it must be justified and in accordance with the rules that it does not unduly distort competition.
in writing. − in its resolution of 16 december 2010 on a new strategy for afghanistan, parliament identified a number of important issues concerning budgetary control of eu financial assistance to afghanistan. this country is among those receiving the majority of civil aid from the general budget of the union. however, it is of serious concern that a significant part of international aid is lost in the distribution chain, in particular through waste, excessive costs of intermediation and security, excessive invoicing and corruption. for this reason, it is essential that the commission oversees and monitors the costs and effectiveness of all eu assistance in afghanistan in order to improve its effectiveness. the overall objective of eu development assistance to afghanistan should be to support the long-term and sustainable development of the country, including the improvement of socio-economic standards, facilitating job creation and the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, strengthening the education sector and ensuring gender equality. such assistance should further facilitate capacity building in the public administration, strengthen the rule of law and curb corruption, thereby helping to shift responsibility for security to the government of the islamic republic of afghanistan. i believe that there is an urgent need to increase aid effectiveness, as many development indicators still show no significant improvement and corruption and the long distribution chain of international aid remain the main obstacles to the provision of basic services to the population.
in writing. − afghanistan is a country that has been, and still is, torn by war and conflict. these conflicts continue to take a heavy toll on afghanistan and its people. afghanistan's territorial wars have characterized the country for virtually the entire 20th century. the terrorist attacks of 2001 and the presence of terrorist organisations in afghanistan have unfortunately not changed much. i therefore fully agree with my colleague geir who proposes direct aid to afghanistan from the european union budget, which is currently missing. i firmly believe that with strict financial control of such funding and expertise - whether from the eu or our american partners - we will be able to come up with a solution that will really help afghanistan. the most important areas, apart from the independence of the judiciary which was highlighted by mr geier, i consider to be improving the situation in the field of education. because only in this way can sustainable development be achieved and the situation be resolved in the long term.
in writing. − competition policy rules and practices are undergoing a constant process of adaptation in order to contribute to the eu's main objectives, which include building the single market, making it work for the benefit of consumers, and achieving a competitive social market economy. it is noteworthy that while the environment in which eu competition policy operates is undergoing profound changes such as rapid technological development, enlargement or globalisation, the various provisions of the 1957 treaty prohibiting certain anti-competitive agreements and the abuse of a dominant position are not affected by time, nor are the state aid provisions, which testifies to their inherent applicability in different circumstances. given the commission's exclusive competence in competition policy, as confirmed by the treaty of lisbon, the commission is empowered to adopt more detailed rules on how it intends to use its main instruments the provisions of the treaty relating to antitrust policy, the provisions on mergers and state aid. since the beginning of the implementation of eu competition policy, it has been characterised by two main priority features, namely its contribution to the construction and maintenance of the internal market and its contribution to the interests of consumers. at the same time, competition policy supports the european union's main objectives, as enshrined in the treaties: a competitive market, economic, social and territorial cohesion and sustainable development.
in writing. − the commission's 2010 competition report is essentially about limiting and remedying the economic crisis processes and their consequences that have recently started. for four decades, competition policy has been the essential foundation of economic cooperation since the beginning of the community. today, market movements distorted by the crisis must also be addressed by proper regulation. the commission has tried to respond effectively to the economic crisis by adopting state aid rules within the framework of competition policy. i agree with the rapporteurs that a global approach to competition rules is also needed. the report covers a number of sectors, including the call for the swift implementation of the internal energy market package to achieve an open and competitive single energy market. the introduction of effective cost analysis at all stages of the food supply chain is equally important to protect consumers' interests. the commission's guidelines on the rescue and restructuring of the banking sector are also inevitable and their consideration and application will have to be monitored. i agree that future temporary state aid to the banking sector should be subject to stricter conditions and that more ethical retail lending should also be given due consideration. the market distortions caused by the crisis can only be remedied by a common union decision. i voted in favour of the report of the economic and monetary committee, as i believe that competition policy is a key factor in developing the eu into a dynamic, well-functioning and innovative internal market and in strengthening competitiveness on the world market.
in writing. − the financial and economic crisis that erupted in autumn 2008 continues and member states are at risk of a long-term recession. i agree that protectionism and non-enforcement of competition rules will in no way contribute to solving the crisis. on the contrary, a well-designed competition policy should help to build a dynamic and innovative internal market that can compete successfully in the world. cartels remain the most serious threat to competition, consumer welfare and the proper functioning of markets, even in times of crisis, and the imposition of fines as an enforcement tool is therefore justified. however, i believe that the commission should examine individual cases with particular care and ensure that the amount of the fines does not irreparably jeopardise the economic viability of the undertaking concerned, leading to its bankruptcy, liquidation and consequently also a high level of job losses. the crisis requires that responses to the challenges posed take account of the complex economic and social context and do not penalise even more eu citizens.
in writing. − point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) via the flexibility instrument with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the relevant headings of the financial framework. the rules applicable to the financial contributions from the egf are laid down in regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund. on 9 october 2009, france submitted an application egf/2009/019 fr/renault for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in renault s.a.s. and its seven subsidiaries in france. the request refers to 1 384 redundancies at renault s.a.s. and its six suppliers and to a further 3 061 redundancies at renault s.a.s. and its seven suppliers outside the reference period, but which are covered by the same voluntary redundancy scheme. after a thorough examination of the application, the commission concluded that the conditions for granting a financial contribution were met.
in writing. − article 255 of the treaty establishing the european union, as amended by the treaty of amsterdam, confers on citizens of the european union and on natural and legal persons residing or having their registered office in a member state the right of access to european parliament, council and commission documents. the principles and limits governing this right of access were laid down in regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 regarding public access to european parliament, council and commission documents, which entered into force on 3 december 2001. however, since it has been substantially amended several times, it is appropriate, in the interests of clarity and better understanding, to recast that regulation. transparency in the legislative process is of paramount importance to citizens. the institutions should therefore actively disseminate documents that are part of the legislative process. and such actions should be encouraged in other areas as well. however, given the very sensitive nature of certain documents, it is necessary and essential to bear in mind that they must be handled in a special and responsible manner in all circumstances.
in writing. − following the erika oil tanker accident and the significant oil pollution caused by it, the commission proposed a regulation at the end of 2000 establishing the european maritime safety agency (emsa) as a body of expertise to guarantee a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution from ships in the eu. regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 was adopted by the european parliament and the council on 27 june 2002. the regulation entered into force in august of the same year and emsa started its activities in march 2003. in accordance with article 22 of that regulation, the management board provided in 2007 for an independent external evaluation of the implementation of that regulation. on the basis of this evaluation, it issued recommendations in june 2008 for changes to the regulation as well as to the agency and its working procedures. some provisions need to be clarified and updated, and emsa should also be given a range of additional tasks reflecting the evolution of maritime safety policy at eu and international level. oil and gas exploration and production activities at sea pose risks to maritime transport and the marine environment. for this reason too, it is important that the agency, within its capabilities, makes the necessary efforts related to the endeavour to minimise such risks.
in writing. − according to un estimates, more than 4 000 people, including more than 300 children, have been killed, many more injured, more than 14 000 reportedly detained and tens of thousands have sought refuge in neighbouring countries or have been internally displaced since march 2011. this is the intolerable situation in syria as a result of the brutal repression of the population by the ruling regime, despite the fact that such actions have been unequivocally condemned at the international level. however, the violent crackdown and gross human rights violations by the syrian authorities and military and security forces against civilians unfortunately continue and are intensifying. the reforms and amnesties announced and promised by president bashar al-assad have not yet been implemented and the regime has lost all credibility as a result. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the application of this regulation and on the application of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis thereof, including the rules on the application of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted on the basis of the delegated and implementing acts adopted. it is essential that the syrian authorities and military and security forces immediately cease all acts of violence, torture, persecution and repression against the civilian population and immediately release all arbitrarily detained political prisoners. it is essential to pursue a prompt, independent and transparent investigation to ensure that all those responsible for these crimes against humanity are apprehended and held accountable.
in writing. − the main objective of the newly created surveillance mechanism is to prevent and correct macroeconomic imbalances in the european union. under regulation (eu) no 1176/2011, the other objectives of the new mechanism include the sustained convergence of the economic performance of the member states and closer coordination of economic policies. in the current economic situation, it is essential that the macroeconomic surveillance framework is established and operational as soon as possible. member state governments must be prepared to act on any problems that may arise, as this is the only way to ensure that the supervisory framework has the desired effect. in the context of the compilation of future macroeconomic tables (which may contain a wide range of indicators), these indicators must be based on independent and verifiable official statistical data from the european statistical system and the european system of central banks. i believe that the transparent implementation of this new policy instrument is of great importance and that it is therefore necessary for the commission to ensure that all documents or working papers relating to the scoreboard are delivered to parliament and the council on an equivalent basis.
in writing. − transport is a key element for the european economy and society. it is crucial for the internal market, for the living standards of citizens, enabling them to travel freely, and also contributes to economic growth and job creation. however, it must be sustainable in the light of the new challenges facing society. however, given its global nature, the effectiveness of individual actions requires strong international cooperation. the future prosperity of the european continent will depend on the ability of all its regions to maintain full and competitive integration into the world economy. and efficient transport plays a very important role in achieving this goal. obstacles to the smooth functioning of effective competition in the internal market remain. the objective of the next decades should therefore be to create a genuine single european transport area by removing all remaining barriers between the different modes of transport and national systems. i believe that the appropriate way to achieve this objective is also to simplify the integration process and to encourage the emergence of multinational and multimodal operators.
in writing. − the european union has set itself the task of building an area of freedom, security and justice and, in accordance with article 6 of the treaty on european union, it respects human rights and fundamental freedoms and thus assumes the obligations it must fulfil in order to fulfil this commitment. the conditions of detention and the management of detention facilities are primarily the responsibility of the member states. deficiencies such as prison overcrowding and alleged ill-treatment of detainees can undermine the trust that must underpin judicial cooperation in criminal matters, based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and other judicial decisions of eu member states. respect for fundamental rights standards and the necessary convergence of the rights of suspects and accused persons and procedural rights in criminal proceedings are key to ensuring mutual trust between member states in the area of freedom, security and justice. conditions of detention are of particular importance for the application of the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in the area of freedom, security and justice. at the same time, however, i consider it equally important that member states allocate adequate resources to restructuring and modernising prison facilities, to protecting the rights of detainees, or to their successful rehabilitation and preparation for release and reintegration into society.
in writing. − partnership and cooperation agreements were concluded with the countries of the former soviet union in the late 1990s. as the eu had a bilateral agreement with uzbekistan, it decided to include article 16 in the partnership and cooperation agreement, thus clearly excluding textiles from that agreement. as regards the other sectors, the partnership and cooperation agreement provided for a mutual provision of a 'most favoured nation' clause. from an economic point of view, however, this agreement should not be overestimated. uzbekistan is the world's fifth largest producer of cotton and is the world's third largest exporter of cotton. the political and economic system in uzbekistan is controlled by the state. although cotton is produced on private farms, the harvest must be handed over to state-owned companies at a price set by the state. in addition, during the cotton harvest, government employees mobilize children as a cheap source of labor, sending them to cotton plantations, and schools are closed during the harvest. many international organizations have expressed concern over the use of forced child labor in uzbekistan over the years. i believe it is essential to insist that the government of uzbekistan fully implement the official prohibition of this practice in uzbek legislation and international conventions. reforms are needed to modernise and motorise the agricultural sector, which would help to eliminate forced child labour.
in writing. - my colleagues. the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement has been the cornerstone of bilateral relations since its entry into force in 1999. the main issue on the table at present is the deepening of cooperation, particularly in the context of textile trade. uzbekistan is the third largest exporter of cotton in the world. it is in the cotton harvest that we encounter our greatest obstacle. the issue of forced child labour in cotton harvesting is a topic that is still unresolved. uzbekistan has made significant progress in combating this problem in recent years, and these changes and reforms have been noted and appreciated by unicef observers, but it is still not enough. one of the last things uzbekistan needs to do is allow monitoring by observers from the international labour organization, ilo. i have personally visited uzbekistan several times and i have seen that the country is willing to cooperate in this area as well and is interested in the complete elimination of forced child labour. i therefore call on our uzbek partners to allow access for ilo staff so that we can finally move forward. i firmly believe that together we can find a way to reach an agreement.
in writing. − the right to live and work in another eu country is one of the eu's fundamental freedoms, guaranteeing equal treatment and protection against discrimination on grounds of nationality, an essential element of citizenship of the union recognised in the treaties. however, two member states face obstacles to the right to work in the territory of another member state. the free movement of workers thus represents a positive socioeconomic example for the eu and its member states, a milestone in the process of eu integration, economic development and a counterweight to the negative effects of the economic crisis, contributing to the creation of a stronger economic power ready to face the challenges of global change. member states which have not applied transitional measures in relation to the free movement of workers from member states which acceded to the eu in 2004 and 2007 do not have any negative consequences. however, many member states have chosen to continue to apply restrictions on their labour markets (as regards nationals of romania and bulgaria) which result from political pressures rather than from justified negative effects on the economy and the labour market. i believe that the restrictive transitional periods should be abolished so that bulgarian and romanian citizens can enjoy the right to equal treatment enshrined in the treaties, thus ensuring fair competition between businesses and avoiding social and economic dumping.
in writing. − central asia is of strategic importance to europe, a well-known but often underestimated one. in implementing the strategy, the eu launched important initiatives and programmes over the past four years to support priorities such as good governance, the rule of law, human rights and democratisation, education and training, economic development, trade and investment, transport and energy, environmental sustainability and water management, and tackling common threats and challenges. since 2007, however, the world has undergone significant changes. important (but tragic) events have taken place in central asia, and new political influences have emerged in the region. all this is prompting the european institutions to rethink their policy towards central asia, to assess what has already been achieved and to propose new approaches to adapt their activities to a region facing many threats that may also have an impact on europe. in this context, the eu should revise its approach to central asia in an appropriate manner, as it has done with its nearest neighbour. for it cannot care about ethics in one part of the world and not react to violations of its values in another part of the world. this is how her credibility is compromised. however, human rights and the rule of law must be promoted above all in all european activities and initiatives.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i consider the relations between the european union and central asia to be of paramount importance. the countries belonging to this region have had a really turbulent history, during the cold war they were part of the soviet union and after gaining independence they have been and are still undergoing a difficult test of the sustainability of democracy. strong authoritarian regimes, such as the government of president niyazov in turkmenistan, or the recent violent unrest in kyrgyzstan that led to a coup d'état, are just some examples of the complicated situation in central asia. mrs kiil-nielsen says in her report that we need to approach talks and negotiations with the countries of central asia with the same emphasis and rigor as we approach our immediate neighbours. now, i don't want to suggest that we should be more lenient on human rights in the case of central asians or that we should forgive them something that we wouldn't forgive other partners. however, i would point out that in approaching these countries we should take into account the different culture, the political behaviour of their citizens and the different stages of democratic transition.
in writing. − health and safety at work is currently one of the most important and developed aspects of eu employment and social affairs policy. the adoption and practical application of a wide range of union legislation over the last decades has made it possible to improve working conditions in the eu member states and to make great progress in reducing work-related accidents and diseases. health and safety at work, for economic as well as for human reasons, deserve a great deal of attention in the eu's political agenda, as they play an important role in enhancing the competitiveness and productivity of enterprises and in contributing to the viability of social security systems. they result in reduced costs for accidents, injuries and illnesses and in greater motivation of workers. the burden of occupational accidents and diseases on public and private social security systems is enormous and requires an integrated, coordinated and strategic approach as well as cooperation between the main stakeholders in the eu. i believe that it is desirable in the future to focus on the promotion and use of risk reduction technologies that constitute dangerous substances in the event of occupational accidents in the framework of future legislation on safety and health. it would also be appropriate to consider that these technologies replace the use of chemical and radioactive substances where appropriate.
in writing. − to protect the rights of our workers and to address their current problems, the eu strategy on safety and health at work must keep pace with the technological and demographic changes of recent years. the reduction of the rate of accidents and diseases at work should be one of the key objectives of the strategy. i consider the protection of workers in high-risk categories to be particularly important. this includes workers in hazardous sectors such as construction and chemical workers, as well as people with disabilities, young workers and women. stress at work and the psychological pressure of deadlines are also very significant negative factors today. this is primarily due to poor work organisation and management style. i fully agree with the view that we must ensure that the austerity measures brought about by the economic crisis do not in any way compromise safety at work. it is important that the standards are uniform across the member states. unfortunately, this has not been the case in recent years, but i am confident that harmonization in this area will be successful.
azerbaijan is a friendly country of the european union and is making efforts to progressively democratise its political environment. however, islamic influence is quite intense in neighboring azerbaijan due to the radical iranian regime. the murder of rafik tagi, probably carried out on the basis of a fatwa by an iranian cleric, is evidence of this. the european union must be more active in its efforts to win over the azerbaijani people to a civilized democratic way of life. therefore, it is appropriate to express some concern to the azerbaijani government over the superficial conduct of the investigation into the murder of rafik tagi. we must work to ensure that the regime in azerbaijan actually cooperates with the european union in building a democratic system.
for the efd group. the status of women in islamic countries is complicated by persistent religious customs and traditions. especially in the more remote regions and areas controlled by radical religious political groups, brutal medieval customs continue to be used. the european union's efforts to change the mindset of the people of these countries towards a more humane and cultured coexistence are therefore of paramount importance. the union's activities in support of shelters for women who need to protect themselves from domestic violence or humiliation in the family, but also in public, are of paramount importance. but in addition to providing real humanitarian assistance to women and girls on the ground, we must also put continuous pressure on state authorities to use all their influence in society to suppress these brutal practices against women and girls. the state authorities must be the bearers of civilized and humane coexistence of society and decisively fight against the monstrosity of the customs of the past.
in writing. the eu's cooperation agreement with pakistan states in article 1 that: 'respect for human rights and democratic principles, as set out in the universal declaration of human rights (...), constitutes an essential element of this agreement.' i therefore supported the joint resolution tabled in which parliament asks the commission and, in particular, european diplomacy to submit a detailed report on how pakistan is complying with its commitment. it is clear that human rights violations, especially of women and christians, are commonplace in pakistan. however, it is not entirely clear what the commission, which is equally bound by the existing agreement, is doing and could do. diplomacy knows the mechanisms that can be used in such cases. it is up to us to prove that human rights are important to europeans not only on paper but also in real life.
for the efd group. the tunisian people, as one of the leaders of the arab spring, were able to overthrow the bin ali regime and fight for their right to a better life. but the people in the police or the judiciary, who are doing their jobs as they were taught under the previous regime, have not changed with the regime's departure. the incident at tunis-carthage airport, where zakaria boughira was detained, is clear evidence of this. building a new, hopefully decent and better society in tunisia will surely take some time. the new administration will have to rebuild and re-train its law enforcement and judicial bodies so that they are no longer seen by the tunisian population as repressive elements brutally suppressing freedom, but as state elements protecting their peaceful life. in addition to the justified criticism of such failures, as demonstrated by the tunisian police in november in their crackdown on moroccan fans, we could also help the new state by helping train police officers to prevent such crackdowns in the future.
