the reporter. − the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and serbia was signed in april 2008 and the transitional interim trade agreement has been successfully implemented since february 2010. the ratification process started in september 2008, when the serbian parliament first ratified this agreement. the agreement provides a political, legal and economic framework for cooperation between the european union and serbia, and without the initiation of the ratification process, it would not have been possible to continue serbia's european integration. in 2009, the report on serbia was not on the european parliament's agenda because the ratification process in the member states was blocked by insufficient cooperation with the hague tribunal. to date, 11 member states have ratified this agreement, and i therefore call on the remaining member states to do so as soon as possible. with today's ratification in this assembly, we will send a strong and visible message of support for serbia's european efforts. but this does not in itself guarantee the completion of the ratification process. the resolution on serbia, which we will be voting on tomorrow, carries this very message of support. serbia needs to be supported on its long and difficult path towards membership of the european union. as a country that has long been isolated and outside the modern currents of european politics and economics, serbia faces many challenges. in the last two years, we have witnessed the europeanisation of the political scene in serbia. the best proof of a sincere commitment to european values and the european way of life will be offered by serbian leaders in successfully tackling the problems and implementing all the reforms that are necessary. there have been some positive developments. serbia's willingness to compromise and adopt a joint resolution on kosovo at the un general assembly in september 2010 is clearly welcomed by us. on the first day of this year, compulsory military service was abolished and generations of young serbian citizens were given additional opportunities to learn, study and develop. the civilian control of the armed forces has been strengthened. on the other hand, serbia's progress towards the union is seriously hampered by the fact that two accused of war crimes before the hague tribunal are still at large. more than 15 years after the srebrenica genocide, the worst crime on european soil since world war ii, ratko mladić remains on the run. we welcome the statements by the leaders in belgrade that ending cooperation with the hague is a priority for the government. we also call on the authorities, as the chief prosecutor of the hague says, to convincingly close the gap between the political will shown and the concrete results. it is time for serbia to close this painful chapter and take a new step towards reconciliation in the region. serbia cannot be granted candidate status until it demonstrates that it fully cooperates with the hague, as stated in the council conclusions of 25 october 2010. the most convincing evidence of this would be the arrest and extradition of the accused. the current level of cooperation efforts is not producing results and is not yet sufficient. significant shifts in regional relations have been achieved in the western balkans, most notably in relations between serbia and croatia. we welcome the state-building attitude of the president of serbia, who has given a strong impetus to lasting reconciliation in the region with his new approach. however, there are other challenges. belgrade must demonstrate a constructive relationship in close dialogue with pristina and, regardless of the status of kosovo, belgrade-pristina relations must become partnership-based in order to facilitate the whole region's progress towards europe. this also applies to serbia's relations with bosnia and herzegovina. belgrade must support reforms that will prepare bosnia and herzegovina as a state with institutions for negotiations on membership of the european union. because at this point, that's not the case.
the report by my colleague, mr jelko kacin, is equally real and encouraging. the full integration of serbia into the european union is in the interest of stability and security in europe, and is therefore also an important step towards the elimination of the grey area in south-eastern europe. i support serbia and its strategic objectives, as informed by mr vice-president đelić. the keys are in the hands of serbia, which must meet the conditions. maybe this is also an opportunity to tell the serbian public that mladić is not the pride, but the shame of the serbian nation. i would also like to stress that i welcome all the steps taken by the serbian government and the serbian public to build a good neighbourhood, while stressing that the border issue is one of the key issues when it comes to neighbourly relations.
today, once again, serbia, a democratic and european country, has shown that it has many allies in the european union. the fact is that only a democratic and pro-european serbia has been able to make up for the 20-year delay in the development of democracy, the economy and the quality of life of its citizens. the democratic government of serbia and president tadic deserve our support. serbia is the key to stability in the balkans. here modern european serbia has a great responsibility. the european union is committed to the peace process, and to the peace process itself. both these objectives are the objectives of the current government in serbia, and let us work with and support it in these objectives.
member of the commission. − madam president, i wish to thank the honourable members for this rich debate, which has shown the house’s constructive support of the process of the european union integration of serbia. the support provided by parliament to the ratification process of the saa is an important signal for serbia, and will contribute to intensifying its efforts on the path towards the european union. let me address briefly some questions which were raised during the debate. to mr belder firstly, on the sandžak, i would rather talk about a politicisation of the issue of muslim representation than a surge of radical islamism. in that context we look forward to the next elections to the bosniak national council in april this year, which should be peaceful and inclusive and will help foster dialogue and avoid radicalisation. on the question of the development fund, we are in close dialogue with serbia and other countries in the western balkan region concerning how to make the best use of the ipa and how to make it even more effective. reflection is ongoing regarding the support for technological development. concerning the question by mrs morvai, let me say that we pay particular attention to human rights and also to the protection of minority rights. i will write to her addressing one concrete case she referred to in her intervention. i am personally very encouraged by serbia’s serious and constructive approach to the current stage of the enlargement process. where we talked yesterday about concerns, we are talking today about serbia being on the right track in addressing, for example, the important issue of judicial reform. this is a good basis for serbia to fully use the integration potential that the year 2011 offers.
the president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, deputy prime minister, distinguished members of the house, ladies and gentlemen! thank you so much for this excellent debate. a great report has received excellent comments, and the fact that many of the issues raised here are also found in the report itself, i think, is proof of how great the report is, so i think it was a great platform for discussion. they all confirmed that this is not a closed process, but rather a beginning. after this beginning, i think all the issues that you have raised in the debate will be raised. there's been a lot of progress, which is why we're keeping the process where we are and there's a lot more to do. you have mentioned many issues here, such as the deepening of democracy, refugees, the business environment, visa-free travel, the situation of minorities. we have heard that there is a lot of progress in serbia in the area of minority policy, as mr tabajdi has mentioned, but the copenhagen criteria still apply as the commission has also mentioned. it's an important compass for us, and in every move we make, in every evaluation we make, we're going to be mindful of it. it was also stated that the situation is fragile. i fully agree with this, and it is therefore particularly important that we encourage serbia to continue along this path. mr brok and mr swoboda have alluded to this. what i feel is most important is that, and this was also mentioned by mrs nicolai, that serbia has made this decision of its own free will, that it is committed to the european union, committed to membership, and we will help this process in every way possible. the fact that they have chosen this path of their own free will, i take it as a guarantee that serbia will take all the necessary steps. i am very confident, madam president, that after this mature debate parliament will give its consent to the stability and association agreement.
the reporter. - today's rich debate is the best illustration of the lively interest and support serbia enjoys here in the european parliament and in the other european institutions. despite the challenges inherited from the wars of the 1990s, serbia is primarily in the process of laying the foundations for the rule of law. the reform of the judiciary, which started in 2009, is incomplete in many respects and requires systematic corrections. the key copenhagen criterion is the rule of law, and serbia must ensure the independence, competence and efficiency of the judiciary in order to ensure legal security and economic development. we welcome the latest reactions from belgrade to understand all these challenges. restitution, restitution of confiscated property, protection of private property, is one of those elements. i look forward to the arrival of the president of the national assembly of serbia, who will be visiting us in the european parliament later this month. we must strengthen the role and responsibility of the serbian parliament and all parliamentarians. the serbian opposition must also be better involved and must take more responsibility for the success of serbia's integration process. the handover of the european commission's questionnaire responses to commissioner füle by prime minister cvetković this month will be a historic step for the state of serbia and for all its citizens. i believe this move will be convincing and successful. i therefore wish the hungarian presidency every success in promoting pro-european forces in serbia. i know that the government's european affairs department, headed by milica delevic, is doing a great job, so it won't be difficult to cooperate. the presence of the deputy prime minister and minister of science, boje djelic, here today is also proof of the government's keen interest in our work and in serbia's future in the european union. and then finally, this thought. less than three years ago, serbia was on the verge of self-isolation. today that danger is over and serbia is firmly on the path to the european union. but the pace at which she progresses is entirely up to her. this resolution encourages serbia on its historic path, making it clear that we appreciate its successes and highlight all the challenges it faces.
president of the commission. − that is a very difficult question, because all priorities are linked, so we need to complete the energy market – we need an integrated energy market. this is also a way to have renewables and energy efficiency. energy efficiency is certainly a priority, but we also need to invest in low-carbon technologies, because there is also an external dimension and we need to pursue our external ambitions – to speak, as far as is possible, in unison with our partners in the energy field. there are four priorities which i would like the european council to address on 4 february: completion of the energy market and implementation of all the rules of the internal market; energy efficiency; low carbon technologies; and accepting joint efforts where the external dimension is concerned.
the european union now has to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020. at the political level, however, we are also talking about a more ambitious target and it is known that in this case the sectors within the ets, in particular the energy sector, would bear the greatest burden. so i'm interested in your opinion, your personal opinion, on when the conditions will be right to make this goal even more ambitious. what additional measures should the european union introduce in the field of energy, and do these include the conditions you mentioned in your answer to my colleague's question?
i would like to say a few words of encouragement and support to the hungarian presidency, as a country which is our good neighbour, with whom we have much in common, and i can support the main priorities you, mr prime minister, have outlined for your presidency today. you, hungary, can contribute a great deal to further strengthening the stability of the region in which we all live together and, in particular, to the region's full return to modern values and its future. so i'm going to tell you something that you may not like to hear: i think it would be right to put the story of trianon back in history and not make it a reason to upset the neighbors and open up some old wounds. everyone has to live with their history.
madam president, in view of the importance of human rights, i would like to have a roll-call vote on amendment 8. it addresses the surprising and unfortunate decision by the serbian government not to attend the nobel peace prize award ceremony in oslo. at the same time, the amendment praises the serbian ombudsman’s decision to attend the ceremony on behalf of the serbian people. it is a message to serbia and all future candidate states that bargaining with human rights is not acceptable. in order to have broader support for this amendment, i also want to submit a very short oral – basically compromise – amendment, originally prepared by mrs maria eleni koppa. i want to add the word ‘initial’ between ‘the government’s’ and ‘decision’, so the wording will be ‘regrets the government’s initial decision not to attend the nobel peace prize award ceremony in oslo on 10 december; welcomes on the other hand the ombudsman’s initiative to attend the ceremony as a responsible and praiseworthy decision’. i urge all my colleagues to support this amendment.
on behalf of the alde group. the report prepared by mr ungureanu, in an engaged and cooperative manner, for which i thank him, brings our attention back to a region characterised by its diversity. the diversity of political systems, cultural traditions, religions, status and ambitions in terms of convergence with the european union, the level of economic development, the availability of natural resources and, of course, the new situation that has emerged with the fact that today we have three member states of the european union in the region we are talking about. the black sea region is of particular interest to us because of its geostrategic position, which directly represents either added value or serious risks to our security interests. in this context, i would like to mention in particular energy security and the sustainable supply of energy, infrastructure and the possibility of influencing the resolution of conflicts and open issues in the region, as well as the development of partnership with russia and turkey. all this can be achieved by deepening the engagement of the countries in the region and the cooperation of all the countries of the european union and the other organisations and networks we have in this field, including networks of civil society organisations, to which we pay special attention and recognition. we do not need new institutions for all this, but we will need to ensure regular funding and greater political engagement. commissioner, i believe you will find this report useful and i look forward to working with you.
in the energy field, we have set targets covering all three pillars of the common energy policy: competitiveness, the environment and sustainability. two large packages have already been adopted to achieve these objectives: one is the climate and energy package and the other is the liberalisation package. i therefore believe that we do not need new legislation in the energy sector at the moment, but that we need to focus more on implementing existing legislation. what helps us to put even more stringent requirements on paper and to make even more demands if we fail to carry out the ones we already have? we need to improve the credibility of the union, and i do not think we need any new requirements for improving energy efficiency. businesses and households must make decisions in the light of market conditions. efficiency improvements have been considered the most cost-effective measure so far, a so-called win-win situation, and i really do not see the need for new binding targets. we also need to create an environment that encourages investment in infrastructure. the market must work, not public funds from the european and national budgets. we must avoid state subsidies and non-market mechanisms that lead to the centralisation of the economy and inhibit competitiveness and stifle creativity. energy is included in the ets and the carbon price must be the main driver of development. in the energy sector, we also need better cross-border coordination and strategic planning of new infrastructure, and the acer energy agency, which will start operations in ljubljana in march, needs all the support it can get to carry out its tasks effectively.
at the end of this revolution, which is taking place in the streets of cairo, the people will choose the political system and the leaders. there will probably be some who will recognize mubarak for the positive role he has played in maintaining some relative stability in the middle east. but i'm less interested in that right now. the events in tunisia and egypt demonstrate the marginal role played by the european union in the mediterranean and in all areas of our neighbourhood policy. we need a reform of the neighbourhood policy, we need a strategy that will give impetus to the resolution of the open problems, from belarus, ossetia, abkhazia, upper karabakh, transnistria, cyprus, palestine, western sahara. we need a strategy for the countries of the former soviet union in central asia and the caucasus. they too will be caught up in the wind of democratization, and it doesn't take a prophet to predict that. there's a lot of work for you to do here, mrs. ashton, so be ambitious, and we'll support you.
a lot of the money that financial instruments give us, and that goes to developing countries, ends up, through some channels, back in the hands of corporations, monopolies at home. i think that an essential part of the financial-policy instrument must be to ensure that the funds are used in accordance with the development plans of those we want to support. several speakers have already pointed out that we often finance regimes that are anything but democratic. i think that when we finance the development of the poorest, we should also be careful not to perpetuate a monocultural orientation, but to open up possibilities for the modern development of these countries.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would first like to ask you to excuse maroš šefčovič and günther oettinger, who are busy with other commitments and have asked me to represent them. on their behalf i would like to thank your rapporteur, mr belet, for pointing out the important aspects of the need to strengthen health protection measures in relation to radioactive contamination of food and feed. i would also like to point out that the commission's proposal for a recast of council regulation no 3954/87 contains only one provision which is subject to revision. this is a recital in the preamble added to justify an existing provision in the regulation, namely the reservation of implementing powers by the council. all the other provisions, ladies and gentlemen, are being codified and have therefore remained unchanged in the proposal. the commission is therefore not in a position to accept, and i say this quite sincerely, the amendments tabled in the belet report. there are two reasons for this: one is institutional, the other substantive. the first reason is strict compliance with the agreement on the use of the recasting procedure concluded between parliament, the commission and the council. in view of this interinstitutional agreement and the very logic of the recast, the codified parts of a recast proposal cannot be amended except in very exceptional circumstances. the aim is to provide a tool to ensure, inter alia, consistency where amendments are necessary. the strict observance of this agreed discipline is an important condition for guaranteeing interinstitutional balance and the commission's right of initiative. failure by an institution to comply with the interinstitutional agreement would have the effect of rendering the use of this legislative technique de facto impracticable and depriving the institutions of an important tool for the 'better lawmaking' objective which was set up with the aim of increasing transparency for the benefit of citizens. the second reason is substance. the first amendment voted by the itre committee concerns the legal basis. article 31 of the euratom treaty would be replaced by article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. most of the other amendments relate to this change in the legal basis. the commission considers that this amendment to the legal basis is not justified. it would even be contrary to the principle contained in article 106a of the euratom treaty, according to which, where the treaty contains specific provisions governing a particular subject, it takes precedence over the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. as you know, the validity of article 31 of the euratom treaty was confirmed by the court in its judgment in case c-70/88. the euratom treaty also regulates matters relating to the protection of the general public and workers against the dangers arising from ionizing radiation in chapter 3 and, more particularly, in articles 31 and 32. finally, i should like to recall the constant case law of the court of justice which states, and i quote: 'the rules for the formation of the will of the community institutions are laid down by the treaty and are not at the disposal of either the member states or the institutions themselves'. article 31 of the euratom treaty is the only objectively justifiable legal basis for this proposal. these are the legal limits, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and it is on the basis of these legal limits that the commission has concluded that it wishes to reject the amendments to mr belet's report. that is what i wanted to say on behalf of mr šefčovič and mr oettinger.
on behalf of the ppe group. radioactivity is a somewhat mysterious subject, one to which people are generally reserved. but above all, they fear it because radioactive radiation is invisible and unfeeling, and it can cause great harm to living things. but it also has many positive properties, and that's why it's used in medicine as well as in research, in materials research, for sterilization, for electricity generation. to harness these positive effects, we must of course respond appropriately to people's fears, we must ensure their safety. this was done very well by our rapporteur, mr belet, when he prepared amendments to the regulation dealing with the contamination of food and feed in the event of nuclear accidents. i congratulate him on what he has done and i sincerely hope that the commission will change its mind and take more account of what our rapporteur has presented. i hope that the council will take more seriously what parliament has prepared, although i am very sad and concerned that the council representative is no longer with us. i wonder if this shows ignorance of the european parliament's opinion on nuclear matters. i think that the council and the european commission will have to accept the democratic developments which have taken place since the adoption of the euratom treaty, that is to say, since 1958, and take more account of what we adopt in the nuclear field in the european parliament. otherwise, we may have to open a pandora's box, the euratom treaty.
i would like to join my colleagues in suggesting that policy, the member states and the european union should put smes first when taking action to revive the economy. these categories account for 99% of all businesses in the european union and create over 100 million jobs. and what is the problem with modern small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union? let's not forget that on today's topic. first, such businesses are plagued by non-payment of invoices, a payment indiscipline. companies do not get their bills paid after 90, 120 days or never. the financial and economic crisis has exacerbated this problem, and smes are the most vulnerable to these problems. we in the european union have adopted a new regulation. and now it's time for countries to improve their discipline, their payment discipline. it all starts there and then goes down the pyramid. secondly, these companies, small and medium-sized, are plagued by a problem of financing. a lot of people wouldn't have a problem with financing if they could get their bills paid. the banks have closed themselves in their shells and are not doing their job. so our economic growth in the european union is much lower than it could be. i support the commission's actions, as advocated by commissioner tajani, and i call on it to think in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises when taking action. now is the time to implement the recommendations of the small business act together.
commissioner, i very much appreciate your attention to our question. and what we're doing together, i think, is getting closer, or closer, to the citizens. i was a reporter for the approval of hydrogen engines, and i think we need at least as much attention with regard to stem cells from cord blood. you yourself mentioned the positive impact of this fact, which is not only of concern to those who are sick, or to parents, but also to researchers who are finding more and more applications. i think it is very important that you said that the european commission is encouraging the member states to take action in this regard. and it seems that what we mostly see as waste today may become a source of health for us or for someone else. and in that sense, i think we need a strategy, we need to know what we're encouraging, what we're informing parents and others about, and of course, what we're researching. i believe we have a great opportunity here to prove to the people that we are on their side and that we are supporting the right cause.
we are witnessing a new humanitarian tragedy on the doorstep of the european union. today, lampedusa is facing an even greater influx of immigrants from north african countries elsewhere. it is said that about 600 immigrants flee egypt for israel each month. the authorities are losing control of the situation. we need a quick and coordinated response. the answer cannot be closing the doors, and the answer cannot be equating immigrants with criminals. it would be a shame if in a europe where freedom of movement is a fundamental right and a symbol of equality and freedom, anyone thought that way. members must share the responsibility and share the burden that has fallen on italy today. we must mobilize forces and resources. human lives are at stake. the response to recent events in tunisia and egypt has been uneven and slow. let's prove our credibility now and not succumb to the rhetoric of the far-right and xenophobic parties against immigrants. italy needs concrete help today, and tomorrow it will be needed by another country. we need a quick response now.
on behalf of the alde group. today, we are discussing for the last time the progress report on croatia as a candidate for full membership of the european union. i would like to thank my colleague, hannes swoboda, as rapporteur, a job he has done for many years, for his constructive and friendly approach, both in the circle of shadow rapporteurs and in relation to the croatian government and, i would say, the croatian people. perhaps in retrospect, and in view of the circumstances in which croatia became an independent state 20 years ago, its waiting for membership was enough and too much. mr. minister martonyi, you have, very specifically informed us of your plans in relation to the croatian accession negotiations. we support your plans and hope that they will be fully realized. in the months before croatia concludes the negotiations, they will have much to do in zagreb. chapter 23 has been the subject of special attention for us liberals. we also discussed this yesterday in a friendly conversation between president verhofstadt and mrs kosorova, and we agreed on this. in this chapter is the key to the rule of law, to a serious examination of the past, to an efficient and impartial judiciary, to legal security and equality for all citizens. a democratic state governed by the rule of law - a member of the european union - must guarantee freedoms such as the openness and independence of the media, the protection of minorities, gender equality and the safety of all those who are different. the croatian government and its president, jadranka kosor, deserve recognition for their decisive action against corruption and crime. croatia should also be recognised for its success in establishing friendly relations with its neighbours, while at the same time being encouraged to address outstanding issues. in giving the green light to croatia for the final round of negotiations and the final efforts towards full membership, it should be stressed that this is a message to all the countries of south-east europe, which share the same expectations. we too have them, so that europe can complete the enlargement process and become a continent of cohesion and common values. just one more sentence. only in this way can the european union become and play the role of one of the world leaders in today's world. thank you very much for your patience, mr. president.
allow me to join in praising the approach and work of our rapporteur, mr swobode. i would like to assure the republic of croatia and my colleagues in the swoboda group that this is indeed the final report and that croatia will join us as soon as possible. in any case, croatia will compensate for its delay in joining the eu somehow by becoming a member. croatia, by its level of economic, social, cultural and artistic development, could easily be included in the group of countries that joined the european union seven years ago. i suggest to the authorities in zagreb that they use their accession to the european union to deal decisively with the culture of corruption and crime. the development of freedom of critical media and the protection of critical journalists on croatian public television is also of paramount importance. croatia's accession to the eu is our embrace and extended hand to the balkan region. i look forward to working with our croatian colleagues to stabilise and develop this still troubled region.
i wish the government and the european commission a lot of determination, patience, perseverance and energy to complete the reforms and perhaps mark the 20th anniversary of croatian independence by the end of the negotiations. that is my sincere wish. what will be possible depends on the government and the cooperation between the government or coalition and the opposition in the parliament. much greater social sensitivity and policy responsiveness are also needed now. the current economic crisis is pushing the benefits of eu membership for the economy and citizens to the margins of public priorities and increasing criticism of the european union. after all, the referendum must be won. any delays in the dynamics would not have had catastrophic consequences for croatia. and for the western balkan countries on their way to the eu, that would be a very, very bad message. without the conclusion of the negotiations, there will be no fellow observers and no membership. so i urge you to keep up the pace, keep trying.
i welcome the fact that the hungarian government will amend the controversial parts of the media law, and that you, commissioner kroesova, are satisfied with the changes announced. but i am very concerned that we have to rely in parliament on very lax messages the day before the planned adoption of the resolution on the media law, that we have no detailed assurances from the hungarian authorities as to what the actual changes will be. so i'm curious to know how you were able to arrive at these conclusions in a matter of hours, and whether outside experts were involved in the findings. the speed of the changes announced also suggests that they are not substantive but cosmetic, which is not acceptable. why is it that today, when the debate is on the agenda, we learn that the government will change the law in two weeks and that the commission is satisfied. it seems that someone is seriously trying to silence the european parliament's concerns that the technical work announced by hungary does not lead to democratic changes in the law in line with the charter of fundamental rights. we, like the osce, are gravely concerned about the composition and competence of the media council, as it is an apparent strong expansion of state control over journalists. i welcome your willingness to dialogue. but i repeat, this is not an attack on hungary. i'm a former journalist - this is about protecting journalists all over europe. and i'm disappointed that the controversial law is not being addressed by commissioner reding, who is in charge of fundamental rights. and, commissioner, i would like to ask you something else: what is the european commission's vision for the future of journalism in europe? we need some minimum criteria in the union to guarantee freedom and independence of the media and media pluralism. i urge you to address this as soon as possible, as media freedom is already strongly established elsewhere in europe and the quality of media reporting is consequently also strongly established.
i too welcome the decision of the hungarian government to amend the media law, although i believe that this mass attack on it in terms of the media law was unjust and unfounded. the law was created in specific circumstances that are not always well understood in western europe. in all the transition countries, the media landscape was very asymmetrical, unbalanced in terms of ownership and political bias. it was ruled by the left. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measure is selective. the concept of balance has been used in scientific and political discourse for a long time and was originally tied to the media. the complaint about the political bias of the composition of the media council after this law was also completely incorrect. under this law, members are elected by a two-thirds majority in parliament, and the vast majority of european countries do not have such a democratic mechanism. in short, commissioner, we will take you at your word to take even greater care to keep the media landscape in the european union in order. you will be able to do this not only by reviewing the legislation of the member states, but also by analysing the actual situation in greater depth, particularly in the new member states, including my own slovenia.
madam president, mr commissioner, i too would like to begin by congratulating mr fernandez on his excellent report. however, i would like to agree with my colleagues who say that we need to save, especially budgetary savings. the fact that the european budget has been falling behind for decades. its volume is constantly decreasing in relation to the gross domestic product that we generate within the european union. the commissioner has recently said that at the beginning of the financial perspective we had about 1.3% of gross domestic product in europe. today, it's only 1 1 2. at the same time, european budgets have increased considerably during this period. over the last ten years, for example, the relatively modest uk budget has increased by 100%, i.e. two and a half times the european budget. and i am curious, and i am asking the commissioner in particular, whether this real reduction in the european budget compared to other european member states will cause him any difficulties in implementing the next budget in 2012.
the vienna philharmonic, arguably the finest classical orchestra in the world, only a few years ago allowed women to sit down and play with them. imagine what our orchestra here would look like and sound like, our parliament, if it weren't for the colleagues who bring it to life with their temperament and their qualified debates. it's clear that we need a day like today, which reminds us of the inequality of women, more than we need. women are not equal on payday, on the day that they share the duties, and on all the days that they have to take care of the children, the family. it is our responsibility in the european parliament and our colleagues in the national parliaments to ensure that equality is adequately guaranteed by legislation. but i think we'll also provide it with daily affection and attention to women.
president, commissioner, minister, the dramatic and profound political changes are a reminder that democratization is taking place in the arab world, and that we are becoming increasingly aware of our vulnerability and energy dependence. turkey is our precious, exemplary and convincing promoter of functioning democracy in the arab world and of course a promoter of a flourishing economy. the european union and turkey, both together, remain hostages to the unresolved cyprus issue. some important chapters for turkey are still blocked. today, it is necessary to stress the need to open the energy chapter as soon as possible and to tell our cypriot friends in nicosia firmly that the opening of this chapter is in our, cypriot and turkish interests. the blockade of this chapter is detrimental to cyprus, turkey and the european union as a whole, to the stability of the region and the world market. if we open this chapter again this year, we will demonstrate by our actions that we in the european union are operational, capable and efficient, that we see the challenges and pitfalls of the past and the future. if we don't get this unblocked, we're just going to be helpless and unsuccessful bystanders.
on behalf of the alde group. thank you to mr tannock for the report and for your good cooperation in its preparation. if we want to renew the principle of the enlargement process of the european union and to enable all the countries of our continent to develop as members of the union by adopting the resolution on montenegro, then we must ensure that the next steps are taken, first of all in montenegro, then in serbia, macedonia, bosnia and herzegovina and albania, and of course in turkey. for montenegro, this would mean that the granting of candidate status and the decision in principle to open negotiations would be followed by the actual opening of negotiations. in the meantime, the government of montenegro has a lot of work to do to harmonize the legal system, to train administrative capacity. the fight against corruption in all its various forms must continue and result in the conviction of those who participate in it. ensuring equality and respect for women is not a task that we would highlight only today. freedom of expression, independence of the media and protection of all minorities are among the values which the candidate country for membership of the european union must unconditionally respect. the young montenegrin democracy must ensure that ngos have a proper, visible place in society. commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to a wish i heard when i was hurrying to montenegro in talks with the politicians there. it is important that relations between montenegro and serbia develop without serbia attempting to influence the development of the neighbouring country through ethnic serb parties. such a school has already done much damage in the past of southeastern europe.
the honourable hungarian presidency, commissioner füle, would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr charles tannock, on the achievement of the resolution on montenegro which we are voting on tomorrow. montenegro is a great hope for the process of enlargement of the european union to the western balkans. it is a state and a society that has no objective problems that would prevent it from doing what is necessary to become a member of the european union. neighbouring bosnia and herzegovina and macedonia are not so fortunate. the seven key priorities of the european commission are clear and i suggest that the government of prime minister igor lukšić should pursue them decisively, thus opening negotiations for montenegro's full membership. in this, the government should rely on montenegrin civil society, critical intellectuals, ngos. critics are not the enemies of montenegro, critical media are not the enemies, they are the wealth of montenegro. the key, of course, is the fight against corruption and organized crime. let the montenegrin song be true: "montenegro is small, but it is honorable and honest".
my dear colleagues, the tragedy of iran is great. thirty years after the revolution against the shah's dictatorship, a simple question remains: does iran even belong to the ranks of civilized nations? the barbarity of the regime is manifested in a whole range of oppressions and anachronisms. it's about women, dissenters, anyone who thinks differently, young people, gays and so on and so forth. what can we do? on the one hand, we need a european union policy and sanctions that will hurt the regime's main representatives. we're cutting off their travels, cutting off their businesses, including the revolutionary guard. on the other hand, let us help the young and those who fight for human rights and democratic change. the key is to ensure free access to information, a free press, television, radio and, above all, the internet. facebook, twitter, youtube are the most powerful weapons of the humiliated and disgruntled that are so many in iran. our responsibility is to protect.
if we're serious about our climate goals, then nuclear power will remain part of our energy mix. so our conversations must not be ideological, but we need to answer a number of questions first. like, what was the root cause of the accident and how could it have been prevented? has the system of accountability, enforcement and control been weakened? was the safety culture at one of the power plants poor? what could be done to make the storage of spent nuclear fuel safer? was the regulator too weak to act in time? and so on and so forth. we need answers to these questions, and then we can act responsibly politically. and what does that mean? responsible political action? we need to reach a social consensus on acceptable technologies, including the role of nuclear power plants. we must ensure that the principle of safety comes first is applied. we need to create a legislative framework that will provide adequate financial and human resources for the safe operation of complex technologies. we must enable the development of an excellent and independent nuclear profession, its continuous education and the transfer of knowledge from the older to the younger generation. we need to assess the competence and independence of regulatory bodies, which play a key role in ensuring a safety culture, and ensure the safe disposal of high-level radioactive waste and spent fuel. and finally, let me talk about the common safety criteria. today we all agree that we really need them, but remember in 2009 when we were discussing the nuclear safety directive. the european parliament had already approved the common european criteria, which unfortunately the council did not. and that was the moment when the european parliament showed that it was doing the right thing. i therefore think it is high time that the european parliament was given more powers in the field of nuclear energy and that we should reach some kind of interinstitutional agreement to have the power of co-decision.
i would like to commend the excellent work of the rapporteur, sylvie guillaume. the european union urgently needs harmonised, fair and effective asylum procedures. this is also reflected in the current refugee crisis in the mediterranean. common rules are in the interest of both member states and applicants. ladies and gentlemen, the right to asylum is a fundamental principle of human rights. refugees should not be punished when they cross the border. our core mission is to help all applicants to ensure that they have basic human rights and high european and quality standards in the handling of their applications. unfortunately, fewer and fewer european countries seem to respect the right to asylum or to welcome newcomers with increasing fear and mistrust. what is happening today on the italian island of lampedusa is worrying. it creates a threatening and painful sense that refugees are not welcome in the european union. we must show solidarity with people fleeing from troubled areas, especially from libya, who need international protection. in view of developments in the arab states and north africa, we must prepare for the possibility of more refugees arriving in the union in the future. this is another reason why it is essential to improve and harmonise procedures. this will make life easier for us and for the refugee. we will relieve countries that currently have more friendly procedures for applicants and share the burden more fairly. europe must not become a fortress. asylum seekers must not become victims of the systems. i want a large majority to support the report on wednesday.
i would like to ask the commissioner a question about the fact that many european countries are trying to blame their fisheries problems on a country which does not exist in formal terms. the commission has been granted or extended a mandate to negotiate a fisheries agreement with morocco. please! what guarantees do we have that the funds we receive from this agreement will be used for the benefit of the people of western sahara and not just to meet the needs of european fishermen?
i agree with my colleagues who said that we should ensure nuclear safety at european level. but, ladies and gentlemen, we should bear in mind that safety culture is a very broad concept, which takes account of so many things, including both safe nuclear technology and the provision of adequate financial resources, human resources, adequate safety standards and strong and independent supervisory bodies. in my view, these european safety standards should also include all of this. this is not a matter of mistrust of the existing institutions, but of ensuring that the highest possible level of security is also ensured at the institutional level in the future. mr commissioner, you said that the member states were not interested in this. but who are the member states? if we ask our citizens (and such public opinion polls have already been conducted), you will see that they are prepared to see some of the accessibility transposed to the european level. but i must make it clear that i am against the closure of nuclear power plants for political reasons. japan has several nuclear power plants, and one of them suffered this terrible nuclear accident. before we can take any action, we need to have the arguments and the expertise. so we're going to need to have expert analysis of what happened at fukushima to even know what those real reasons were for the nuclear accident and for the damage to the core. in conclusion, i should like to say that we are in the process of adopting a directive on radioactive waste and that we will be able to show our seriousness here. (the speaker agreed to answer the three questions raised by the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
there are indeed thousands of victims in japan and i have deep personal sympathy for them and i think that the european union must also offer all possible help. but i'm against these victims being used to fight against the use of nuclear energy, which is ideological. that's why i said we need to analyze the causes that led to this nuclear accident, to find out if they are possible in europe and how we can avoid them. and i ask that we not confuse the victims of natural disasters, the victims of earthquakes and tsunamis, with the potential victims of nuclear accidents. that answers one question. the second question is how many nuclear power plant accidents... - can i come in now? how many accidents is enough for me? i mentioned one power plant with multiple reactors, one power plant with multiple reactors. we know there are several power plants in japan. i think that every power plant... or every accident should be taken very seriously, not just how much, every accident and not just the accident, but also the events that are rated as less than an accident. we must learn from every incident. this example shows that one accident cannot be used to say that nuclear technology is unacceptable. there's one question i haven't answered yet. there were three questions. the carrot. can i? our country was also subjected to a safety review of the nuclear power plant and at that time also by austria, which was very active, additional seismic safety tests were carried out, additional modifications were also made to the power plant and this is actually a continuous practice. and i'm sure that everyone in slovenia will agree that we should of course also do such a stress test immediately. but because we're a small nuclear power, we're used to having relatively more international inspections than other nuclear power plants in larger countries.
on behalf of the alde group. mr vice-president, always smiling, mr commissioner, we have been talking very intensely, very vividly, about the need to reform the european neighbourhood policy in the east and the south since at least the beginning of this mandate of the european parliament. and of course, such a reform, which is supposed to bring about a more effective integration of interests in this region, has become, in fact, topical and acute, it has become a necessity after the dramatic changes and processes that have begun in the region. the resolution, drawn up by the excellent rapporteur, mr mário david, and supplemented by a wide range of shadow rapporteurs and colleagues as events unfolded, is now a complete document. it underlines our responsibility to develop relations with the countries of the region on the basis of modern values, democratic freedoms, human rights. it is no coincidence that we liberals in particular are emphasising more than ever the equality of women, the recognition of diversity, the protection of all minorities. all this must become an integral part of the policy that the european union, also through its diplomatic service, promotes in its environment in the future. we need to be more effective in supporting those who in different countries are fighting for the same thing: for freedom, the right to co-determination, the fair use of natural resources. the resolution calls for more operational financial instruments to support economic development, infrastructure modernisation and investment in areas where they are effective... where the effects are somewhat less visible but more long-term, such as education, the linking of research and university institutions and the introduction of new technologies. finally, it is no coincidence that the resolution stresses the need for a revival of the union for the mediterranean in the role of development, dialogue and solving the region's open problems. it is time, ladies and gentlemen, to open the box of open problems and frozen conflicts, so that a wave of democratization can remove the remaining political obstacles to peace, reconciliation and new development paradigms in the region. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
in any case, i think if you talk about the whole initiative covered by the report i think our investments will certainly be very very very ... very useful and in proportion to the damage that would be caused if we did not get more involved in this area. this is particularly true of the union for the mediterranean, where it is clear that we need to develop more instruments for an effective european union policy.
the agreement reached last week, with the active participation of the new interim egyptian government, by the palestinians, the top representatives of fatah and hamas, opens up new possibilities for the continuation, or better, the beginning of a real palestinian-israeli dialogue on peace and coexistence on the basis of mutual recognition. i hope that the israeli government will also give due consideration to the possibilities offered by the palestinian agreement. it is wrong to doubt the added value of palestinian unity and the agreement on democratic elections, and therefore prime minister netanyahu's statements about the choice the authorities in ramallah have between israel and hamas do not serve the cause of peace, the search for a solution, or the project of two states living side by side in mutual respect. it is right that the democratic changes taking place in the arab world become the foundation of new paradigms of security, coexistence and development.
you, mrs ashton, embody the political ambitions of the european union in the common foreign and security policy. i ask you to personally visit iraq as soon as possible. you're needed in baghdad, as well as in kurdistan. the americans are leaving before the end of the year, there's a big void, and the european union is not there, or we have so few diplomats there that they're not noticeable and they can't be noticeable. in iraq, they want our presence, they want your presence, they want political cooperation, and they want economic cooperation. i would like to commend you on your statement today on bosnia and herzegovina - you said it nicely, but you still haven't named the head of the delegation in sarajevo. the failure to appoint a head of delegation is an excuse for many who are destabilising bosnia and herzegovina from within and from without, and the appointment of a head of delegation would put an end to this.
in the field of foreign and security policy, we can only expect more challenges in the future, and the emphasis on credibility is even more important - without it we cannot be effective. credibility means first of all consistency with our values and principles. i agree with you, mrs ashton, that we must not forget what the european union started from. years ago, she put man in the middle. let us export respect for human dignity and all identities and contribute more to intercultural dialogue. the council expects a stronger role for the european union, not for the 27 foreign policy. more unity does not mean eliminating diversity. in conclusion, i would like to highlight three points: firstly, the need to unblock bosnia and herzegovina, otherwise there could be a new outbreak of violence; secondly, the need to find a way to a united and strategic relationship with turkey, which was hardly mentioned today; and thirdly, i welcome your determination on camp ashraf, our voice against violence against civilians must be clear and decisive here and everywhere in the world.
the reporter. - first of all, this morning will really be spent in the spirit of the work of our committee on culture, education and youth. i am the rapporteur for the dossier, the important report on youth and mobility, which was produced on the basis of a communication from the european commission, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues for giving me the opportunity to prepare this report, and at the same time to thank the european commission for having prepared this report and for having placed youth issues among the fundamental priorities for the development of the european union over the past decade. in the preparation of this report, i worked with many stakeholders, particularly those from the youth sector, both from the member states and at european level, with the european youth forum, for example. we've had quite a few meetings and conferences. i also worked with the committee of the regions and the committee on economic and social affairs to produce a report based on many exchanges of views during the drafting process. i would also like to stress that the attitude of my colleagues from the other political groups was quite constructive when we adopted this report. i would like to thank in particular my shadow rapporteurs, who have done a good job and have given us the report we have today. i would like to emphasise that various analyses show that young people who have participated in learning or work mobility abroad do better in school, are more successful, are more competitive in finding a job and are also more successful in their integration into society. but policy alone cannot provide good schools, good education, and good jobs for young people, but it can create some conditions for that to happen. and these conditions are certainly linked to the modernization of the school education system. europe and in particular the member states are faced with a major challenge to improve vocational education and training, for example, in this decade, to make it more attractive and also of higher quality. the european economy needs the skills profiles of this level of education for the next decade. in 20 years, i expect that 50% of jobs will require this type of training. vocational education and training therefore remains one of the priorities of our policy as well as that of the member states. well, it's more important to continue the reform of the bologna process. european universities must become even more open to the economy and to society in general. european universities will become more competitive when they are able to recognise the needs of the market, the economy and to find additional sources of funding. the fact is that we underfund higher education in europe. european countries, the member states of the european union, are not investing enough in students, and that's a big problem. of course, the european union has set itself other objectives within this priority that will need to be achieved. to reduce drop-out, educational rash, which is unreasonably high, 16%, and we should bring it down to 10%. we would also need more highly qualified staff in this decade if the european union is to remain competitive with other regions. since my time has run out, i shall take two minutes later to explain further after the hearing.
at a time when cultural differences between nations are encouraging bureaucrats to close borders - the danes have done it in the last instance - and build high walls, when conflict resolution is left to weapons rather than understanding and compassion, when artistic achievements are becoming disposable commodities and big profits, when all-powerful global monopolies are being created that dictate trends and values, the report on the cultural dimension of our foreign service and the cultural dimension of the european union as a whole is more than welcome. the report takes us through the ways in which our shared cultural image and the artistic achievements of small nations and european union members in contact with each other's cultures can raise the standard of our discourse, even relieve the burden of our diplomats and strategists in finding solutions to the myriad crises at home and around us. new media and new technologies, with no boundaries, open up immense possibilities. perhaps in the report there could be a word more dedicated to the book, the idea, for example, of relieving the book of its tax burden. we could talk about cultural management or melina mercouri's unique idea of a city as a european capital of culture, give it a new impetus. my colleagues, commissioner, let's give sarajevo a chance!
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start by expressing the commission’s sympathy for, and solidarity with, the people of lorca and its neighbourhood. as a child i experienced a very strong earthquake in my home city, and i know how horrible the experience is. as europeans, we should not be satisfied with the situation of the european education system. we cannot accept that one in seven of our young people leaves school without the skills and qualifications that he or she needs in order to find employment and have a fulfilling life. nor do i accept that one in five of our young children cannot read properly. we have to really give our full attention to our education systems. we have to strengthen them by strengthening our mobility programmes, because through mobility young children, students, workers and volunteers get the transversal skills that they cannot get through formal education. i think that cutting our budgets on education is a very short-sighted policy. once again, i plead with the member states and governments not to do that, especially in times of crisis, because this will have very negative repercussions in the future. we must work together to ensure that, in the next multiannual financial framework, the provision for education and mobility is higher than at present, because that is what we need in order to exit the crisis and give meaning to our people. one honourable member made a reference to subsidiarity. let me assure you that all our policies and all our recommendations on education and culture fully recognise, and comply with, subsidiarity rules. we do not dictate to member states. we simply make recommendations to member states. we give them the platform to work together to exchange good practices and to learn from each other. cultural and creative industries are important – as many of you have mentioned – as a motor for development and for job creation. however, let us also remember that these creative and cultural industries have a value per se. creativity and culture are values of the european union which we have strengthened and have to maintain. after analysing the input that we have received on this topic from all the stakeholders, and following the public consultation with the stakeholders, we are about to put forward recommendations on how we should strengthen and support cultural and creative industries in order to develop and produce the results that we expect them to. regarding the external dimension of culture – culture in our external relations – i think we have a responsibility to do this. let us not forget that we have all signed and adopted the unesco convention on cultural diversity. we have to work with all the countries which have adopted the convention in order to ensure that it is implemented. let me stress that such cultural exchanges with the outside world will be beneficial not only for them, but also for us, because we are enriching our culture, our knowledge, and our values in the world. finally, i have taken note of the strong support that you all expressed for sarajevo getting the title for the 2014 capital of culture.
the reporter. - thank you for your speech, mr. chairman. thank you also for conducting this debate in such a democratic and open way that many of my colleagues were able to join in. the debate was of a very high quality and emphasised the following: we want to strengthen and maintain the existing mobility programmes under the lifelong learning programme as well as the youth in action programme. we also want to send a message to member states to devote more attention and also more money to youth policies that are multisectoral. and we also want to see some collateral benefit from this debate, so that member states can also continue with reforms of their education systems, social policies, also market reforms and so on. i just want to highlight the response to a complaint that came up in the hearing. the youth and mobility report does not focus too much on emphasising the importance of the market; we have even tried to avoid this by stressing several times that education systems must adapt to the needs of society and the economy, that this great gap, this great chasm, must be reduced as much as possible and that young people should be able to enter the labour market as smoothly as possible. and this, interestingly, this was also emphasized by youth organizations when we were preparing this report. in short, i would like to conclude by saying that we must harness all the positive energy we feel here in the european parliament, the temple of european democracy, and in the european commission, and make sure that this report is not just a letter on paper.
ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to thank you for your support of this written statement. this year's volunteer year also demonstrates our commitment to a clean environment. but i want to invite you to not just stop at this signature, but to help make this action, this one-day action to clean up our environment, succeed in as many countries as possible next year, in 2012, in more countries than ever before, and in this way also support the environmental societies in your countries.
the seventh framework programme entered into force in 2007 following the enlargement of the european union to 12 new member states. these two major enlargements have naturally also increased diversity in the european union. and here the question arises whether the seventh framework programme adequately incorporates this diversity, or is designed to promote research excellence equally across the european union. the audit shows certain patterns, but i'd like to draw your attention to two in particular. first, uneven geographical participation, poor participation of scientists in projects from certain areas of the union, in particular from less developed regions and from countries that joined the union in 2004 and later. and the second thing is that researchers from smaller member states are very poorly represented as project coordinators. so far, the explanation i have received for this situation is that excellence in research is the main selection criterion in the seventh framework programme. this suggests that the quality of research work in regions with a very low project presence is poor. but the question is, is that really the real reason? such an estimate cannot be made arbitrarily. i therefore invite the commission to study the causes of the very different geographical distribution of projects and coordinatorships. it is in the interest of member states lagging behind the european union's research excellence to use the european structural funds to strengthen their scientific and research sectors. this possibility must also be retained in the future financial perspective. however, structural funds must be used only within the member states to which they belong. the idea of spilling over from less developed countries to more developed ones, for example to build research infrastructure, is unacceptable because it would only increase the pace between regions. i hope that the commission will be able to dispel doubts about the equal opportunities of researchers and coordinators from different regions and countries of the union, provided, of course, that the condition of scientific excellence is met.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr commissioner, when another african country, south sudan, becomes independent on 9 july, another chapter of the colonial legacy will be closed on this continent. we want to believe that after the democratic decision in the referendum, south sudan will resolve the outstanding issues with the country in the north in a peaceful way, through negotiations, that the region will avoid the danger of conflicts and conflicts over borders, demographic and migration movements over oil and other natural resources, which both countries have a lot of, even if they are statistically poor. i stress the need for continued cooperation between the international community, the un, the african union and the european union, in consolidating both countries, in ensuring peace and in building the institutions of a democratic and pluralist state in the south. how timely a challenge, my fellow citizens, at a time when the entire wider region is experiencing a renaissance and opening up to the demands and standards of the modern age. sudan is once again on the brink of a major historical turning point. all the agreements that were made at the end of the bloody civil war have not been implemented. the situation in abyei is closer to crisis than peace, violence is rife in darfur, and sudan needs our concern and selfless help. it is also important that the security council has extended the mandate of unmis in sudan and will deploy additional peacekeepers to sudan. we call on the governments of khartoum and juba to accept the united nations peacekeepers as friends and to provide them with security.
bulgaria and romania have fulfilled the conditions and are entering the schengen area on their own merits. we must not allow political arguments to delay enlargement. i am deeply concerned about the populist and far-right nationalist rhetoric that is leading the union very dangerously towards intolerance, racism, discrimination and reckless closure. with each schengen enlargement, we are expanding the area of freedom, justice and security, and i am confident that time, as in the past, will show the possibilities for economic and other development. it is unacceptable that today some member states of the union are calling for the re-establishment of internal borders. the mobility of europeans within the union, the freedom to travel, is one of the core european freedoms and any restriction would jeopardise one of the most tangible benefits that citizens derive from closer european integration. by extending the schengen area to bulgaria and romania, we will prove that the idea of integration is still alive, that europe is moving forward and that the countries knocking at the door, including the western balkans, have a clear future in europe.
the hungarian presidency surprised us at the very beginning with an unusual gift, a map of a great hungary, a map of a dream which, of course, can only be realised in a united, democratic europe and does not benefit from recalling the past. today's debate also shows that nationalism, and excessive nationalism, is one of the reasons for the division. in the region where i come from, we have had a lot of problems over the last few decades because of nationalism. i ask my hungarian colleagues and the hungarian authorities to abandon their games of nationalism and their games of unfulfilled and criminal peace treaties. otherwise, the trianon will become a symbol of something that is not good for all of us.
mr. commissioner, you have accomplished a great deal. in a very short time, you have managed to draw up a fairly precise specification of stress tests and to reach an agreement between the european commission and the 27 regulatory authorities of the member states. the safety limits will be reassessed in the member states, this time beyond the design accident limits. and that's an important added value, an additional requirement. some colleagues have complained that the human factor has not been properly assessed or included. i have to say that i have read the specification of these stress tests myself and i am very pleased that in addition to technology, these tests also include the human factor and also the organizational aspects. this is a major step forward in the unification of european union safety standards and i believe that it should also serve as a further step forward in where and how to take a further step forward to increase the european union's competence in this area. and in this respect i am also awaiting a proposal from the european commission. to increase confidence, international reviews of the tests will be conducted, and here is my question. i am curious to know whether the group of seven will be composed of representatives of the european commission and representatives of the regulatory authorities or whether it will also include independent experts. and if they are, i wonder how they'll be chosen. i have two more questions. the question is: will those german nuclear power stations which have been shut down also have to undergo these tests? and the next question: what will the consequences of the closure of german nuclear power stations be for the internal european energy market? as for the nuclear waste directive, i would say that we will have more opportunities to discuss it next time, because you mentioned it in your speech, and i hope that the european commission will take the european parliament's proposals into account, because in the itre committee we voted on a number of stronger proposals than those originally proposed by the european commission.
the reporter. − we are considering a draft legislative document introducing for the first time european standards for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel. until now, more attention has been paid to the safe operation of nuclear power plants, and two years have passed since we adopted the nuclear safety directive. the european parliament has also repeatedly requested a directive on the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel. the events at fukushima have shown that we were right, because spent nuclear fuel in the temporary pool can also pose a risk that can be avoided by appropriate measures. the position in the itre committee is very much in favour of the idea of a european directive, but we want it to be stronger in certain places. in our report we have focused on the technological aspects, the provision of financial and human resources and the independent, strong and competent supervisory authorities. now, a little more specifically, about attitudes. even the best ideas, however desirable, are not put into practice unless sufficient funding is available. in itre, we have substantially updated the requirements for financial resources. it is not enough for us that these resources are sufficient and available. at the political level, we must ensure that these two requirements are also met. we therefore support greater transparency and control over financial resources. we're also introducing a requirement that the money be spent on purpose. we also supported the implementation of the 'polluter pays' principle, which i consider to be one of the key demands of the european parliament. we also addressed public concerns about the safety of the spent fuel and supported the principle of feedbacks. we took the position that spent nuclear fuel should be controlled. however, in the case of technical reasons or new technological solutions, it can be extracted, processed or recycled and reused. we have substantially strengthened the transparency requirements and have more precisely defined public participation, the content to be informed, the way of communication, participation in procedures. in doing so, we refer to the aarhus convention. we've been very supportive of regional cooperation in the board. to avoid this being used as an excuse to delay decisions, we have added a number of requirements to be met by such regional cooperation. we have paid particular attention to the protection of workers handling spent fuel and radioactive waste, to the observance of the professionally established principle of alara (as low as reasonably achievable), to education, training, as well as to the development of scientific and technological skills. i would like to stress in particular the position on the export of radioactive waste. i hope to argue that there is no member of the committee who would support the so-called nimby (not in my backyard) principle. we're not about to be irresponsible. we want the radioactive waste to be safely disposed of. but we know there are exceptions where export is allowed. we therefore supported the amendment allowing exports to countries that have the same guaranteed standards as we will introduce in the eu with this directive. for example, countries without a final disposal site should not export radioactive waste. we also tabled an amendment requiring the european commission to evaluate the concept of radioactive waste and spent fuel management after the mutual expert reviews. particular emphasis should be placed on the principle of recourse and export requirements. your honour, the european parliament has only a consultative role under the euratom treaty. we've worked hard, and i hope our work is not in vain. i therefore expect the european commission and the council to take our views into account and i ask you to also identify with the positions adopted by the itre committee in the context of this debate.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the speeches show how parliament and its members have read, worked on and evaluated the proposals in detail. i don't see the contradiction. i want to assure you that we will continue to take your suggestions into consideration in the proceedings. we consider that one point that mr swoboda has mentioned - the issue of equal rights for citizens to participate across borders - is essential. the situation is that, for geological or other reasons, the most suitable sites for the storage of nuclear waste and for nuclear power stations are often border areas, so that an indivisible, equal participation of citizens and transparency and the corresponding rights are necessary at european level. thank you for your cooperation. we ask for your support for the vote here in parliament tomorrow.
the reporter. − i am very pleased that this debate has also shown that many of the points on which we have similar views are almost identical and that these are the points which are crucial to ensuring the safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. i must also say that the work during the period following the fukushima accident was extremely difficult and i am glad that, despite this difficult period, the text adopted by the itre committee was sufficiently well prepared and did not lead us into an ideological debate. my assessment is that where we differ, the differences are such that they do not compromise the report, and that's a good thing. so i would like to see a report, to see the directive adopted as soon as possible and to see it implemented. i am of course in agreement with all those members who have mentioned the sole competence of the european parliament to consult on nuclear energy. i think we should have a very serious debate on this and find a common solution in this area, because it is a question of democracy. finally, i would like to thank all those who have helped to prepare this report, namely the shadow rapporteurs, first in the itre committee, then the rapporteurs and their groups who prepared the opinions, all your colleagues who took part in the debates and prepared the amendments, the council and the european commission - we worked well together and exchanged views in a timely and timely manner - and, of course, my assistant, my adviser in my political group and my adviser in the itre committee.
cohesion policy has proved to be the most important tool in reducing economic and social disparities between regions in the european union during the financial and economic crisis. it is one of the fundamental policies whose positive effects are truly visible everywhere, in every corner of the european union, in every member state, in virtually every city, every local community in the eu. it is a policy that enables structural reform and progress. it is, in fact, a solution to the present economic difficulties, not a cost. the success of the europe 2020 strategy will also depend to a large extent on the success of the european union's cohesion policy, and it is therefore crucial that these funds remain a priority for the european budget over the next seven years. however, as the most important issue at the moment remains the link with the introduction of the so-called new intermediate category of regions, i would like to invite the commissioner, and in particular the european commission, to present to us as soon as possible, in the shortest possible time, all the details that are still unclear regarding the establishment of this region, especially the financial aspects and effects, since this is a question of the future development of regions throughout the european union.
the reporter. - maybe i wasn't paying enough attention, but according to my ballot paper, we didn't vote on the second part of amendment 62.
commissioner, you have answered some of our concerns, but i regret to say that we are again faced with an offer that we europeans simply cannot and must not accept. the proposal does not improve standards of personal data protection, as even the legal service admits. i feel like someone's been pressing on my ears. indeed, practically any reason, even the slightest crime, will justify the storage of our personal data. we need to be clear about why all of them will be used by the u.s. authorities. we cannot allow the data of millions of travelers, including credit card numbers, to be used at the us border for security purposes other than the prevention of terrorism and serious crime. this is a very big step backwards for privacy. how we're going to explain to people that the u.s. government can still store our data for up to 15 years, i don't know. the draft agreement is grossly incompatible with fundamental human rights. we have every chance of turning him down. and so it is high time that the union is decisive and that the european commission returns to the negotiating table and achieves improvements to the proposal and ensures that the interference with our privacy is truly legally justified.
mr. chairman, the gaza flotilla is back on the scene, and it's sparking a heated debate about the appropriateness, necessity and dangers of such an initiative. the impression is that all the media storm around the flotilla about its final fate at this moment there is nothing concrete to say is actually just a deceptive maneuver to not speak in an appropriate way, with enough sharpness and responsibility about the serious situation in gaza, where 1.5 million people since 2007 live in inhuman conditions. the situation in gaza is not changing for the better, and therefore an acceptable solution to the palestinian-israeli conflict is no closer than it was five, ten or thirty years ago. the solution has a name and a definition two state solution, two states living in peace, mutual respect and mutual recognition. a major step in the right direction would be for israel to restore dignity to the people of gaza. then humanitarian operations like the flotilla would no longer be necessary.
hungary has undoubtedly ended its presidency with one great success, the conclusion of accession negotiations with croatia, and has confirmed that the enlargement project is alive, which is a very good signal for the entire western balkans. we in slovenia (and our neighbours in croatia) also sincerely congratulated you on this. no doubt you deserve some more credit. you have laid a good foundation for the european future of the roma, you have succeeded with the danube, but unfortunately we have been forced to spend far too much time on your internal political disputes instead of solving common european problems, starting with new media legislation that seriously questioned media freedom, constitutional changes that the ruling party has flagged to its liking. we all want europe to be strong, but i think people are becoming less accepting of us. the change in the schengen rules, mr orban, schengen and the euro are symbols of europe. we do not want a europe that takes steps backwards in its democratic development. although the hungarian presidency is over, we will be following your future moves closely and i therefore expect poland to turn the corner with skill and strong responsibility.
mr orban, honourable prime minister of hungary, allow me to begin by thanking you on behalf of the slovenian delegation to the european people's party for your excellent presidency and congratulating you on a job well done. it was not easy, it was a steady path in a way, you presided over the circumstances of the crisis, fukushima and also the political tsunami from the political left, including in the european parliament, which constantly politicized your work and also mixed some internal political issues with european ones. however, you have achieved good results, and i would particularly like to point out to those who say that you are not a true european that the european semester is one of the most pro-european mechanisms that we have adopted in the european institutions since the amendment of the constitution. you're good, the facts speak for themselves, i wish you many more... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
my dear mr poettering, i have to ask you a question. you have been a very successful and very very (i would say) profound president of the european parliament. i admire you as a wise politician. i would like to know your opinion: would it not be right for the european parliament to have a thorough debate on the israeli-palestinian problem, rather than having it so partially, on the margins of some other debates? i think it's high time we did that and gave this problem the attention it deserves. what do you think about that? please, please, please.
the situation in the arab world remains explosive and varies from country to country, as we heard here today. it is therefore all the more important that the european union's role as a direct neighbour should be as proactive as possible, so that in the absence of a broad stabilisation programme, a comprehensive plan for the mediterranean, it contributes to the building of new democratic state institutions and civil society networks. i think it might also be an appropriate moment to thank you, lady ashton, and to say a few words of appreciation for your activities and your statements of late. and i have to say that it's... it's particularly paradoxical that germany is now willing to sell 200 of its most advanced tanks to saudi arabia. and this is a country that has used tanks against its own neighbors and is no doubt a candidate to use tanks against its own people. it is urgent, madam high representative, to prepare a strategy and to anticipate the next steps. when it comes to war and peace, we can't just improvise. diplomacy must be faster and more effective in finding peaceful solutions. we have to offer our...
in my country, slovenia, and in nine other member states of the union, including you, mr commissioner, we blew out the third candle last december since we entered schengen. we still have a very vivid memory of the fall of the frontiers of europe. it was a historic moment, a special day for us and for europe, which opened up to the people in the most visible and visible way possible. the will was then to unite and unite. today, however, some countries, denmark in particular, are destroying the dream of many europeans. the schengen system does not need to be changed today. we must not allow border controls to be reintroduced. if the system has flaws, we fix them. but what some governments are doing, threatening to reintroduce border controls and demanding new rules, is sending a message that they do not need europe. millions of europeans must not become the tools of populist politics. freedom of movement has been one of the ideals of european politicians for decades, and we expect the commission and the member states to support this and to listen to the european parliament in the autumn. our citizens will be very disappointed if we celebrate europe without borders for just a few years. then we won't have much left. i fear that our europe will then collapse like a house of cards.
european governments have shown little solidarity with mediterranean countries to address the refugee crisis. in recent months, hundreds, thousands of people have drowned trying to reach the shores of europe. they fled war and misery and died because of european indifference. europe has long been divided by the mass influx of african refugees, and every step is needed to help the refugees who arrive disappointed, sick and empty. strengthening the functioning and efficiency of frontex is essential if we are not to witness further tragedies when no one comes to the aid of refugees on the high seas. i hope that the common european border patrol will actually make a difference. all countries must take responsibility and deliver on their promises of financial and technical support. i also welcome the appointment of a special officer to ensure respect for human rights, as these are the worst victims of war, poverty and human cruelty. refugees are a challenge for the entire european union, and we all have a moral duty to step in when an unexpected wave of migrants exceeds the capacity of countries at the union's external borders to offer genuine asylum seekers safe haven. europe cannot be an example of indifference. (the speaker indicated that she would reply to the question raised by the raising of the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
thank you so much for asking. in every way, it's a refugee crisis, it's people who are dragged into europe by war and also poverty, misery. this is often the result of seeking refuge in europe, and i think our countries should actually help. these are refugees from war, these are refugees from poverty, and these are refugees who are actually victims of human evil.
respected, the measures under the remit regulation will be implemented by national authorities, with the main burden at european level being placed on acer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the necessary condition for both is that it has sufficient financial resources, and here i fully agree with what my colleague mr turmes said before me, and commissioner oettinger also spoke about this. and i am concerned that the assessment of what is needed to implement the remit regulation is very different between the european commission and acer alone. for example, the european commission estimates that we need 15 additional people to do this, acer estimates 56 people. the assessment of additional financial resources for equipment is also made by a factor of more than two. and i'm curious, of course, why there's such a big difference and what the actual financial realization will be and what will happen in the case of limited funding? i must stress that i am in favour of acer having sufficient resources to function properly, but i do not support the establishment of additional deployed units and the spending of money for this purpose. and given that one of the agency's offices in brussels has already been established, i am also interested in the legal basis for this decision. so, to emphasize once again at the end, i am concerned that there will not be enough money for the tasks which we all agree must be carried out under the remit regulation. this must not happen, the regulation must be implemented, and in full.
mr president, commissioner malmström, if 78% of europeans think that we should...demand a more effective fight against corruption, and if it costs at least €120 billion to the european taxpayer, then it is clear that we are not the most successful in fighting corruption at the level of the european union. i of course congratulate and welcome the measures, the package of measures, that the european commission has prepared this summer to fight corruption, but this is far from enough. the mechanism for reporting corruption to the european union is insufficient. it's not a big deal. what we need in the european union is a common european union body to fight corruption and also organised crime. so it's not necessarily that i'm... the european union will join greece, which is working in the council of europe and is responsible for fighting corruption or coordinating the fight against corruption in the member states, but we ourselves need such institutions, and therefore structural reforms, not just legislation. i know that there are problems, that there is a lack of political will, that some members have not yet signed the united nations convention against corruption, that the administrative and political culture and the business culture, especially in the new members, some new members of the european union, is too low, that we even have different notions, different definitions of corruption. but i think these problems are overcome in the future, and i would like to emphasize that we are only at the beginning of the organized fight against corruption and organized crime.
i'll talk about funding first, too. we all seem to agree that the research budget needs to be increased. i have heard many times today that 80 billion euros is a substantial increase in the budget. however, i do not agree with this myself, because the seventh framework programme cannot be directly compared with the eighth framework programme. the eighth framework programme contains everything that is in the seventh framework programme, plus the european institute of innovation and technology, then the innovation and competitiveness programme, then research currently under other budget lines, and probably something else. if the negotiations lead to a reduction in the proposal for the financial perspective, then increasing research funding is not a european priority, as representatives in the council like to say. secondly, i'd like to talk about the disproportionate geographical distribution. the answer is usually that this is because scientific excellence is the main criterion for selecting projects. there's nothing wrong with that, or it's the right thing to do. but we need to define scientific excellence in a way that applies to both small and large projects. because scientific excellence is not just a characteristic of large, multi-million-dollar, challenging projects. it can often be found in small projects as well. and that is what the future framework programme should support. thirdly, there is the fact that there are differences in research quality between member states and also between regions. i agree that these disparities between the existing state of research quality and research excellence need to be reduced by structural fund projects. and one last thing: similar results from the analysis of the work of the european research council, the erc. here too, projects usually go to larger member states and to more renowned universities. one of the researchers told me that the current state of affairs suggests that the program should be called fame instead of ideas. the criteria should be changed so that the idea plays the most important role and the qualifications of the researcher must be such as to ensure the execution of the project.
mr. president, you said we must be honest. you've given some very important messages, and i thank you for that. we want more europe, but we can no longer seem to find a common political will. you were right when you said that europe has a future if we build trust, and that we need stable growth and the political will of our leaders. people are worried, scared. we live in a time when young people no longer understand the meaning of european integration. they just want to know how they're gonna live their lives. you announced a call for businesses to offer young people job opportunities and benefit the social fund. it's not enough. we need action, young people need hope. the crisis of confidence is as serious as the economic and financial crisis. if our citizens don't believe us, they'll never support our moves. we're acting too late and indecisively. we are also losing the young generation that still believes in europe. we are also losing the countries that are knocking at the door of the union, the countries of the western balkans, which have a european perspective, but whose future, mr president, you have not mentioned today. so let's gain the trust of the people, and thank you very much.
i would like to ask my colleague what terrible tragedy she had in mind in france in connection with nuclear energy and what she thinks is the realistic scenario if we in the european parliament demand that we give up nuclear energy. how can we ensure greater security and sustainable development for the people of the world?
we are talking about sustainable development and international negotiations, and i have noticed that members of this house have been faced with dilemmas on several occasions since i have been in this parliament. because they have two options: the first option is to focus on the problem and try to solve it. another option is to use the problem for political promotion. in the first case, we risk having to work hard for an uncertain outcome, and people are unlikely to be informed of our work at all. it's bad for a political career. in the second case, we only have to talk about controversial domestic policy issues, and it is of no importance whether they are relevant to international negotiations or not. but we're guaranteed media coverage, and that's good for a political career. i'm all for focusing on solving the problem. and to do that, our resolution should be more focused and shorter. it should cover the global context without unnecessary domestic politics. the nuclear energy paragraph in the resolution is wrong and does not represent a solution. what will we accomplish by accepting it? no country will give up nuclear energy at the european parliament's request. if we want to do good, we have to provide people with a healthy environment and safety. in the context of nuclear energy, we can help to achieve this by demanding the highest possible nuclear standards and the international harmonisation of these standards. this is a real possibility and the union must commit itself to doing so. this is also linked to the quality of life of people inside and outside the union's borders. we are threatened by climate change, and nuclear power is the only energy source that produces electricity without emitting greenhouse gases. energy is an important part of the transition to a green economy and i myself support the development of sustainable energy sources and a strong focus on energy efficiency.
on behalf of all the co-plaintiffs, i would like to thank you for your support. it is an important message that we understand the plight of a small group of people, but that they have been marked by violent events related to war or terrorism for their entire lives. the written declaration was produced in cooperation with the national organisations of civilian war disabled throughout europe. we have collected almost 400 signatures, and i am particularly pleased that the leaders of the three largest political groups have joined us. but i must say that after seven years of work in the european parliament, i have for the first time realised that quite a few members or even entire national delegations do not sign written declarations for reasons of principle. no declarations. i'm not going to make a statement. it seems bizarre to me that a section of this house is systematically rejecting one of our most important political instruments.
commissioner, i'm not criticizing your work, but the european union loses credibility by playing with the rules like this. it is considered that bulgaria and romania fulfil all the conditions and that the netherlands and finland therefore have no arguments to block. and that kind of populism is very dangerous. europe is in a difficult situation where integration and trust are all the more important. and each enlargement has proved to be a strengthening of cooperation. why have a commission and a parliament if two countries can decide differently? we will be responsible if we screw up the schengen project. so i ask you, commissioner, how can we work together to break the blockade? if we can't, then i don't see the point of either of you or us doing this. we have a delicate schengen reform on the table, we must remain wise and sober and find common solutions and in no way undermine the foundations of freedom of movement.
mr. president, thank you very much for giving me your word. since human lives are at stake, i think it's only fair that i ask. on the night of october 22nd to 23rd, unknown perpetrators, believed to be a terrorist organization, abducted three aid workers, two spaniards and an italian woman, in the tindouf refugee camp. i would ask the office headed by mrs ashton to engage as much as possible with the countries that apparently have a stake in this problem, in the western sahara problem, namely algeria, morocco and mali, to engage. )
in recent months, we have seen more than a million people leave behind everything and flee the turmoil in arab and north african countries because of persecution, violence, and war. although relatively few made it to europe, we were all shocked to see men, women, and children risking their lives in unseaworthy boats trying to cross the mediterranean. a number of people drowned on this journey, but the exact number of lives lost will remain unknown. some 5,000 refugees resettled in the union last year, and about 75,000 resettled in the united states during the same period, according to the data. in fact, all eu member states currently take in fewer resettled refugees than canada combined, which clearly shows that europe needs to do much more on resettlement. but how, when we have already lost two years because of the failure of the codecision procedure and have seriously jeopardised the additional funds that the member states will not receive if we do not find a solution by the end of the year. it is imperative that we adopt a joint european union resettlement programme as soon as possible. in europe, some estimates put the number of places available at some 6,000 for people who cannot or do not want to return to their homes because of fear of further persecution or living in dangerous conditions in the countries of their first asylum. by accelerating the programme, which must become an integral part of the union's asylum policy, europeans would demonstrate a greater commitment to international solidarity and responsibility-sharing and would also obtain the necessary financial injections. otherwise, we will seriously jeopardise new lives, worsen the already catastrophic and humanitarian situation in the centres, and make refugees even easier prey for trafficking networks. the european refugee fund and resettlement are life-saving measures for refugees. so we all have a responsibility to the people who put their lives at risk. it is therefore high time that we found a solution and that we were informed of the proceedings by the council in a timely and appropriate manner.
first of all, as rapporteur for the itre opinion, i would like to thank my colleagues for the good cooperation in both the envi and itre committees, and in doing so we have recognised the truly horizontal role that climate change plays. sustainable technologies will play a key role in the transition to a low-carbon society. this requires increased investment in research, innovation and deployment of new technologies at european and global level. the cancún agreement on the technology mechanism and technology transfer network must therefore be implemented as soon as possible. it is difficult in times of financial crisis, but we must also ensure that appropriate investment programmes are in place. we have already adopted a climate and energy legislative package in the union and have also committed ourselves to financial assistance to developing countries. however, the union will not be able to stop global warming on its own. the only way we're gonna get results is if the rest of the world comes with us. so we are not just looking for a balance between environment, safety and the economy, but also a balance between responsibility between the union and the rest of the world, and in this context i very much agree with what the commissioner said about the bridge, the conditions and the timetable. measures should not merely divert pollution outside the union and lead to carbon leakage. we must prevent products from being imported into the union which would be competitive because of lower environmental standards. so we need to look at what's happening on our borders. we have to consider the possibility of carbon leakage. the eu should also emphasise in the climate negotiations that a healthy environment is a fundamental human right. these rights should be guaranteed by all the nations of the world.
listening to this debate, i have the feeling that it is rather asymmetrical and that more or less those who oppose this report, which introduces the cultural heritage label for the european union after 2013, nevertheless think that the report was adopted by a large majority, i also support it and it has received a lot of support in our committee on culture. but, ladies and gentlemen, a man can make a lot of different... (the president interrupted the speaker. )
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. although not all member states use it, the importance of this energy does not mean that research at european level should be abandoned. in particular, i would mention research areas such as, for example, sustainable use and resource efficiency (this is mainly the fourth generation of reactors), and then nuclear fuel reprocessing, nuclear safety, nuclear waste disposal, decommissioning of power plants. the area of recruitment is particularly important, as for a long time this energy has been neglected and as such has not presented a specific perspective for young people. and the iter project: i think we need to provide it with long-term, stable funding. i would also like to point out that the results of the study on the use of financial resources under the seventh framework programme were very interesting and it would be very useful to have information on how the funds were used for the euratom programme.
yesterday, here in the european parliament, we heard about the torture and the horrors that are happening to people in iranian prisons, what is happening to them on the streets, even in their homes and at the university. it is appalling what anti-women policies the iranian authorities have! i would also like to draw attention to the situation of the refugees in camp ashraf, because the iraqi government has decided to close this camp, this refugee camp, by the end of the year. we are in a time crunch to ensure the safety of these people, and i expect the european union to take a more decisive action. i want baroness ashton to condemn this action, this decision by the iraqi government, which i condemn, and to call on the united nations refugee agency to conduct interviews with these people quickly to ensure their safety. and the worst that can happen is that these people stay in iraq. it is urgent that we make sure that they are resettled in third countries.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr commissioner, distinguished guests from croatia in the gallery. we are honored that you have come to hear us on this day that is important to you and important to us. croatia has had to wait a long time for this solemn moment. there are a few more such solemn moments to come in the coming weeks, and i think that in reality croatia has had to pay a little more for its membership than many other countries that have joined the european union in the last ten years. and it was also the result of some misguided optics in europe. croatia is one of the perpetrators of the balkan wars, not the main victim of these wars. in any case, today we can conclude that the european idea, that the european future of croatia has contributed to a greater cohesion of croatian politics and people in croatia this is an important achievement. this is a particularly significant achievement for a country which, because of its history, is essentially a heterogeneous country. and today everyone in croatia has a common goal to look forward to. there are still some open positions. the commissioner has spoken very clearly about them, and i agree with him. there are many things that croatia will have to improve its performance in the coming years - in the area of media freedom, protection of human rights, minorities and other things - but these are also our problems, not specifically croatian problems. finally, let me welcome croatia, and look forward to the new 28 members of the european union.
support for croatia will be an important message tomorrow that the enlargement is continuing despite the difficult times. and i hope that this year will be followed by some more positive messages from european governments to the western balkan countries. i would like to congratulate croatia sincerely on a truly great success, which is important for all the countries in the region. i am also optimistic that croatia will be a good example for the rest, especially in addressing outstanding bilateral issues and in particular in building mutual trust. i agree that the arbitration agreement between slovenia and croatia was a great success. membership brings benefits both to the union and to croatia, which has implemented demanding reforms, especially those related to the fight against corruption and organised crime. and the mix of marathon and sprint must never end. this is something that everyone should be aware of, including politicians who too often in the region, not just in croatia, break the hard-won balance with thoughtless statements. but people must realise that in the end it is they who will decide whether they want a future in the european union. in slovenia, we have passed the referendum test very successfully. i believe that croatia will also succeed in doing so, because the future of europe is an investment in progress, reform and stability in our region. i look forward to seeing my croatian colleagues very soon, including here in the parliamentary seats.
i warmly congratulate the republic of croatia on the successful conclusion of the accession negotiations and the imminent signing of the treaty of accession. croatia is proof that, with persistent work, it is possible to harness the european perspective to strengthen the still unfinished process of european integration. croatia will thus become the second country to emerge from the territory of the former yugoslavia and to join the european union. i hope that the success of croatia will also stimulate the progress of the accession processes of other countries of south-east europe, to whom the european perspective was offered in thessaloniki. this process must continue, despite the current crisis, in the interests of peace, development and cooperation in the region, which is in the interest of europe as a whole.
the success of croatia is another big defeat for the eurosceptics and i congratulate croatia, the negotiating teams on both sides, the assembly and the citizens of croatia, also the commission, especially the commissioner and his team, and the polish presidency. we should all be proud of this important achievement and success of the european union. i also want to thank johannes swoboda for his many years of positive work. on december 9th, we should hand over the relay baton of expansion from croatia to montenegro and give it a date. croatia deserves a neighbor who can negotiate. he deserves a new candidate, and so does the entire western balkans. we support and encourage montenegro and serbia because it will be good for the region. i therefore call on the european commission and the council, and in particular on the polish presidency, to join forces in the coming days and crown croatia's success with the success of montenegro and serbia.
i returned yesterday from tindufa, where i saw the benefits that the people of western sahara are receiving from our policy and from all those who claim to accept agreements for the benefit of this population. this agreement must be rejected and i strongly urge that it be rejected on moral, political, ethical and international legal grounds. this agreement is not a normal fisheries agreement. this is an agreement in which the networks will take on international law and justice. this is an agreement that insults the dignity of this people of western sahara who suffer under moroccan occupation. so we can't talk about it as some routine fish deal. this is a political agreement, and we'll be on the wrong side if we vote for it.
my dear lady ashton, allow me first to welcome to this house an important guest who is probably expecting a great deal from our debate, the leader of the russian opposition, mr. mikhail kasyanov, who is here on the balcony. i think we have to thank people like the kasyanov for their persistence and for their courage. i also think that we should not ignore them and let them down when we talk to the official representatives of the russian state. we used to have a wide dialogue with people like kasyanov, with other representatives of the russian opposition. i think we can all admit, self-critically, that we've neglected that, too. i also hope, mrs ashton, that you will let the russian leaders know that we are counting on greater cooperation on the open issues in their neighborhood, because russia, especially on the issue of nagorno-karabakh, could make a constructive contribution.
we live in a time when the trust of our citizens is at stake. it is therefore more urgent than ever that our institutions operate as transparently as possible. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr cashman, on his persistent efforts to increase public access to documents in all the institutions of the union. it's in the public interest. slovenia was among a group of like-minded countries that advocated the need for as much transparency as possible. the public deserves to be properly informed. by setting a good example at european level, we will also be able to make a significant impact on the right of access to public information at national level. in supporting the report, we will support the decisions of the court of justice of the union, which has repeatedly ruled in favour of transparency. we will reject the possibility of an unconditional veto by members over access to documents which they themselves have forwarded to the institutions and will ensure a rapid appeal procedure in the event of a refusal of access to documents. i am confident that greater public access to our documents will in no way impair our work. open doors, my friends, build trust, but closed doors, unfortunately, lead to isolation.
