i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i have to agree with what several colleagues have already said, namely that the current legislation largely works. that's not the problem. the problem is rather one of compliance, control and sanctioning. we have no right to interfere with sanctions systems at eu level, and we must remember that if we write laws without sanctions systems at the same time, we are writing a lot of laws outright, hardly even on paper. it's not working. but the commissioner raised something of the utmost importance. i was the rapporteur for the regulation on which the feed inspections are based. the commissioner raised the issue of the strict separation of raw materials for the feed industry and for technical purposes, in this case fat. my proposal ten years ago was to colour all products of dubious origin. because, frankly, i feel very, very sorry for the farmers who are going to be repeatedly poisoned by the feed and have nothing to do with it.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the important question now is how we avoid new scandals, new risk situations. it is good that the commissioner is going to germany and it is obvious that the agriculture council must discuss the matter. it would have been a scandal if they hadn't. there is still work to be done in this area. yes, we need strong sanctions that the member states understand that they have to decide. above all, we need an end to self-control. for other industries and businesses, it is perfectly natural that independent authorities should monitor compliance with the rules. but that is not the case in the food industry, which is the industry that we humans live on. we cannot blame the big business, the low-cost competition and so on. as consumers, we don't want to eat toxic food. we need to make sure that consumers know when they are actually doing it and that they know that they should not have to do it.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. these so-called flegt agreements which we are going to vote on tomorrow concerning the congo and cameroon are important european tools, or weapons, in the fight against illegal logging. that's why i welcome them. illegal logging is a very big problem, both environmentally and economically and socially. at the same time, it is important to remember that it is rarely the disease itself, in this case illegal logging, that creates the conditions for the trade in illegal timber. rather, it is a symptom and consequence of many other diseases, many of which are even more serious - poverty, lack of property rights, corruption and, in some cases, war. the problems are most acute in some of the world's poorest countries. i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken this into account when drafting and negotiating the agreements. free trade has been exchanged, so to speak, in return for the countries concerned to introduce reforms to strengthen property rights, fight corruption and ensure the introduction of sensible forestry legislation. and that's why i think that the fact that we're looking at the root causes rather than the symptoms is the biggest indication that what we're doing tomorrow is a step in the right direction. at the same time, it is important to remember, especially in the context of future negotiations with other countries, that when we fight the trade in illegally harvested timber, we must not prevent poor countries from exporting one of their most valuable commodities. we must not make it harder for them to use this wonderful natural material that is wood. the good doesn't become the enemy of the good. i would remind you that my country, sweden, once became rich by exporting timber. we must not deny the poor countries of today that opportunity. as you now go ahead and negotiate agreements, i hope you will continue to fight against illegal timber and not against the timber trade.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, one of the objectives of the epas is to promote regional integration. what we have seen so far is that this is not happening. on the contrary, in the case of the pacific, the eu is undermining unity by offering interim agreements to some acp countries, with special conditions attached. the derogation from the rules of origin for fish processed in papua new guinea and fiji is an example of this. i believe that this derogation is potentially hazardous and that it must be thoroughly evaluated in 2011, as already agreed. i say this because it is important to have facts when discussing this matter. what are the effects on global fish stocks, on employment and on the environment in papua new guinea? what are the social conditions of the workers? all this must be fully and transparently assessed, and then the derogation may or may not be abolished on that basis, and not on the basis of complaints from the spanish fishing industry which, itself, fishes in papua new guinea but never lands fish there – and, by the way, does not pay customs duty when it sells the fish as european on the european market.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking mrs roberta angelilli for the initiative and thanking commissioner georgieva for her reply. this is an important debate. a home to call your own, a family to protect you, to warm and protect a fragile little child is something that very many children around europe today lack. it's a dream for those kids who grow up in institutions. we must all do our utmost now to ensure that orphaned and abandoned children do not have to grow up in orphanages and other institutions, but in families where they receive the affection that can carry them into adulthood, so that they grow up whole and not broken. in our member states we have different views on what individuals can constitute a family. i think we can all agree that a family can look different, but the most important thing is to meet the child with love and care. i hope we can also agree on the importance of cooperation on policies and instruments for intercountry adoption. i assume that the commission will take the lead in this work. i also look forward to working with my colleagues on a joint resolution on this issue. to the extent that we can help to bring together an abandoned orphan with a family longing for children, we have done a very great thing. let us also remember the importance of how these younger brothers and sisters meet. if we meet them with love, we increase the dawn on earth. i believe that this is a life task for all of us, regardless of our role in society.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think it would be of great value if the eu, at the highest level, started an interreligious dialogue. i would like to see the eu try to make turkey host such a dialogue. we all know how christians have been treated around the world, in different parts of the middle east, the copts in egypt, the iraqi christians in iraq, etc., etc. we cannot, in my firm opinion, merely report, listen and see this, but we must do something concrete. the first thing we have to do, in my view, is to create a dialogue. it would be valuable if turkey, with the spirit of bridging that i believe it has after all, could host this kind of dialogue. it's about jews, about christians, about muslims. let us establish a broad interreligious dialogue under the auspices of the european union.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is not impossible to note that serbia has made great progress in recent times. let me mention a few: a successfully concluded visa liberalisation process, regional cooperation in both transport and energy, a political will to contribute to the reconciliation process in the region, and a new political leadership, most visible in president boris http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/boris_tadi%c4%87" \o "boris tadiæ" visits to both srebrenica and vukovar. all of these things show not only the good leadership of individuals and the strong will of serbia to take a step closer to eu membership, but also the decision of the serbs to choose just such a leadership. we are therefore pleased that the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and serbia is now also ready and that we are sending clear signals to serbia that we see the results of its efforts and that serbia has a place in the eu family. it is clear that many challenges remain: the fight against organised crime, continued legal reforms and a solution to minority issues. most of these problems, however, are not unique to serbia, but are shared by the other balkan countries. however, a rather unique issue which must be mentioned in this context is cooperation with the hague tribunal. the political will of the serbian government is there. there is also an awareness of the need to continue to cooperate fully with the tribunal. let us hope that ratko mladić will soon be back in the hague.
in writing. - on a planet of nearly 9 billion people, the future of food security is a matter of destiny. this report focuses on this enormous challenge and raises several important issues, such as the problem of 'land grabbing', which we of course support. at the same time, the report unfortunately calls for a number of common measures - such as the european nutrition programme, the school milk and school fruit programmes, and an increased budget for these - which we believe should be left to the individual member states to decide for themselves. we therefore decided to abstain in the final vote.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i believe that tomorrow's vote is one of the most important votes i have seen in my six years in the european parliament. not that it affects so many, because the vast majority of people want and have the right to receive good care in their own time and place. but because the people it affects, for them, it can be so incredibly important. it could be a matter of life and death. this is also the basic idea of european cooperation - free movement. it is a shame that we are only now extending freedom of movement to those who need it most, the sick, the sick. this is a compromise and i know that i and my colleagues in the epp would have liked to go further in many respects, but we must remember at this moment how it sounded not so long ago. with all the talk about medical tourism, about the threatened collapse of national health care systems, the requirement for advance notice, or as we say in plain english: that as a patient you should be obliged to ask for permission before you use the rights that the ec court has given us. that was the case then, and in view of that, it is a huge success that we are getting a decision at all. i do not see this as a decision we are taking in spite of the swedish or european left, but rather in spite of it. i remember how it has sounded and how, for example, the swedish social democrats abstained when we voted on this at first reading. yesterday there was a call for advance notice to be introduced in sweden. i hope sweden doesn't. we have managed without prior notice for many years and i hope we will not have to do so in the future. but tomorrow our decision will be finalized here in the european parliament, and then it will be up to the member states and the commission. implement this so that we strengthen patients' rights instead of diminishing them. that is my appeal to the member states. i would like to say to the commission: the member states must be scrutinized, because we know they will want to get away.
(blue-card question under rule 149(8) to nigel farage) mr president, it is always – or at least sometimes – amusing to listen to mr farage because he knows all the answers, and he asks himself all the questions. but, mr farage, would the alternative of 16, 17 or, indeed, up to 20 different currencies – as we had in the 1990s when the pound sterling collapsed – have been preferable? would that have improved the current situation in europe? no economist would agree with you on that, mr farage. you cannot simply say that we are living in the past. we are dealing now with issues that concern europe today. you never answer the question of how to deal with this current situation and with the future. you are a populist and it is too easy for you to answer all your own questions.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the deteriorating security situation in the sahel is extremely serious. it has cost many lives and threatens to undermine the political progress made in recent years in the fight against terrorism. it is quite natural that i should also wish to express my sympathy to all those who have been so badly affected by this appalling violence. it is particularly regrettable that attacks by al-qaeda are increasing in the sahel region while they are decreasing in many other parts of the world. an estimated 25% of the global cocaine trade from latin america to europe passes through the sahel region each year. drug trafficking allows terrorist activities to be financed through stable revenues and also to recruit young people in the region and pay well. this alarming development is also of concern to our colleagues in the sahel region and at the last meeting of the joint parliamentary assemblies of the acp and eu countries in december we discussed exactly how the security situation in the region could be improved and smuggling reduced. here, catherine ashton, the need for eu action is very clear and it also needs to be strengthened. we must develop and coordinate our efforts with the sahel countries through a comprehensive regional strategy, just as you have been doing. the eu has a joint responsibility to provide quality assistance, with a clear strengthening of democratic forces.
mr president, i would like to thank you. libya is quite good at ratifying international agreements, but it seems equally good at not implementing these agreements. it is a shame that libya has a seat and a vote in the un human rights council. it is also a shame that saudi arabia is sitting there. libya should really be convinced that, through strong pressure from its biggest trading partner, the eu cares about what respect for human rights and freedoms is and what they require. as we all know, the eu's relations with libya are very much about how to deal with refugees. as long as the council and the commission cannot persuade libya to allow the unhcr to stay legally in the country, there is no reason to feel the slightest security about the treatment of refugees in libya. the leader of libya is a master of capriciousness and unreliability. the eu is now to conclude a framework agreement with him. one cannot help but wonder what the concept of framework means for a regime like gaddafi which behaves in an unlimited disregard for human rights. we know that libya discriminates widely against migrant workers on the basis of their nationality and that racist persecution of african migrant workers exists. human value is more important than monetary value. in fact, respect for human rights and freedoms must be so important that people are not handed over to a state where torture or other forms of inhuman treatment are practised. this is what the statutes of the european union require.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. all eu institutions have a deadline of 2012 to meet when the eu's common asylum system is to be completed. i must admit that i feel both hope and despair about this. are we gonna make it or not? this is based on the joint reception of asylum seekers, the examination of applications and decisions on the future of people. it looks the same in every country when we have this system in place, which is not the case today. today there are almost chasms in the treatment of people in our various member states. we know from the report referred to by commissioner štefan füle that there are wide differences in the way member states receive asylum seekers. we also know that the cost of improving the quality of decisions at first instance is reduced. we are now working on amending the procedures directive and it would therefore be very important for us in parliament to know the concrete costs for different member states in relation to the asylum procedure. i believe that by thoroughly investigating, we reduce the risk of mistakes being made and of people being put in a bind in various ways. it will be interesting to see if the commission can come up with a more precise procedure and show how to reduce the costs of receiving asylum seekers. perhaps this will eventually be the decisive argument to which my esteemed colleague simon busuttil referred, the key to unlocking the fixed positions in which we see the council. i regret with all my heart that the council is so closed in this process. we have had a visit today from the prime minister of hungary, who has taken over the presidency, and i now ask the hungarian presidency to continue the good work begun when belgium was the presidency. it would be a shame if the process were to stop. together, we can actually build a functioning asylum system that has humanity and compassion at its core, and that by 2012. let's keep hoping and aiming that it will work.
mr president, our eyes are currently on the summit between china and the us, because those two economies are seen as being the world’s two biggest economies. we are discussing when china will become the biggest economy, but that is based on a false assumption, because we forget that the european union is the biggest economy, but that china and the us have the bigger markets. this is because of the lack of competition in the european union across borders and within different areas. it is a lack of competition that makes us look upon them, instead of us, as having the self-confidence of being in the lead. that is why it is important, in the future, that the report on competition should also focus on the lack of implementation of the legislation which is already in place, and also on the lack of competition in the european economy. we need to do that in a number of areas. also, to be the leading economy, we need to ensure that we are the most competitive economy. let me tell you a secret: we will never be the most competitive if we do not have competition. state subsidies and regulations hindering new entrants are preventing the european economy from being in the lead. that is why we must ensure that state subsidies are always there only in exceptional cases, where nothing else can be done, or when we can channel them in a way that supports the common good without distorting competition. what we need to ensure is that we can allow for new entrants in as many areas of the european economy as possible. competition is not about out-competing others. it is about allowing big companies to merge and grow bigger and bigger on the global scene, and about allowing new companies to open up to new innovations. we do have a lack here and it is the responsibility of the commission to demonstrate that, and to take action so we can proceed together so that in the future we will be looked upon as the leading economy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank michael gahler for an excellent initiative and an excellent report. i think it is well balanced and takes account of both those who want to exploit natural resources and those who are seriously concerned about the climate consequences. i believe that the best protection for the arctic would be a global climate agreement, but in the meantime we need to develop more short-term solutions to limit the warming of the arctic. i would like to see the european parliament acknowledging that emissions of carbon monoxide are a major contributor to the warming of the arctic. i would therefore also urge the commission to make the necessary amendments to the directive on national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants so that emissions of carbon monoxide are also included.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in times of crisis two strategies are necessary: stop the imminent threat, and take advantage of the opportunities and move forward. in terms of the energy and climate crisis, what is the response from the council? quite frankly, i find it both disappointing and embarrassing. the world outside of europe is facing the energy challenge head on. the us is investing huge amounts of money in green technology. in last week’s state of the union address, president barack obama emphasised energy efficiency and the possibilities offered by green technology. (the president briefly intervened on a procedural matter)president obama even compared these new technologies to the space race and called it our generation’s sputnik moment. now, in the council, where is our ‘put a man on the moon’ project in europe? you do not even dare to discuss a binding energy efficiency target. energy efficiency is the favourite theme of every energy speaker or politician, and the council defers it until 2012. china is investing heavily in research and new technologies. today china has more than 400 photovoltaic companies. ten years ago they had zero per cent of the world market. now they have 23%. ten years ago they had zero per cent of the wind market. they have 50% now. what are we doing in europe? the competition and innovation programme, the cip, is struggling for support and the financing for set, the strategic energy technology programme, is at less than half. that is where we are compared to china and the us. we even have member states which are already planning for a 30% reduction in emissions, like germany, but the council does not dare to move; neither does the commission, by the way. according to a recent joint report from barclays and accenture, the shift to a low-carbon economy is leading to a remarkable development of sustainable low-carbon technologies. so the banks are moving. now, where is the european leadership? the council is haggling about the energy target. nor do you see that the member states are fulfilling the third energy market package and there is even a debate on funding for research and innovation in the long-term budget. that is where we are in europe, and the council shows no leadership at all when it comes to energy, climate, competitiveness and jobs. that is where we stand.
mr president, i would like to thank you. yesterday, as martin schulz has already said, the socialist group in parliament held an alternative summit on energy policy. we did so at a time when more and more families and citizens cannot afford to keep their homes warm, and at a time when the energy-dependent, competitive industry has been suffering. we did so also because the initiatives at the highest political level in the eu have been very few and weak in this area. to quote herbert reul: 'there have been things that have been started that have only stuck on paper and have not progressed from the drawers. our message from the alternative energy summit to tomorrow's eu summit is very simple and clear. act, do something here and now! make sure we get binding energy efficiency targets that are also being met. for example, there are around 190 million buildings in the eu that need heating. investing in them to prevent today's energy leakage would bring both economic gains and new jobs. invest in renewable energy if you don't think we have an infinite supply, and invest in distribution networks that are modern and efficient for all types of energy. provide consumers and citizens with strong and clear rights vis-à-vis energy companies. ensure that the energy market is both transparent and monitorable. just as we don't want a financial market that doesn't work, that is closed and completely unregulated, we don't want an electricity market that works like the financial market did before the crisis. demonstrate with radical initiatives that energy is a matter of social responsibility and political decision-making, not a private matter for individual citizens left to their own devices. we must show that we see, as martin schulz also said, that energy policy is also social policy, industrial policy and future policy.
mr president, first of all, citizens of arab nations have the same rights to democracy and human rights as anyone else. i think it is imperative that the policy of the european union is now supportive of the democratic forces in all countries where we see a change coming. we shall ensure that this change will take the direction of democracy and human rights because we see a change in the whole european neighbourhood. we see it in the eastern partnership countries as well as in the countries of northern africa. it is a requirement that we are decisive, stable and strong in the message of supporting democratic forces, wherever we can find them, and we shall make them as strong as possible. secondly, regarding energy, we need energy efficiency. we have a lot of programmes in order to achieve that. but we also need to secure at a european level common grids and systems for the distribution of gas and electricity. that is one way of using energy sources efficiently. secondly, we also need to ensure that we have the production needed to leave fossil fuels and make it possible to have low prices without carbon dioxide emissions. phasing out nuclear power is hindering us. using our energy sources, together with a common grid and a common energy market, is one way forward.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in the european parliament we have often spoken of respect for democracy and human rights, but the truth is that, and we can admit it tonight, we have often given priority to something else, namely political stability and good business relations. it has now almost come as a thief in the night that in the arab world too people are yearning for freedom. now we talk a lot about transition risks here. of course they exist. i don't suppose anyone here is standing up and cheering for the muslim brotherhood. but we know that in the long run it is freedom and respect for human rights and freedoms that every individual desires and also has the right to achieve. we must now ensure that we in the eu are no longer spectators, letting things go as they are, but rather that we take the initiative and try, as catherine ashton has emphasized here, to help build democracies. it is impressive that the youths have started these revolts, perhaps in part thanks to the communication facilities now available. so i don't think we should be putting too much ideological or religious stuff into these movements at the moment. but whatever they stand for, in the long run freedom and respect for human rights must be given priority by us in this house and by the european parliament in general.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we certainly live in a wasteful society if we call this waste. much of this scrap contains higher levels of gold and silver than a gold and silver mine contains in its ore. this isn't about the cost of taking care of this. it's about pure profit. to reduce our dependence on imports of key raw materials and to avoid the release of heavy metals and other toxins into the environment. it's a pure profit to take care of this waste, it shouldn't even be called a cost. but it's unfortunate that solar cells are excluded, because if we don't include them, you have a competitive advantage by distorting the ones that contain cadmium. it would be better if solar cells were included so that solar cells could have a fair competition so that alternatives to cadmium-containing solar cells can enter the market faster. we also need to vote in favour of the amendments which call for better control of nano-waste. finally, it is important that the member states and the commission now ensure that export rules are tightened up and that they are respected. we must stop the export of waste to poor countries.
mr president, we are now supposed to appoint the three chairpersons for the new financial supervisory authorities. i would bring to the attention of this house that none of those three is a woman. i think it is very strange that the commission cannot come up with one single woman who is competent for one of these authorities. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am extremely disappointed by the paralysis of catherine ashton, the principal representative of the common foreign policy, in the middle east crisis. it should be a matter of course for us in europe to stand clearly alongside those who are fighting for democracy and freedom. our common parliament and our common union are the result of our determination never to have to experience the horrors of totalitarian systems again. with this resolution we want to take responsibility for this and show our willingness to support the struggle for democracy and freedom in the middle east. it is all the more regrettable to see how the commission and the council have failed to take their responsibilities. we see the winds of change sweeping across the middle east. they're crying for help, and it's our duty to help. we need to make a real effort on our part in terms of food, medicine and aid workers. this is needed now! at the same time, we will of course be helping to build democratic societies in tunisia and europe that are based on the rule of law. half the member countries of our union have moved from dictatorship to democracy and freedom. what's so hard about saying the same should apply to the people of the middle east?
in writing. - the importance of ending the long-running dispute over banana tariffs within the world trade organisation (wto), and the need to ratify the 2009 geneva agreement on tariffs and trade; it is also important to point out that, as a result of the previous agreement, the acp countries often became dependent on a one-sided production of bananas, instead of a more versatile production, and thus more exposed. with the phasing-out period we have now decided on, these countries will receive support to explore other production possibilities. it's an important support and we understand that the transition can take time. however, the conversion is necessary because otherwise the acp countries risk remaining in a monopoly of banana production, which despite the preferential treatment has not managed to become competitive in the eu internal market. we would particularly like to stress that it would be more effective to ensure that the eu's agricultural, trade and development policies are coordinated with the objective of free and fair trade, rather than to demand increased compensation from the eu budget for the transition period, if we really want to help the acp countries in their transition.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000. however, we do not support the writings on increasing agricultural aid through posei to eu producers affected by the agreement. we believe that eu agricultural aid should be phased out.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the gue/ngl voted against the services directive in the parliament's vote. we did so because we considered that the core of the services directive is based on the eu's market liberties, where freedom for companies and the free movement of services are more important than trade union and social freedoms. when trade union rights conflict with the rules of the internal market, the rules of the internal market apply. we have seen the consequences of the laval judgment and several other anti-union judgments. the principle of the country of origin was replaced by the freedom to provide services, but we needed a principle of the country of destination, that is, the rules of the country of destination. we put forward such a proposal, but unfortunately it was not passed. i know that the rapporteur, evelyne gebhardt, is keen to protect trade union rights. she said the directive should not undermine public welfare services, but that was not enough to support the gue/ngl report. this is because the report does not mention the anti-union judgments, even though they have changed the whole of labour market policy and have weakened the rights of employees. nor is there any mention of the demands on which the gue/ngl and the socialist group have previously agreed, namely that we need a social protocol in which trade union and social freedoms are not subordinated to market freedoms. that is not what is in the report. and when the commission is to review the way the directive has worked, the trade union has been excluded as a point of contact, which i think should rather be an explicit requirement. the gue/ngl cannot therefore support this report. let me just conclude by saying that trade union and social rights and collective agreements must never be seen as administrative obstacles.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the implementation of the services directive has been a complex process for many member states. in many ways it has led to a more open internal market with all that this entails, but we have also seen examples where it has not worked so well. as a swedish social democrat, i must mention our own situation, where, after the government's implementation in swedish legislation, we have no requirement whatsoever for foreign companies to have a representative on the spot in sweden who has the right to negotiate and conclude collective agreements with a competent trade union. this is a typical implementation problem, since the directive does not prohibit the imposition of similar requirements and we have several examples of countries that have managed to solve the same problem without ending up in the same situation. the swedish labour market model is based on the social partners taking joint responsibility for regulating wages and working conditions. a worker who works in sweden without a collective agreement is therefore at risk of receiving worse conditions and protection than other workers. it is therefore of the utmost importance that there are rules controlling that foreign companies have a representative present in sweden and that this representative has a mandate to negotiate and conclude collective agreements. i hope that this type of problem, which is caused by over-implementation rather than under-implementation, will also be addressed in the report provided for in article 16 (4) of the services directive, which is to be in place before the end of the year.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking mr klaus-heiner lehne for the excellent work he has done on this matter and also commissioner michel barnier for the efficient and successful way in which he has taken this matter forward. as we have heard, the issue has been discussed for many decades and it is now clear that the council will not reach the unanimity required by the treaty to take decisions. many member states have therefore asked for closer cooperation in this area. i would like to emphasize that this is an open cooperation to which all member states are welcome to join whenever they wish. the question we have to decide today is therefore whether or not parliament should give its consent to the council's request for this deepened cooperation. it is my view and that of the liberal group that the european parliament should support this request, as recommended by the rapporteur, mr lehne. protecting an invention or scientific discovery is crucial to turning innovation and knowledge into useful products that in turn create growth and jobs. at present, it is difficult for an individual inventor or a small company to obtain patent protection throughout europe. it's simply too expensive and complicated as we've heard. a us patent today costs about 1 800 euros, while a european patent costs over 20 000 euros, 11 times as much, which is not reasonable. multinational companies with great resources and legal expertise will always be able to do well, regardless of the system. it is europe's individual innovators who pay the price in the current system. it is time that they too were given protection for their gains, so that they can grow up to be the great employers of tomorrow that our union so sorely needs. now is the time. we have no time to lose.
for the alde group. mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission has every reason to be ambitious, given that you, and we too, are facing a very big challenge. we have 20 million smes and together they account for 99% of all european enterprises. we often say that europe's small businesses are the heart of the european economy. that's true, but it can't mean that small businesses shouldn't be allowed to grow big. that is why we need funding, as my colleagues have mentioned and as you, mr antonio tajani, have also said. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as mr bendt bendtsen mentioned, the problems facing european smes have increased. parliament has created a wealth of financial market regulation, most of which has been necessary. however, these rules have increased the cost of borrowing for small businesses. we should be aware of this and we should be careful when proposing different rules. at any rate, we should be aware of the cost in the long run. bendt bendtsen also mentioned the famous basel requirements. commissioner tajani, you speak of simplicity and flexibility and say that this should be the hallmark of eu programmes and funding opportunities. no more bureaucracy and hassle! but do you really think that is what small businesses and their employees think the european union is doing? is it not rather that we are increasing bureaucracy and confusion? i think we need to change our whole approach here. as i said, we have 20 million small businesses in europe, but at the same time we have over 20 million unemployed in europe. we know that exclusion is increasing and we know that poverty is increasing and to deal with this we, and the commission too, must be able to act decisively so that we provide financing opportunities for smes, because that is where jobs are created in europe.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, rapporteur martin callanan, for your very professional and inclusive conduct of the negotiations. but i'm not gonna thank you for the deal. we in verts/ale believe that the commission's original proposal was realistic and good, but unfortunately the settlement is far too weak. it does not help the competitiveness of the car industry, because where will cars be sold in 2020? yes, they will in asia, and there will be a demand for extremely energy-efficient vehicles. so if we want to promote the competitiveness of industry we should set much higher targets. the deal will not benefit the environment either, because even if each truck emits 28 percent less, no one believes that traffic will not increase until 2020. the 30% reduction targets which we are likely to achieve through the negotiations in durban, south africa, will also not be reached. moreover, even the economy does not benefit from it, because nobody really expects the price of gasoline in 2020 to be around 13 kronor or 1.30 euro per liter, but it will of course be much higher. the calculations on which the commission's original proposal was based were therefore much more realistic and even then almost too high to be economically efficient. so unfortunately, competitiveness, the economy or the environment are not going to win this deal. on the contrary, i believe that natural technological progress will actually go beyond what this agreement says. this will be a worse planning horizon for industry, as consumers will certainly demand cars with a co2 emission of 120 g/km or less by 2020. it is also regrettable that we have reduced the fines for those who do not meet the targets. we will not achieve the legislative objective either if we do not achieve what i believe we will achieve by natural development. it's the same with supercredits: it tricks us into thinking that emissions are less than they are if you count an electric car three times. so, unfortunately, we can't support this settlement, but i'd still like to thank everyone involved.
mr president, mr griffin was wrong when he said that this has been a cold winter across the globe. it was actually just some parts of northern europe and some central parts of the usa. globally, 2010 was one of the two hottest years in recorded history. the fact that it is colder here now is also quite predictable, because if the gulf stream is pressed down by meltwater from the arctic, this is an explainable effect. so no, 2010 was a very hot year, climate change is real and the measures we are taking are good for the economy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking rapporteur martin callanan, the shadow rapporteur and all those who have been involved in the work on this directive. we are finally getting a regulation of emissions from light commercial vehicles too, and that is important. the directive now needs to be implemented as soon as possible. at the same time, we did not get as far as many of us wanted to go, and i think we should be honest and open about that. what we are seeing is an environmental and industrial policy decision that has clearly been affected by the economic crisis and by the fact that so many european governments, conservative right-wing governments, have chosen to meet this economic crisis with only cuts and no investment. this results in high unemployment and low demand and affects both the passenger car industry and the light commercial vehicle industry. it is true that this can be called realism, but it is really a question of forced adjustment to the economic crisis and austerity policies. the commission has therefore been more ambitious than even parliament's committee on the environment, and that is not common. i am grateful that this decision does contain a review of the emission targets for 2014. i hope that we will then have a second chance to show that we are serious about the fact that competitiveness and high ambitions in climate policy are not in conflict with each other, but can, on the contrary, help each other to move forward.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. the compromise with the council is a step in the right direction, but unfortunately the scope of the regulation is limited and we therefore chose to abstain. we believe that the exclusion of three member states - luxembourg, malta and cyprus - from the agreement is problematic, as it significantly weakens the overall protection of passengers in europe. we also believe that a distance of 250 km is too long to be the basis for eu legislation, because in practice it means that bus passengers travelling between luxembourg and strasbourg or malmö and växjö would not be protected by the legislation. it's a shame, really. we also oppose the force majeure clause which limits the liability of carriers in the event of cancellation or delay of journeys caused by severe weather conditions or major natural disasters. we believe that this sets a worrying precedent for the forthcoming review of the air passenger rights regulation. however, we welcome the improved rights of disabled people under the agreement and the additional assistance they now receive.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the judgment of the european court of justice makes it clear that belgium and greece have violated articles 3 and 13 of the echr. the two countries are thus guilty of inhuman and degrading treatment of an afghan asylum seeker who was transferred from belgium to greece. unfortunately, this is by no means an isolated case. the judgment of the european court of justice, on the other hand, is prejudicial and therefore important. as the rapporteur of the parliament for the review of the dublin ii regulation, i welcome the judgment. it makes it desirably clear that all member states must suspend their transfers to greece as long as the situation remains as it is. it also shows the need for european solidarity. if we are serious about creating a common asylum system in 2012, we must share the responsibility and help each other. i would like to ask the commission whether the judgment changes the commission's view of the dublin system as the cornerstone of the common asylum system and i would also like to know whether the commission has access to the statistics showing on what basis member states base their decisions on transfers. it's important that we avoid more cases like this one. parliament has a clear view on the dublin regulation and we are now looking forward to the opening of negotiations. we are giving priority to the issue of detention, the solidarity mechanism, the rights of minors and stronger rules on legal remedies. i look forward to your reply, commissioner cecilia malmström, and to our continued good cooperation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank commissioner john dalli, rapporteur marisa matias and the shadow rapporteurs for a very well done piece of work on an important issue, because counterfeit medicines are of course a serious threat to patients' health. particularly serious is the growing number of counterfeits of life-saving medicines. these are medicines for cancer, heart disease and infections, situations where you really need an effective medicine. we are now taking a big step forward in the field of medicines in the eu, but the problem extends beyond the eu's borders. according to the who panel, in many countries in africa and parts of asia and latin america, there are areas where more than 30 percent of the medicines sold may be counterfeit. it is therefore of the utmost importance that cooperation with third countries be strengthened, and hopefully the changes we are now making within the eu will have an impact also on the countries outside our union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. although the crisis in albania has been going on for some time, it is only now that it has really escalated, and this time the eu has acted correctly and immediately. the eu has shown, through the efforts of mr fule, among others, that albania is not alone in its problems. this is a major problem that is damaging to the country's credibility as a country that is seriously approaching the eu. it is not a question of who is right or who is wrong, but of the need to return political dialogue to the realm of political institutions. we must not support any side that is right or wrong and we must be extremely clear that the elections in may must be a signal of which way albania is going, towards the eu or towards further isolation.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is a very urgent and important issue that is being raised in the house, namely the phasing out of loans for fossil fuel projects. i think we should dare to say, as commissioner andris piebalgs did, that the world bank has a very conscious energy strategy. in this context, we can even talk about carrots, and that is a positive thing. it is not just a matter of phasing out, but also, as i said, of phasing in. i would like to reiterate with a certain amount of tenacity that there are opportunities for the eu to take concrete action to help people in developing countries, in africa as well as in asia and latin america. i think the commissioner has heard me speak before about the wood stoves that are now in huts or in simple houses and that are poisoning people. two million people die an untimely death because of the gases found in simple dwellings. there, like the united states and some european countries, we could use simple solar stoves that remove at least 95 percent of the gases. then you would not have to use fertilizer, which we know is needed to grow crops, and you would not have to burn black coal. nor would it be necessary to cut down forests that should not be cut down at all. i would like to emphasize once again that there are opportunities to do something concrete. often when we talk about alternative energy sources we talk about wind and solar energy and of course we should. but there is no concrete evidence of this, even though there are possibilities. let us not leave the eu behind in these matters, but let us help it develop concrete solutions to replace this fossil fuel which we no longer want in either the developed or the developing countries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, a big thank you to rapporteur hannes swoboda, who has done an excellent job. croatia's eu membership is now approaching, but some challenges remain, such as the fight against corruption. croatia has adopted a new and improved regulatory framework, but now the reforms must be implemented. we need effective investigations, prosecutions and court decisions. at the moment, the attention is focused on the case of the conservative former prime minister ivo sanader, who is being held in austria. we applaud the courage shown by journalists and politicians in croatia in exposing corruption in the political elite. the case of ivo sanader is also a moment of truth for the eu, as corruption requires two parties. in view of the allegations that ivo sanader has tried to influence the eu in an undue manner, i have suggested that the olaf should cooperate with croatian investigators to clarify the facts. we don't know if they're real. the ppe group wants to delete this important part of the resolution, but like the greens/efa we call on all political groups to support it. the eu must be proactive and not just blame croatia.
mr president, in the stormy waters of the global economic crisis, it is encouraging to see that croatia is holding a steady course towards membership. the progress so far has been impressive, but i want to emphasise that this positive momentum should now feed into other areas where much remains to be done. there are two points i would like to stress here today. the first is the reform and strengthening of the judiciary. a robust and independent judicial system is absolutely essential in order to fight corruption and to ensure the rule of law in the long term. it is not merely a matter of arresting criminals; it is about dealing with them afterwards. otherwise, efforts to tackle corruption and organised crime will have no effect. the second point i want to mention is the need for society in croatia to build on tolerance. the european project is about reconciliation, and this applies not only between countries – and i applaud the improved relations with croatia’s neighbours – but within them as well. threats of violence against minorities are completely unacceptable. i fully understand how difficult this is, but i am of the firm belief that this would not only boost the accession talks, but also that the effort itself would be of direct benefit to croatian society.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, a year ago we debated here in this chamber what actions were necessary to tackle the global financial crisis. at the time, some of my group’s proposals on economic governance were dismissed as too ambitious and too far-reaching, but today i am happy to note that several of our suggestions are realities. today, however, there is a significant gap between the ambitions declared in the eu 2020 strategy and the financial resources needed to attain the goals. in the draft 2012 budget, the commission needs to clarify, clearly identify and make visible the expenditure related to the strategy. this is also true for the upcoming revision of the multiannual financial framework. i would also like to address the member states directly. there is a clear unwillingness in the council among the finance ministers – including my own, anders borg from sweden – to invest in the future. national budgets need to reflect the council’s stated ambitions, and eu projects need budgets if they are ever to happen. mark my words, without the money in the right place there will be no growth and jobs strategy, and we risk failure. i therefore urge the commission to come forward with more concrete legislative proposals and the member states to show more commitment. we need binding commitments to reach headline targets and legislation in key job-creating areas, such as energy efficiency targets at a common european level. existing initiatives, such as the strategic energy technology plan, the lifelong learning programme and the energy efficiency action plan, have already been adopted, but you in the council failed to bring the money to the table. we need financing of these projects. they all have the potential to create jobs and growth. with our 2020 resolution, the alde group sends a strong message to the council that the current governance structure is too weak, the method of open coordination has failed and the community method should be restored. i applaud the huge majority behind the joint resolution. this is a strong message from the parliament that we need action.
madam president, i would like to thank you. if we are to restart after the economic crisis, it is crucial that people have confidence. richard wilkinson, the british scholar who wrote the book 'the spirit of equality' and who visited the european parliament in brussels last week, has described it very well: it takes equality and it takes small differences to have societies where security and trust reign. this can be directly translated into the europe 2020 strategy. first of all: if we are to succeed, the workers and their trade unions must be respected and involved. instead, the crisis is being used to attack the trade unions, wage earners and the free wage formation, and to attack unemployment benefits and pensions. these attacks must stop. secondly: we women in europe must of course have the same opportunities as men. it is not always reflected in parliament's resolutions, but it must be reflected in reality. thirdly: a modern and strong industry and industrial policy and forward-looking investment, including in infrastructure, must be central to our work going forward. work on climate-smart and resource-efficient processes and products, green energy and green jobs needs to be intensified. how else are we gonna compete? fourthly, the commission we must have a clear commitment to energy efficiency policy. we know that we will not achieve the targets that exist today because they are not binding. we need binding targets because they are crucial to achieving the growth and competitiveness objectives that are the main pillars of the europe 2020 strategy. the low level of ambition and lack of political will is surprising, especially as energy efficiency improvements are one of the best and smartest ways to reduce economic costs for consumers, empower businesses and make a difference.
in writing. - we, the swedish social democrats, voted for the deletion of the reference to direct pension liabilities in the calculation of public debt in paragraph 6. the reason for this is that we see a risk that such a link between pension liabilities and debt calculations could in the short term have a number of undesirable and disproportionate consequences in some member states. in the longer term, however, we believe that each member state should establish procedures to ensure that public pension commitments are fairly reflected in relevant debt projections.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a big thank you to the rapporteur, mr ivailo kalfin, who has done a very solid job. he has worked with both the eib and the rapporteurs from the five different committees of the parliament involved. i really think they have achieved an excellent result. the financial crisis has shown the crucial importance of having stable public institutions to provide credit in key investment areas when private financial markets are in a state of flux. that is why we are now discussing in many different contexts the creation of new financial instruments, but also the development of the instruments we already have, in this case the eib's activities outside europe. i would like to stress three points which i hope will be heard by both the house and the council. first of all: increased coherence with eib activities and eu development and external policy guidelines. secondly: a raising of the ceiling for projects against climate change. thirdly: increased loan ceilings requiring increased guarantee effort by member states. the eib's activities are mainly directed to europe, but if the number of beneficiary countries is counted, most of them are developing countries. that is why we are voting today, among other things, on the requirement of a more rigorous project evaluation, on the requirement that the eib should make a thorough assessment in advance of whether the investment will really contribute to our development objectives. i would urge everyone to support these demands. to achieve this, we also need to increase the transparency of the eib's activities in the countries covered by the external mandate. today, we often have long, complicated chains of financial transactions that make transparency very difficult. we also urge further attention to the eib's own rules against offshore activities. a sound financial system is a prerequisite for a functioning economy in vulnerable parts of the world. i am therefore pleased that we can now also support the oral amendment which i hope will win the support of all and which gives us more resources to invest in countries such as egypt and tunisia. this report is an important step in a direction which i hope the council will also support in the forthcoming negotiations.
in writing. i voted for the report, which is a good report overall. i do not, however, support the view of nuclear power as a clean source of energy.
in writing. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. we welcome the discussion on food prices and price fluctuations, not least on speculation in food commodities and the weakness of competition in certain parts of the food chain, but we do not believe that this resolution adequately describes the problem. the allegations of imminent threats to the european food supply are grossly exaggerated. we also oppose the use of concerns about food price increases to justify a european agricultural policy based on large-scale direct payments and market regulation. the resolution's sole focus on the agricultural sector overlooks the importance of other societal factors in the ability to cope with sharp price increases - we think of the lack of democratic institutions in many countries, income inequality and weak welfare systems.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank anni podimata for a good cooperation. we have reached a compromise, despite our differences. it is now important that we stick to the compromises we agreed at econ. i'm speaking to udo bullman first and foremost. it is good that the report stresses the importance of creating a genuine single market without barriers, which is the basis for european growth. it is urgent to discuss the possibility of financing infrastructure projects using, for example, european project bonds, as well as a possible solution for european carbon taxation to convert european production to sustainable development. it is also important to point out that the member states, those of you who live in my country, must meet the aid targets set in order to finance the necessary projects. unfortunately, only denmark, luxembourg, the netherlands and sweden meet the targets today. i also believe that the financial sector should be involved in paying for the costs incurred by governments and taxpayers in order to save banks in crisis. however, i do not think that the introduction of a financial transaction tax is the solution. my country unilaterally introduced a kind of ftt in the 1980s and the result was only that important parts of the financial sector moved to london. i am aware that one should be careful about comparing sweden with europe, but the financial market is volatile and it is therefore important to learn from the swedish example. there is therefore a high risk that the financial market stabilisation that the ftt is expected to bring will not be achieved if the eu faces a ftt on its own. the alde group believes that a ftt must be global in order to have a positive impact. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for highlighting some interesting political differences in this report. let me also clarify one thing after having listened to this debate, which is that a financial transaction tax will not be paid by anyone other than the customers. it is the same as for electricity, cars or any other goods or services. with the taxes on those, the price is increased for the customer. no banks will pay for this. banks will, in any case, need to be increasing their capital during the coming decade. so, the tax will be directed at customers. that might be good because, of course, we need taxes. but is it a good tax? as my colleague mr schmidt mentioned earlier, we tried it in sweden, where it was called the ‘puppy’ tax. it was more or less the same tax we are discussing now and it was a success – for the city of london! this was because the trade in shares moved to london and the trade in bonds more or less died. that is why i am a little surprised at what has been said in the debate. the difference is between those who want to know what the consequences would be and those who do not want to know the consequences – those who want an impact assessment and those who do not want one. let us think about whether we are not at this point making the mayor of shanghai a very happy person. i believe we should follow the epp line on this issue.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all i want to say i very much welcome the intentions as spelled out by the commission in the draft negotiation guidelines. a clause about consequences in cases of violation of human rights and democratic principles: that is excellent. strengthening dialogue on sector policy to encourage implementation of responsible fisheries: that is also very much needed. unfortunately, we have seen in the existing agreement that this is almost never the case. then we have the points about ensuring eu boats only have access to the surplus of fish not used by local fishermen. on this point, knowing that cephalopods are being seriously overexploited and that eu trawlers compete heavily with local trawlers, i expect that these fisheries will be reduced in the forthcoming agreement. and on the point of taking into account the best available scientific advice on fish stocks, well, the 2010 fao northwest africa small pelagic fish working group concluded that horse mackerel, chub mackerel, sardinellas, sardines, anchovy and bonga were either fully or overexploited. as for demersal fish, the biomass has been reduced by 75% on the mauritanian continental shelf since 2007. in short, what surplus of fish does the commission expect to find in mauritania? lastly, i expect that the eu will still offer sectoral support and partnership to mauritania, even if fishing possibilities are reduced in the name of poly-coherence on development. we cannot overfish these waters, just pay, sweep up the last fish and then go.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, for all too long our seas have not been truly managed but torn between conflicting economic interests. sometimes it is fisheries, sometimes farming, sometimes maritime transport, energy or tourism that sets the agenda. regional sea strategies such as the atlantic or baltic strategies should be a tool to coordinate and to help identify priority objectives. we must remember that some policies such as fisheries and agriculture are mostly decided at eu level, but with environmental policies it is member states that are mostly responsible. i therefore believe that the eu integrated maritime policy has an important role to play. an efficient system of so-called marine spatial planning will be key to prioritising objectives and will guide managers, policymakers and stakeholders. cooperation with other states in the atlantic region is also absolutely essential; in order, for instance, to decrease the amount of microscopic plastic debris, to fight illegal fishing or to ensure that fisheries and environmental regulations are effectively controlled and enforced. we all depend on healthy seas and good environmental status. that will benefit all sectoral interests, not least fisheries and tourism. therefore environmental objectives are not only about the environment, but also about a prosperous atlantic region.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to stress two important points in particular with regard to the atlantic region. the importance of ecologically sustainable fishing and the importance of the eu not renewing the fisheries agreement with morocco, which is contrary to international law. as far as fisheries are concerned, we are today in a situation where over 70 percent of the world's marine fisheries are overfished. this is also true within the eu. but because the eu is the rich part of the world, we import 60% of all the fish consumed in the union. this means that people in poorer countries do not have access to the protein and nutrition rich food that fish provide. the second point i would like to raise is again the significance of the eu not renewing the fisheries agreement with morocco, which supplies the eu with fish from the atlantic coast outside western sahara. morocco has occupied western sahara since 1975 and today 160,000 people live in refugee camps in western sahara. the international court of justice in the hague has ruled that the moroccan occupation of western sahara has no legal basis and that morocco has no right to the natural resources of western sahara. the commission's strategy for the atlantic region must therefore give high priority to the issue of ecologically sustainable fishing. the strategy must also include the eu once and for all respecting international law and not renewing the fisheries agreement with morocco.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mrs christel schaldemose for a very good report. i would like to stress further that more resources and increased sample checks on product safety are needed. as a consumer, you can constantly read in newspapers and other media about when consumer organisations have carried out tests and always found products that do not meet the requirements. it undermines consumer confidence and can sometimes be life-threatening, especially for children who are very dependent on the safety of products sold in the store. perhaps the most important thing to me is the lack of chemical safety. many products today contain chemicals that are already banned in the eu. this is something that is very difficult for the individual consumer to see in the product. here, member states need to take stronger action and cooperate more to remove these products from the market and deter operators from placing products on the market if they contain dangerous chemicals.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think we can all agree that it was very confusing with the different recommendations in different member states. for example, we had a visit from the swedish minister for the environment and public health, who was then president of the council of ministers of the european union, to deal with this issue on the same day as we had the president of the european agency for the prevention of infectious diseases there, and they said two very different things. one recommended that children be vaccinated and the other said that it was dangerous for children to be vaccinated. it was very confusing and very contradictory for parents looking for a safe message. but there were also very wide differences in the way the issue was handled in practice in the member states. in my country, there was a huge demand for vaccines, which led to very tumultuous situations outside of health centers. health centers that were open lacked vaccines, health centers that were closed had large stocks of vaccines. we need to look more at the implementation itself.
mr president, i would like to thank you. international trade plays a very important role in the development of the world and has a very great impact on our agriculture. perhaps one of the most important things that we have to look at is the developments in egypt, tunisia and libya. one of the most important things the eu can do here is to open up its markets to, say, oil to really help the people of these countries to see a future in their own countries. those who are concerned about the flow of refugees into the eu should also make sure that the eu's trade policy towards these countries is adapted so that people actually see a future in these countries and do not have to flee. i would also like to add that it is a little tragicomic when you come from a country which has much higher animal welfare standards than the eu to hear about the european high animal welfare standards. from my country's point of view, the eu has very low animal welfare standards, not least in the case of chicken and pigs, and there is still a lot to be done in that area.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very well-written report, much better than many of the others we are voting on in this house. i also agree that the wording on gmos and the total ban is very unfortunate in this report. they go against the whole report, but they are also very unhappy in substance. i would also like to highlight the positive climate aspects that would result from growing more protein crops in the eu. there are reasons for doing so. but there is also a very big issue that seems to remain unresolved throughout this report, namely that we are eating more and more meat. the more money we make, the more meat we eat, the more climate impact we have, and the more protein crops we consume. what are we doing about this big question, which is the burning core of all this reasoning? this is a question for the future, both for us and for the european commission.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. one hundred years of struggle for equality between women and men i think it is important that we also think today of the pioneers who started the struggle for equality between women and men a hundred years ago and who have paved the way for the progress that we can see has been made. i would also like to thank all my colleagues, all the ngos, all those who continue to fight for equality. we are going to discuss the situation of women in the eu, but i think it is important that we also show our solidarity today with the women who are now showing the great courage to take part in the struggle for democracy and justice in the streets and squares of other countries. i think we should think about them today, too. the reports we are discussing here highlight the unequal labour market, where women have precarious jobs and are discriminated against on average by 17%. only 6 out of 10 women in europe are in paid employment and when they are in employment, it is often in precarious part-time jobs that they cannot make a living. this is not surprising, since there are strong forces opposing the expansion of childcare, etc., which provides women with the conditions for gainful employment. equal opportunities in the labour market means we have to have the maternity leave directive, which i hope also means paternity leave. i hope that we will soon be able to discuss parental insurance, where men and women share the same responsibility for the maintenance of the family, but also for the children. if women in the eu worked as much as men, wealth would increase by more than a quarter. we cannot afford to give up women in the workforce. quote is required. i believe that quotas are a necessary instrument in a society where only 3% of large companies are run by women. i can compare the use of quotas to antibiotics. i don't like the overuse of antibiotics, but when someone is sick, i'm very glad that they exist. and that's a little sick in a society where only 3 percent of women are in the top management of the big companies. quotas are therefore a necessary instrument for correcting the flaws in society.
madam president, i would like to thank you. godfrey bloom, you're not a commitment nut if you ask for and believe that parental insurance is good. it is only necessary to look at those member states which have a well-developed parental insurance system. the nordic countries, such as sweden, also have the highest employment rate of women. it is thus proved that good parental insurance means that we also have higher employment rates for women, and also for men, of course. parental insurance is good for a gender-equal labour market. women can also contribute to the prosperity of the eu. (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. − the report on innovative finance addresses a number of important aspects. unfortunately, it contains a proposal for europe to unilaterally introduce a financial transaction tax. i think that the swedish example of unilaterally introducing a kind of financial transaction tax in the 1980s, which resulted in the majority of stock, bond and option trading moving to london, should be taken into account so that we do not repeat the same mistake at european level. i believe that there is a great risk that the stabilising effects of the financial market will not be achieved if the eu is faced with such a tax on its own. there is a high risk that equity, bond and option trading will shift to less transparent and open markets outside europe. it does not create a better overview of the financial market. i therefore voted against the amendment which proposed such a european tobin tax, but despite the fact that this proposal was adopted, i chose to vote for the report in the final vote. this choice was because, as the europe 2020 negotiator of the alde group, i would otherwise have risked undermining the group's negotiating position on issues that are important to us, such as the importance of creating a real internal market, enabling the financing of infrastructure projects with european project bonds and a possible solution for a european carbon tax.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the eu should be very active in promoting the establishment of such a system. if an international agreement should prove politically impossible in time, the option of introducing a transaction tax only within the eu should be carefully considered. this should be based on a balanced impact assessment. the commission is currently preparing an analysis, but this has not prevented its representatives from anticipating events on several occasions by expressing a clear negative opinion on a tax at eu level. this is not acceptable in our eyes. to send a clear signal to the commission that the matter should be taken seriously and that the process must be unconditional, we have therefore voted in favour of the amendment which specifically talks about the introduction of a european tax. it is very important that an objective and well-developed basis for decision-making on this issue is now being established.
the report on innovative financing addresses a number of important aspects, such as the importance of creating a genuine internal market as the basis for european growth, the importance of enabling the financing of european infrastructure projects through european project bonds, and a possible solution for a european carbon tax, in order to convert european production to sustainable development. it is also important that the report points out that the eu member states must live up to the aid targets set. we nevertheless chose to abstain in the final vote because we do not think it is a good idea for europe itself without other countries doing the same in the face of a financial transaction tax. we believe that the swedish example of unilaterally introducing a kind of financial transaction tax in the 1980s, which resulted in the bulk of stock, bond and option trading moving to london, should be taken into account so that we do not repeat the same mistake at european level. we believe that there is a great risk that the stabilizing effects of the financial market, which are hoped to be brought about by a financial transaction tax, will not be achieved if the eu independently imposes such a tax. the risk of stock, bond and option trading moving to less transparent and less open markets outside europe is too great. it does not create a better overview of the financial market and it would also undermine the common european financial market surveillance that we have developed.
in writing. - in today's vote on equality between women and men in the eu in 2010, i voted against. this on the very international women's day! several of my colleagues in the epp group and in other groups also voted against the own-initiative report - all with their reasons. let me briefly explain mine. the most problematic points for me are those which advocate binding targets for member states on gender quotas. in addition to the fact that this is an infringement by the eu of the member states' right to self-determination, i am also against quotas in substance. as if women shouldn't be judged on their personal merits, just like men! the text also contains language on minimum incomes, which of course must be a matter for the social partners to deal with, and not for politicians, either at national or international level. in sum, the points i have mentioned above led me to vote against the report, which was nevertheless adopted by the european parliament.
the president of the council. - madam president, this is officer. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, you will vote tomorrow on the resolution on the process of european integration in montenegro. i am very grateful for the commitment of the european parliament to keeping the european union open. at the same time, you have an important role to play in winning the public opinion of the member states on the issue of enlargement, on the issue of conditional enlargement. the present resolution, which will be adopted tomorrow, also reaffirms the recognition of this responsibility. let me tell you, the board is fully committed. in accordance with the renewed enlargement consensus endorsed by the european council, the council confirmed in its conclusions of 14 december 2010 that the union strongly supports the continuation of the enlargement process in the western balkan countries on the basis of the agreed principles and conclusions. the hungarian presidency of the council of the eu is also deeply committed to this objective. we would like to thank you for the good work you have done, for contributing with this resolution to consolidating the achievements of montenegro, which are very much needed throughout the accession process. montenegro's european perspective has been reaffirmed on a number of occasions. the country's stable position, its european orientation, which is supported by all political parties and the majority of citizens, and the high degree of agreement between the different ethnic groups are all characteristics that make montenegro one of the stabilising factors in the western balkans. it should be remembered that montenegro achieved visa liberalisation, the conclusion of the stability and association agreement and candidate status in 12 months. these are significant results, which demonstrate that the european perspective is the driving force behind a country's preparation. the union should therefore recognise the commitment and achievements of the candidate countries. progress will allow the country to move forward on its european agenda, to make new commitments and to set new expectations. to this end, delegations from the eu institutions and the member states at different levels and in different fields now meet on a daily basis. we therefore welcome the current actions of montenegro, in particular the recently adopted action plan of the government in response to the recommendations of the commission's opinion, and the methodology used, namely that the government has extensively consulted civil society before the action plan was developed. let me quickly list the areas key priorities, as we call them where progress is needed. these are also mentioned in the commission's november 2010 opinion. these include consolidating the rule of law, advancing administrative reform and strengthening administrative capacity, adopting constitutional electoral law and increasing media freedom. this is not only important from a legal point of view, but also a test of the political maturity of the authorities. it is also essential to guarantee the legal status of displaced persons and to respect their rights, and to fight against organised crime and corruption. we also expect montenegro to make significant progress in this area. in order to take any further steps in the stabilisation and association process in general and in particular to open accession negotiations, it is very important that montenegro makes progress and further efforts in these areas. it is essential that it delivers on its commitments and delivers tangible results. members of the house! montenegro plays an important role in regional cooperation. it works closely with its neighbours and we sincerely welcome the constructive role it has played in promoting stability and good neighbourly relations in the region, in particular as the chair of the south east european cooperation process. montenegro is also hosting the new regional cooperation council working group on culture and society, the cetinje parliamentary forum. integration is unthinkable without regional cooperation, and montenegro is exemplary in this respect. the resolution to be adopted by parliament is a real record of the results. a correct description of the situation and a useful guide to the tasks for the candidate. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have been actively involved in the preparation of this document. finally, i would like to encourage montenegro, the montenegrin authorities, to continue their reform efforts and to strive to meet the expectations of their own citizens.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is an honour for me to address the european parliament on the european integration process of montenegro. let me start where the presidency has ended in congratulating the rapporteur for montenegro, mr charles tannock, on his report, and expressing my gratitude to all honourable members who have contributed. parliament plays a key role in enlargement policy. i believe that, with the concerted action of all the european institutions, we can achieve more. montenegro’s overall progress towards fulfilment of the criteria for european union membership has been remarkable. there is a growing political consensus. the country has made important progress in putting in place its legal and institutional framework. it is also strongly committed to regional cooperation. there is a solid record of structural economic reforms and progress in most areas of the aquis. the european council decision to grant candidate status to montenegro is a recognition of these achievements and a strong signal which confirms the credibility of the european union’s enlargement policy. the country has entered a decisive stage. candidate status is a great responsibility for montenegro. tangible results are needed in order for montenegro to be able to move to the next stage of european integration. i am confident that the european parliament resolution will send the right message to montenegro of acknowledging past achievements, but also the strong expectation that the reform process will be pursued with determination and that all the key challenges on montenegro’s path to european union membership will be thoroughly addressed. i met the new prime minister of montenegro, dr igor lukšić, last week. his commitment to pursuing the reform process and his strong determination to meet the key priorities set out in the commission opinion are encouraging. on 17 february, after public consultations with civil society and talks with the commission services, the government adopted an action plan to address the priorities. it is now crucial to focus on implementation and establish a solid track record. the key priorities set out in the opinion are a significant, but achievable, challenge that requires the involvement and commitment of all actors in montenegro. previous enlargements have shown the importance of addressing key issues under the political criteria, as well as chapter 23, early in the accession process. early solid achievements in this area in montenegro, notably in the politicisation of the public administration, the strengthening of the independence of the judiciary and the effective fight against corruption and against organised crime, will later ensure smooth negotiations and integration into the european union. montenegro must improve its electoral framework, in line with the recommendations of the osce/odihr and the venice commission. the parliament needs strengthening, which is an important priority for both the commission and the european parliament. effective compliance with european standards in the field of human rights is essential, in particular regarding freedom of expression and relations with civil society. further efforts are needed to strengthen anti-discrimination policy, notably gender equality and the effective protection of vulnerable groups. sustainable solutions are needed for displaced persons. other shortcomings identified in the opinion and in your draft resolution also need to be addressed. montenegro needs to strengthen its administrative capacity and to upgrade its preparation in a number of areas of the european union acquis. the future of montenegro undeniably lies in the european union and we should act responsibly. the credibility of our enlargement policy is based on the enlargement countries respecting the conditionality towards the european union and the european union respecting its commitment towards the enlargement countries.it is in all our interests to ensure that the progress of montenegro towards the european union is based on solid achievements and concrete results. montenegro’s performance this year will be assessed in the enlargement package due in october 2011. only when the commission has established that montenegro has achieved the necessary degree of compliance with the accession criteria, in particular the seven key priorities set out in the opinion, will it be in a position to recommend opening negotiations.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. as the epp's shadow rapporteur for montenegro, i would first like to thank charles tannock for the good cooperation and the very good and balanced report. i would also like to take the opportunity to ask my colleagues to support the report before us tomorrow. in particular, i would like to emphasise that i very much welcome the decision of the european council of december 2010 to grant montenegro the status of a candidate country for eu membership. at the same time, it is important that we do not stop where we are, but move quickly towards the goal, which is eu membership for montenegro. the political and economic stability that montenegro has continuously demonstrated since independence is great. montenegro is often described - and we heard this from the council today - as a success story. like charles tannock, i too find it regrettable that candidate status has been excluded from the right to open negotiations. i therefore believe that the commission should open accession negotiations with montenegro as soon as possible and set a date for the start of such negotiations. it is clear that the reform process must continue in areas such as the judiciary and the fight against conflicts of interest in public administration and that priorities recommended by the commission must be met, but i would nevertheless like to commend the montenegrin government for the positive reforms it has succeeded in implementing so far. today we have the montenegrin ambassador here in the plenary, and i hope and look forward to the day when we can welcome not only the montenegrin ambassador, but all of montenegro to the eu and the representatives of montenegro to this parliament.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. thanks to charles tannock for constructive cooperation, also on behalf of the s&d group. it is gratifying that montenegro can now begin the process of joining the eu. i agree that the commission should start negotiations as soon as possible, provided, of course, that montenegro continues to move towards the eu benchmarks. the accession of montenegro is a strong signal of the eu's commitment to the future of the whole of the former yugoslavia. montenegro, like croatia, can show the way to eu membership for the others. closeness to the eu is a key factor for both prosperity and stability in the region, that is clear. montenegro is a small, new and peaceful country with a strong commitment to regional cooperation. it has good relations with its neighbours and is therefore well placed to succeed in future accession negotiations. but there are areas that require vigorous reform. the judicial and administrative capacity to shape a fully-fledged society of law has been strengthened, but more is still needed. there is widespread corruption and organised crime and the judicial system needs massive continued strengthening to meet eu requirements. i have tabled a number of amendments to emphasize that montenegro also needs to strengthen the position of women, safeguard media freedom, guarantee the fundamental rights of workers and minorities and, above all, develop civil society. we should not forget that these are also crucial areas in the forthcoming eu negotiations. i welcome montenegro as a member of the european union as soon as possible.
madam president, i would like to thank you. many of us who are taking part in this debate have started by saying 'finally'. this is a good indication of the way industrial policy has been viewed in the public debate and in politics for quite some time. but now industrial policy is back anyway, and i think that is clear from this report as well. the services sector remains important, but it is also becoming clear that its development depends to a large extent on our having a strong industrial production, a strong industrial sector. it's all connected. industrial policy is therefore central to one of the most important policy issues: work for all, full employment. but if modern industrial policy had stayed at that level, nothing would have happened in the last 25 years. modern industrial policy is so much more. today, it is also about contributing to the great transition the fundamental transition to environmental and climate sustainability and not being a hindrance to it, but contributing to such a transition. it is part of the competitiveness of industry today, it is obvious when you look at the investments made in some of our competitors. the raw materials are part of this. a prerequisite for industry, but at the same time also part of the transition. it's about everything from energy efficiency, it's also about resource management and recycling, for example in the form of what we call urban mining. another key issue for a modern and sustainable industry is recurrent training programmes. we will not, and we should not, compete with low wages and poor working conditions, but with skilled and knowledgeable people who work and who want to work in industry.
author. − madam president, i sometimes wonder if europe’s response in the face of every challenge is to freeze in fear of china and call for trade sanctions and state intervention. a successful eu raw materials strategy must be aimed at encouraging free trade. it should contain sustainable and resource-efficient management, innovation and access to raw materials for european companies. it should not involve stockpiling raw materials with taxpayers’ money. europe is increasingly dependent on a small number of key resources and is falling behind in the race to secure alternative sources, but it is private companies, not politicians, who can determine the need to build up stockpiles. if it is an efficient use of resources, they will do so. what we need instead is a comprehensive raw materials strategy that involves all aspects of access to rare earths. this includes trade, research and innovation, recycling and development of transport and infrastructure to enable development of domestic sources. we need better management of raw materials supply within europe and effective measures to encourage recycling and reducing waste. europe is rich in natural resources and is also strategically placed with its proximity to the resource-rich barents region. with minerals, metals and forests, northern europe has the potential to respond significantly to eu raw material needs in a sustainable way. we also need to encourage innovation and research into alternative solutions and find ways around materials that european companies find too expensive. the eu strategy must be based on free trade and must ensure that both developed and developing countries can benefit from the sustainable supply of raw materials. we should also use the aid-for-trade mechanism. europe needs actions aimed at innovation and eliminating trade barriers in third countries, not a policy of stockpiling rare and critical raw materials and undermining democracy abroad. we need suggestions from the commission regarding raw materials and rare earth metals. we are still looking for these suggestions.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. commissioner, what is it? i think this debate shows how important it is that the raw materials strategy has a long-term and broad-based approach. you know, rare earth metals are rare in the marketplace, but not in the ground. there are a number of reasons for this. they simply haven't been economically viable to mine in all the places we know they exist. there have also been environmental and occupational health and safety conflicts. what the eu should do is invest very heavily in research and development. the eu should invest in resource efficiency, in recycling, recycling, recycling, as has been said here all evening. this requires everything from intelligent and simple and smart collection strategies to eco-design that makes it easy to take that battery out of the device to recycle it. but it is also about moving away from our colonial reflexes in cooperation with other countries in other parts of the world. we haven't done very well with that yet.
mr president, i have three points. firstly, deficits are not caused by currencies. they are caused by governments and overspending. i think that is perhaps bad news for mr bloom, who spoke here earlier, because if he was right and the responsibility was that of the currencies, that would be extremely bad news for the pound or the dollar, where we have the biggest deficits globally today. the responsibility lies with governments. that is why it is important that we secure and structure the stability mechanism in a way that helps member states get out of difficulties, but also helps to ensure that member states do not get into difficulties. that is why i think it is important that the financing of the stability mechanism is structured in such a way that those who are exposing us to bigger risks by having bigger deficits should be obliged to pay more in order to contribute to the mechanism. then you have some kind of polluter-pays principle and you also have a preventive action in the stability mechanism, contributing to the stability of the euro as such. that is why i think we need not only to discuss the formal structure of the stability mechanism, but also how we finance it. we need to secure stability in a long-term perspective as well as in the short-term perspective.
in writing. - we have chosen to support this budget report. the commission is also very pleased that the council has taken the initiative of adopting a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. at the same time, however, we are very critical of the investment of 549.6 million in total to extend the so-called kad building in luxembourg, and we do not share the rapporteur's hope that this will lead to savings in the long term. the only sensible thing would be to place the european parliament and its work in one place.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. the report takes a critical and questioning stance towards a number of budget proposals with high costs and advocates that next year's parliamentary budget should max increase with the rate of inflation, i.e. in real terms equivalent to plus or minus zero compared to 2011. we also want to emphasize that we agree with the report's extremely sceptical and critical attitude towards the project of establishing a house of european history. in these times of heavy pressure on national budgets, we consider it inappropriate to start such a project, which is likely to be very costly. we would point out, however, that we would have preferred to see an even more restrictive approach to parliament's 2012 budget, with proposals also for savings and redistributions to finance new needs. the commission is advocating an increase of up to 1% in the administrative budgets of the eu institutions for next year, an initiative which we believe should be supported. an increase of up to 1% would, in practice, reduce the overall size of parliament's budget in relation to inflation.
in writing. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. but we believe it is important that the fact that turkey is criticised for not recognising the genocide should not become a weapon in the hands of the unfortunately xenophobic forces which want to keep turkey out of the eu at all costs. we believe it is important to continue negotiations on membership with turkey and to put pressure on it to meet the copenhagen criteria. it will force them to live up to the demands of human rights and to a more progressive view of minorities such as the kurdish, armenian and assyrian and syrian peoples, who we believe might be the biggest beneficiaries of turkey's membership of the eu, a genuinely democratic and pluralistic eu. that is why we have abstained on amendment no 38.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the human rights situation in iran is widespread and appears to be increasing. there has been a clear deterioration in most areas, especially in the area of freedom of expression. there are threats of execution of a number of high-profile death sentences, persecution of intellectuals, students and dissidents, torture, continued discrimination against women and ethnic and religious minorities. the list could go on and on. this is something that was unpleasantly clear already in the 2009 elections and continues to be unpleasantly clear. all of us who meet on various occasions with official representatives of iran are also met with more hardness and more intransigence. in this context, i would like to say that i think that the priorities that catherine ashton has outlined - human rights, strong sanctions and the nuclear programme - are real and clear priorities. but the severity of the eu's response to iran must be made more severe and clearer. we also need to be more intransigent in our approach to human rights violations. there comes a time when a revised tone of voice is actually a betrayal, and i think that's where we are today in relation to iran.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr bastiaan belder for a very good report. i am a member of the delegation for iran and i receive letters from the iranian regime addressing me in the name of god, which i find extremely unpleasant. under this cover, they are succeeding in creating what we can clearly read in belder's report as a hell on earth. it's unlikely and it's amazing. now i have a little idea and a dream that i would like to convey to catherine ashton in this context: when we build a big new house for the foreign office, would you possibly have room for a small office with a small group of people who collect information about the people who are the torturers, who are the executioners and who are the judges in these grotesque societies that we have around us, so that they know that we are monitoring their behaviour in detail?
mr president, i would like to thank you. by demanding lower wages, the commission has undermined the bargaining power of the social partners and has influenced directly and indirectly the wage formation, which is expressly outside the commission's competence. this is nothing less than a frontal attack on the influence of the social partners and goes against the bill of rights, of which the right to enter into collective agreements is a part. nor is this an isolated incident confined to ireland, but is repeated time and again. by talking about unit labour costs instead of wages, the commission is trying to circumvent the limits set by the treaty. the european commission has simply redrawn the map, drawn a new map and a new set of rules, in which the member states and the social partners are now deprived of their tasks and are dictated to in contravention of all the rules. this is what the fight is about, and it's only just begun. by acting in this way, the eu is also moving further and further away from popular acceptance and legitimacy, which are usually keywords when we discuss the future of the eu. we hear that there are ugly fish - also in this parliament - who are already starting to fish in these murky waters. i don't think that's the point.
the oral amendment is to delete one word, and that word is 'and'. i read the text in english and then explain why: whereas there has been a remarkable deepening of relations between iran and turkey;the next word and is deleted and the recital continues whereas iran is using its state and non-state allies syria, hezbollah and hamas, and also the muslim brotherhood, to destabilise the region. we want to remove the word 'and' in between because we don't want to link the relationship between turkey and iran to the relationship that iran has with hezbollah and hamas.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats support this report as a whole. at the same time, however, we consider that the wording of the text on the question of a consolidated eurobond market is too far-reaching. we regard the creation of a eurobond system as an interesting and promising idea, but believe that it needs to be thoroughly investigated before it can be considered to proceed with actual implementation. the knowledge base is currently too weak to make any definitive decisions at this stage.
in writing. − we rejected the proposal as a whole as we do not believe it solves the problems. we agree with etuc when they say that the proposed changes will be ‘...paving the way to interfere with social dialogue and intervene in collective bargaining systems all over europe’. furthermore we disagree with the choice of the simplified treaty revision procedure. we believe that the ordinary treaty revision procedure should be used in order to allow for a proper and in-depth discussion about the proposed stability mechanism and other possible changes to the treaties, for example a social progress clause. finally, we urge the member states to enable referenda in all member states on proposals for treaty change.
mr president, i would like to thank you. critics of the euro in my country say that greece and ireland show that the euro does not work. they say it's better to stay out of the business. they're wrong! the euro has created stability, low inflation and, in fact, millions of new jobs in its ten-year history. the permanent crisis mechanism will act as a last resort if a country is in serious economic trouble. the euro is not the cause of the crisis, as the commissioner very rightly points out. on the contrary, the single currency is an important part of the solution, and here the point also comes for a country like sweden. i therefore deeply regret that there is no majority in the swedish parliament for sweden to participate in the europe pact. it diminishes the influence of my country. if sweden wants to be part of the inner core of the eu, as the swedish government says it wants, it cannot sit outside the meeting rooms. denmark, the danish government and the danish parliament agree to the euro. sweden should be able to do the same.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. one of the world's most economically and technologically advanced countries has been thrown into a humanitarian disaster. first of all, it is a disaster for all the people affected. the images from japan are heartbreaking. all the support and all the assistance that can be imagined needs to be sent to them. but what this disaster also shows is the vulnerability of all modern societies. what happened in japan could happen in other parts of the world, including here. even in countries with extremely high security standards, security is proving to be fraudulent. we can't afford to ignore nuclear power now. in europe, while some countries do not have nuclear power, a number are extremely or completely dependent on it. some are building new nuclear power plants, some are decommissioning. that is where we are - that is, the member states with the vulnerability look different, but we have this in common nonetheless and energy supply requires long-term thinking. we simply need to re-engineer our energy systems to reduce risk and unilateralism. we must give serious priority to research and development, investment and the development of long-term sustainable and renewable energy sources. here europe has a great untapped potential which must be countered by the fact that the construction of new nuclear power stations will make us dependent on them for many decades to come. what we should do now instead is to have a serious discussion about raising the eu's renewable energy targets and ambitions and to decide as soon as possible on binding energy efficiency targets and a long-term plan for our energy supply a transition to renewable energy. the stress test of nuclear power stations in all countries is therefore needed jointly, but then there is the need for longterm thinking.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the images of the massive earthquake and tsunami in north-eastern japan are terrifying; our thoughts and heartfelt sympathies go to those who have lost homes and loved ones. of course we welcome the eu help package. in fukushima, personnel are still working at the site of the nuclear power plant to prevent further radiation contamination, and this of course has to be assessed thoroughly all over the european union – including in brussels. i welcome the stress test proposed by the commission, but i think it has to be added that we cannot just have a stress test based on technology and geography. we need two other steps. one is on the security culture, where it obviously has been impossible to envisage multiple risks. the second is on the institutional framework, including an oversight of the relationships between the national regulatory bodies and the nuclear companies. furthermore, authorities should not be allowed to audit themselves. finally, as we evaluate the consequences of the disaster, we should base our discussion on information and knowledge. radical measures might be necessary – i would think are necessary. but one thing should be obvious: we have to reform our energy production and to rely instead on renewable energy and we have to do it now.
mr president, the compromise we have in front of us is a very good step in the right direction. i welcome the consensus we have reached on the right to withdraw and on an information requirement for distance and off-premises contracts. however, we must have the courage to go further, in particular on remedies for lack of conformity, guarantees and unfair clauses. i have listened carefully to the arguments for years, but my vision has been and remains full harmonisation. i am convinced that common rules are win-win for consumers and business. transparency, legal certainty and competition increase free choice for the consumer and decrease red tape for business. the challenge is to strike the right balance. for high consumer protection and low costs for business the consumer rights directive should not become a tug of war between market and people. nor should we live under a false assumption that national rules protect consumers, while common european rules benefit business. that picture is wrong. there is no way round the fact that extra costs for smes will become extra costs for consumers. throughout the process the ppe group has been flexible and constructive. the left has been rigid and obstructive, reducing the debate to a nitpicking exercise of comparative law, bargaining between national rules. i believe instead that the common interest of the european people should prevail. minimum harmonisation and national exceptions, as advocated by the social democrats, simply hinder citizens from taking full advantage of a common market. at a time of crisis, faced with rising protectionism, it is as easy as it is irresponsible to be populist. i fully support andreas schwab in his wonderful job and i wish him well in the negotiations ahead. i conclude by saying that the consumer rights directive is a milestone in the relaunch of the single market to inject confidence, to boost growth, competitiveness and the jobs that the european people are looking forward to.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. first of all, i'd like to thank francesca balzani. she has chosen a very wise starting point for her report. it is concise, concrete and constructive, and it clearly focuses on the most important issues. what are the most important issues? to show that the eu 2020 strategy is not just talk but a serious attempt to make the eu play a concrete role in growth and jobs. the eu budget is controversial despite its very small size, about 1% of gdp or just over 2% of total public expenditure. but it can play a strategic role in investing in projects that member states cannot manage on their own or that require solidarity in europe. it is about research and development, transport and energy infrastructure and the realisation of the real potential of the single market - a well-functioning eu labour market and a solid basis for growth and competitiveness. but these joint projects cost money. it is therefore now up to the member states and the council, in particular, to prove this. will eu2020 become a reality or will the lisbon strategy meet its fate good ideas buried in a drawer? i believe that the 2012 budget will be absolutely crucial to the answer to that question.
in writing. - we share the committee's view that, in the light of the difficult economic situation in the union, it is more important than ever to ensure the correct implementation of the eu budget, the quality of the use of appropriations and the optimal use of existing community funding. we welcome the call for ambitious proposals on the eu's own resources and believe that the focus should generally be on the budgetary appropriations that are essential to delivering on the europe 2020 strategy. we also supported the amendment which called for every increase in budget lines to be matched by a reduction in another line. however, as this amendment was rejected and the adopted text also contains the claim that a reduction in the eu budget would 'harm european solidarity', we have decided to abstain from voting in the final vote.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would first like to thank the rapporteur, sylvie guillaume, for her excellent and very hard work on this report, which is a major part of the asylum package. there must be legal and fair asylum procedures in all eu member states. the eu will never have a functioning asylum system if we do not have common minimum standards for how applications are processed and what rights asylum seekers have in this process. these rules must of course not only be on paper but also applied in practice in a consistent manner throughout europe. that said, i find it extremely regrettable that the commission has announced its intention to put forward a new watered-down proposal which is closer to what many governments in the council want. this attitude of the commission and the mood in the council make the vote on this report all the more important. the european parliament must now send a clear signal that we at least support the right to seek asylum and believe that everyone deserves a fair and thorough examination of their application. the overall approach proposed, to invest resources in the first instance procedure, is entirely correct and will facilitate both the asylum seeker who can get information more quickly and the member states who are spared the cost of further trials due to the fact that the first examination has not been of a sufficiently high quality. there are a number of good amendments to the proposal, but i would like to highlight above all an amendment which ensures that the needs of particularly vulnerable applicants, not least unaccompanied refugee children, are taken into account. the clear definition of family members proposed will also improve the situation, not least for many minors.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the number of products covered by this legislation and which can be used for both civilian and military purposes is far greater than we first think. it covers everything from trucks to aircraft turbines to telecommunications equipment. i therefore think it is important to point out that direct reference to the arms industry is often misleading here. this also makes this legislation important for simplifying and harmonising the european way of handling products which can be used for both civilian and military purposes. it must be rigorous, predictable and clear, but also harmonised. every time i hear about a swedish company being denied exporting to another country on the basis of eu legislation and then discovering that a french company, for example, can very well export the same products, the eu has failed. we must remember that trade is fundamentally good. i am thinking, for example, of telecommunications equipment, which means so much to democratic movements around the world. this proposal must not complicate and bureaucratize civilian trade. i therefore oppose the proposal to introduce an ex ante declaration. modern just-in-time delivery, service contracts, etc. make it very difficult for completely legitimate products that we want to export and see more of. most companies know what these products are for. even if they apply an ex post notification, they know that they will be punished if they export anything. i think it is important to simplify trade. make sure that there is strict, clear and harmonised legislation, but make it simple. it is very bad practice to have an ex ante control of everything that is exported. this makes it more difficult to send important equipment, such as telecommunications equipment, to countries that need it.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs and colleagues on the committee on equality for their strong commitment to combating violence against women. before tomorrow's vote and to start the debate, i could have mentioned the number of women affected, i could have mentioned the number of women murdered as a result of this deadly violence. i shall not do that, but i will try to convey some pictures of this violence before the vote so that every member will feel that right now i have an opportunity to combat this violence by voting yes to the report tomorrow. imagine a mother sitting with her children, reading a bedtime story. suddenly the door is opened, the husband/father is at the door, and both the children and the mother immediately understand what is about to happen. the children pull the covers over their heads, cover their ears, close their eyes, try to shut out what they know is going to happen. they hear the father screaming, they hear the kicking and the punching, and they hear the mother moaning. it's a picture of this violence. another picture: a woman who has lived through years of threats, abuse and abuse finally decides to leave the relationship to build a new life for herself and her children. she's on the run, lucky to have a sheltered home. after a few days, she leaves her children at the day care center. the man waits outside and stabs the woman to death. another victim of the deadly violence that women suffer. it's violence against women, just because we're women. the deadly violence against women, as this last image describes, occurs when the woman finally decides to leave the relationship. the most dangerous thing a woman can do is ask for a divorce from a man who thinks he owns her. she finds herself in a high-risk situation when the man realizes that he is about to lose control/power over her. other images: a young girl on her way home from a movie. she says "goodbye" to her friend "see you tomorrow". she's got one more leg to go. she hears heavy footsteps behind her, but only registers the presence of someone behind her. she's being assaulted and raped. she'll live, but she'll have to live with this for the rest of her life. we have female genital mutilation and so on. in its action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme, the commission indicated that it would present a communication on this violence in 2011-2012 and that this communication would be followed up by an action plan at eu level. i welcome this and look forward to such an action plan. as long as women suffer gender-based violence - precisely because we are women - we cannot call our societies equal. women's lives and their different life choices are limited by this violence and by the awareness of how widespread this violence is in society. women are victims of gender-based violence, but i also want to conclude by saying that sometimes we have to stop seeing these women as just victims. it is often strong women who, with the support of a functioning society, manage to build a good life for themselves and their children. it is now up to us in the european parliament to show that we support these women.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues for the many wise words in the debate, and above all for the determination i feel all my colleagues have, that we must fight this violence. i would like to say to the commission that we look forward to the victims package, to further support for victims, but we also need a directive to combat violence. it is not necessary to agree with every word in this report, but a 'yes' vote is important to send a strong signal to the commission that we need a directive. it's important that we show all these women who are living in abusive relationships that they shouldn't feel shame and guilt and shame. by agreeing to the report, we show that the guilt is a crime committed against them. i don't want them to feel guilty or ashamed. finally, i would like to say that we are many women who have survived thanks to the efforts of civil society, through the work of women's journeys and women's organisations. it is time that they not only shoulder the responsibility to help women out of the situation in which many live. the important thing is that we break the silence and that we show that there is support for these vulnerable people. i also want to stress how important it is that we show that this is a problem that cuts across all groups in society. there are no special groups that are vulnerable, it is in the whole body of society. i would appeal to members to send a signal that it is no longer acceptable for women to live in these conditions. women can provide a good life for themselves and their children, but then they must also have the support of us elected representatives. thank you again, colleagues, for your strong determination, and together, we will get through this!
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. thank you. yes, we hear that there are many who are expressing concern about migration today. in short, there is a fear of mass immigration to europe following the recent major events in north africa. of course, these will be followed by migratory flows. it has already begun and it will continue. it is inevitable that people will flee instability and violence, especially from today's libya. however, migration flows are so far more horizontal than vertical, and thus mainly affect tunisia and egypt. but thousands of people have also arrived on the small italian island of lampedusa, and this puts the solidarity between our member states to a severe test. sadly, eu countries have so far failed the solidarity test and do not seem to be willing to stand up for each other in times of difficulty. the alde group in the european parliament believes that the most important thing we can do at the moment is to implement the asylum directive. the answer in the longer term is the development of a common european asylum policy worthy of the name. this includes the possibility to suspend transfers of dublin ii asylum seekers when a member state is experiencing an extreme burden for any reason. solidarity also brings responsibilities. now each member state must respect and implement the directive, which aims to harmonise the protection of refugees and to build a sustainable european asylum system by 2012. we have committed ourselves to implementing it and we must do so in a spirit of solidarity and with full respect for international commitments for the common security and stability of all.
madam president, so far we have dealt with the crisis but now we need to deal with the fundamental problems that caused the crisis – namely the large deficits and the weak public finances. that is why the reform of the stability and growth pact is of utmost importance, not only to reach the aims and targets but also to have credibility in the economies of europe. we also need to tackle the problems of the lack of competitiveness and economic growth. that is the main task we need to deal with in order to fight poverty and create jobs, but also to secure prosperity. of course, member states have a fundamental responsibility here to restructure budgets, giving priority to social security and investments in growth at the same time as deficits are reduced. they must reform markets, including labour markets and other opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises. that is what member states must do – and much more – but let us also underline what the european union as such must do. we must have the same level of preparedness to restructure the budget of the european union as we are demanding from member states, ensuring that we give priority to growth and investment, research and science and open markets. we also need to ensure that we are reforming the european market. seventy percent of the european economy is in the service sector, but the services directive is rather limited in that perspective. the future of the european economy lies in the service sector and the knowledge economy. there is strong demand for the commission to put forward proposals making the internal market applicable to the whole knowledge economy. that is the key issue in making europe the leading knowledge economy in the world.
madam president, i would like to thank you. at its last meeting the council of ministers also discussed the safety of nuclear power stations and european reactors. it is a subject which is now being debated in parliament. we'll have a resolution to be voted on thursday i think most european citizens probably thought that stress tests were a natural part of nuclear safety measures for decades. that's not the case. the proposal adopted by the council in its conclusions is far too important. we have to test not only the technology and the geography, but also the security culture and the multiple risks. we must ensure that there is openness and transparency. it is totally unacceptable for governments and national authorities to be auditing themselves in this area. of course there must be independent checks, the facts must be made public, there must be full transparency under the commission's supervision. it's the only thing that's credible about this technology going forward. the institutional structure, which is as old as the european union, must also be renegotiated. it needs updating. we must have european safety standards in the system and finally we must ensure that the council of ministers also comes up with proposals on energy efficiency, alternative energy sources and a timetable for this.
mr president, i agree that we should take measures in the short term to address the humanitarian crisis in the mediterranean, ensuring the dignity of the people concerned using instruments such as frontex. we also need a long-term vision to solve the problems related to migration flows and to help create jobs in the countries of origin of these people. on of the european union’s key tools is trade policy. the time has come to improve the openness of our markets, starting with countries like egypt and tunisia. we also need to establish dialogue with a view to strengthening the regional trade relationship. we have the example of turkey and its success both with its customs union and in effectively implementing the necessary democratic reforms. we have to start daring to talk about custom unions and free-trade agreements with the countries of the mediterranean that are moving towards democracy and reforms. i would like to finish by calling on the council to adopt without further delay the regional convention on preferential pan-euro-med rules of origin.
mr president, violence against women is not a private issue. it is a crime to be persecuted. we need to break the silence. respecting culture and religion is important but it should never be an excuse for honour killing, genital mutilation, trafficking, domestic violence and forced marriages. the stockholm programme provides a new policy framework to enhance the fight against violence on women and calls for concrete action. i encourage the commission to come forward with a strategy which includes practical proposals. i voted in favour of this report because i believe we must join forces across political parties to denounce and combat all forms of violence against women. i support the principle and most of the proposals, but judicial and criminal law measures should be taken at national level. that is what we are doing in sweden. in fact combating violence is at the centre of the women’s organisation of my party, providing practical action and raising awareness not only to protect women, but also to empower women and to develop a culture of respect for women’s dignity. i have started a social media campaign on this which everybody is welcome to join.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. but we believe it is important that the eu takes real responsibility for the migrants who come here and does not hand over responsibility to our neighbouring countries as proposed in paragraph 9. we support the need for the human rights dimension to be clearly reflected in frontex's work, in particular the right of a person to leave his country, the prohibition of refoulement and the right to seek asylum. we see problems in some of the work that frontex has done so far and we do not support the statement that the european parliament welcomes the successful operation of frontex.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report on the role of women in agriculture because we believe that it is fundamental to combat the lack of equality between women and men in society. the report also highlights the importance of the existence of a functioning infrastructure and a basic supply of certain services, such as broadband and childcare, also in rural areas and not only in cities. however, we would like to stress that we do not believe that agriculture should retain the same share of the budget in the next multiannual financial framework, but that, on the contrary, the overall share of agriculture should be significantly reduced.
in writing. - we have chosen to support the activation of the eu globalisation fund once again - this time to help a total of some 1 200 people who have lost their jobs in poland and the czech republic - as europe is still suffering from the economic crisis and special times call for special measures. however, we believe that in future we should rather use existing instruments - in particular the european social fund - to increase the employability of those who have been notified or dismissed. there should be no need for a globalisation fund in the next budgetary period.
in writing. - we moderates agree with the problem as described in the report. in the stockholm programme, where we have been a strong driving force, the fight against violence against women is a priority. in the action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme, the commission has committed itself to propose a strategy, to be presented in 2011-2012, to combat violence against women, domestic violence and female genital mutilation. furthermore, article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union stipulates that the eu shall act to combat all forms of domestic violence and that member states should take all necessary measures to punish acts of violence and protect victims. since criminal law is the responsibility of the individual member states, we voted against the paragraph on introducing a directive at eu level. we voted for the report because we believe that the member states must take measures to ensure the safety of women.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of a european framework to combat violence against women. we welcome the decision and voted for the motion as a whole. the resolution was particularly important as it calls on the commission to live up to its previous promises to present a concrete legislative proposal to combat violence against women. however, the proposal contains some texts on surrogacy which we think were too un-noticed in their unequivocal opposition to this phenomenon and to international adoptions. we are not naive about the problem of surrogacy, but we do not want to attack a phenomenon which in some cases can be beneficial for the parties involved. that is why we voted against the specific texts on surrogacy, a position which our liberal group also took in the original vote of the committee on equality.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is perhaps not so strange that our colleagues who are against the whole of european union want to cut the budget of the european parliament, but it is quite obvious that there are populist motives behind it. more importantly, we who are in favour of european union also feel that it is time to start rethinking administrative expenditure. for the first time in this report we are resolved not to accept a development which means that parliament's budget is growing in a situation where we have a difficult situation for the budgets of the member states and where many ordinary citizens are affected by austerity measures. now we have to start taking this seriously, too. for the first time in my time as a member of parliament, we are cutting parliament's budget. i think we should do more. i agree with the rapporteur and with several of the previous speakers that we should be more strategic in this. that is why we have tabled an amendment from the socialist group on a long-term, strategic review of parliament's administrative expenditure. now we must show that we can take this task seriously. it's not just talk. we must begin to work on such a review. the second thing i wanted to mention is the house of european history. many have questioned whether it is the task of a parliament to run a european history museum. it's questionable, but i think there's a point to this project, which is that no one else has started a museum like this. maybe it's time someone did. but it must be done in accordance with principles of transparency, total responsibility for costs and a real responsibility for the activities. i am therefore very pleased that we have now been able to reach an agreement between the greens and the socialists and the rapporteur to vote in favour of the most essential parts of our amendment, which means that we now have a very transparent decisionmaking process on this house of european history. i'm glad you did. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i would like to thank mr lucas hartong. populism usually means not taking things seriously, reacting with your backbone, not thinking through a proper strategic response. the essential thing about what we are doing now is that we who really believe in the european union also want to make sure that we are accountable to the taxpayers and that we are bringing about a real review of the administration of the eu. it is much, much easier for those who do not want a european union like lucas hartong because he would like to put everything down. but that's not accountability, that's populism. (the president replied to the question and agreed to answer one further question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
madam president, mr portas does not need to continue. basically i agree with him. i also wanted to go further. i am not happy that we ended up with an increase of 2.3%. i think we could have gone further, but it was a compromise between the committee on budgets and the bureau. this is also the reason why we have tabled an amendment seeking a long-term strategic overview of parliament’s costs. with more modern management and a real effort to make long-term savings, i think we can end up in a much better situation when it comes to administrative expenditure, and there we will certainly listen to some of the proposals made by mr portas.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their good work. i shall, however, concentrate on the fisheries partnership agreement with the comoros. if i ever have to remind myself why we greens have so far voted against these fisheries partnership agreements, i need only bring out one of the evaluations and read the insides of the agreement with the comoros which we are now going to vote on. the eu has had an agreement with this poor country since 1998. the evaluation showed that the agreement provided the comoros with eur 2,7 million between 2005 and 2009. the agreement stipulates that 60% of the money will be used to support the local fisheries sector, control and scientific estimates of fish stocks. however, the evaluation shows that this developing country has not a single functioning fishing port, not a single coast guard vessel, not a single coast guard aircraft and not a single fisheries research vessel. the country's own fisheries sector is still very undeveloped. the comoros will thus receive eur 2.7 million to allow eu vessels to enter the country. we taxpayers account for 65 percent of that sum, and ship owners for 35 percent. these boats, the majority of which are used for tuna fishing, have caught fish worth eur 13.7 million during the same period. it is a very good deal for ship owners, but according to the evaluation, all the so-called added value has gone to the eu. no comoros have been employed as crew on the boats. no landing of fish has taken place in the comoros. all the processing of fish has taken place elsewhere, for example in the seychelles. i agree with the commissioner that it is good that the eu is present in the iotc, but my question to the commission is this: how does the commission intend to ensure that this new agreement is implemented better than previous agreements? how, for example, is the eu fleet to be encouraged to employ comoros on board and how is the commission to ensure that the agreement really contributes to the development of the comoros so that the talk of earmarked money for the development of the fisheries sector is not just beautiful words but also concrete?
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu is certainly more than the single market, but without the single market, there is no eu. the single market is our main tool for getting the eu out of the economic crisis. there is therefore no contradiction between what is good for european citizens and what is good for european businesses. everyone would benefit if we succeeded in removing the remaining obstacles to the free movement of people, goods, capital and services. the completion of the internal market is far from complete and the services sector in particular needs to be renewed and improved. this also applies to the digital market, so that we can reap the dynamic benefits of free movement. one of the cornerstones of the internal market is the euro. the single currency provides stability for businesses that do not have to worry about exchange rates. the euro facilitates trade across borders. if the euro were to be introduced throughout the eu, including in my home country of sweden, it would of course stimulate and strengthen europe and give the single market further impetus. we'd have more jobs and more welfare. by the way, mr president, i fully support the remarks made by malcolm harbour.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the presidency begins by stating that we need a locomotive for the economy. yes, we do, but i would add that we need a locomotive for social justice and for a sustainable society. social rights must never be seen as obstacles. on the contrary, it is the prerequisite for a sustainable and social economy and for growth. no one has mentioned the idea of a new vat strategy. i want to do that because we have different vat regulations in the different member states. sweden, for example, finances a large part of its welfare through its vat rules. we are already suffering from the eu's regulatory framework, because the eu does not want to allow us to exempt non-profit organisations from vat. it affects all ngos, for example, children's and youth activities. we must have the right to determine these vat rules ourselves.
mr president, it is time to put back the real economy at the heart of the european agenda and to restore citizens’ confidence in our common market. the relaunching of the single market is a historic chance for europe to get back to business. let us take it. the best way to pursue social europe is to create jobs and that is what the single market act is about. that is why i have been engaged in trying to avoid watering down this important act and to boost european capability to compete on the global market and generate jobs. i have resisted attempts to introduce unnecessary regulation and additional bureaucracy or issues such as the social clause. i have supported the consensus reached to give the commission a broad mandate to move forward. now is the time for action. all eu institutions, stakeholders and the council should take their shared responsibility in moving forward to implement issues such as the goods package, the services directive and the small business act, and to boost confidence in e-commerce. last but not least, i hope that retail, which is a pillar of the european economy, would also be high on the political agenda.
in writing. the committee on budgets, however, welcomes the commission's proposal to make the budgetary appropriations available to the member states for the period from 1 january 1999 to 31 december 2000 and to make the appropriations available for the period from 1 january 2000 to 31 december 2000. however, since the amendments to freeze the salaries and allowances of members next year were rejected - and the result of the vote also meant that the construction of a building for the european parliament's administration in luxembourg, which according to some estimates will cost 549 million euros, was again welcomed - we have not been able to support the resolution as such. we therefore decided to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. − in the negotiations on parliament's 2012 budget, we fought for a substantial reduction in the original proposal of 5.7%. the final result was 2.3%, which represents a real reduction in the budget compared with inflation. although this is a very big step in the right direction, we are not entirely satisfied, and we believe that further savings should have been identified. for this reason, we have also pushed through a proposal in the negotiations, which has now received broad support throughout parliament, in which we call for a more long-term review of parliament's expenditure. for too long there has been a tendency in parliament to constantly make new decisions with far-reaching economic consequences, without looking at the whole picture. parliament cannot just decide on cost increases every year, but also try to find ways of financing them by re-prioritizing and making them more efficient. finally, we would also like to stress that we are in favour of a review of the cost of members' travel and other allowances. however, it is not possible to decide to amend these by reducing the budget appropriations alone. this requires an amendment to the statute of members, something we will be working for and supporting in future.
in writing. - in the report on the rules for the financing of political parties at european level, we voted against the paragraph in the text which proposes that european political parties should be allowed to campaign in the referendums of the member states of european relevance. at present, european political parties, which are largely financed by eu funds, are only allowed to campaign in the european parliament elections. we believe the current rules are reasonable. national elections or referendums should be decided without the involvement of parties financed by the eu budget or other external funding.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. nuclear power is a different kind of energy source. in an extremely short time, it can cause extremely great damage to countries, people and future generations. i am therefore pleased that there seems to be a strong and broad consensus on nuclear energy and security issues in the european parliament. i hope that it will also result in clear, broad, common decisions. nuclear power cannot be regulated and monitored at national level alone. nuclear power knows no national boundaries, but neither do european ones. that is why the security debate and the security work must have a very broad agenda. it is important that we take as unanimous a decision as possible and for once put aside our slight differences on the nuclear issue. this is a matter of common interest, both in the short and long term: the security interest. in the longer term, the situation shows the unsustainable state of our current energy supply. we don't have a sufficiently diversified energy mix. the efforts to promote renewable energy and energy efficiency must be translated from words into action. what we need is nothing less than a paradigm shift in energy policy, but that is not what this resolution is about. it must be the beginning of a new start in the transition of our energy system towards sustainability, and of course preparation for a strategy which also phases out nuclear power. in some cases in the short term, in other cases in the longer or medium term.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the tragic events in japan have not only revealed mistakes and flaws in japanese reactors. the fukushima events have also revealed shortcomings in the international system of safeguards in nuclear power plants. today, many europeans are concerned about nuclear safety here in europe. it is therefore essential that the european union should comprehensively reassess its approach to nuclear safety. the view of the liberals and democrats is that the council’s proposed stress tests are too weak. we should not only test technology and geography, but also the entire safety culture and preparedness to respond to multifaceted disaster scenarios. it is also absolutely vital that the tests should be made mandatory and be based on common and transparent community criteria. it should be obvious to everyone that we cannot leave it to governments and national authorities to supervise themselves. instead, the stress tests should be conducted by independent experts and in full transparency. all facts should be made public under the supervision of the commission. (applause) today, that is the only credible alternative for this technology. there should also be a comprehensive review of eu nuclear safety legislation by the iaea. we should have european standards and stringent requirements. there is a responsibility for the commission, but there is also a responsibility for the council to step forward and take its responsibility. lastly, it is essential that we should now also draw the lessons for alternative energy and energy efficiency. it is time to decide on binding targets. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. iceland is a small nation in terms of population, about 300,000 people, but it is a great nation! i really want to emphasize what has been said here. iceland has democratic traditions, it has a culture that is impressive, and it can actually show off social security long before other countries could. of course, we can get stuck talking about the economic excesses that took place in 2008, but there have been excesses in more countries than little iceland. it is clear that when a small nation of 300,000 is hit by the unbridled market economy, there are no inertial effects in the administration. we must not forget that when we talk about a country, an empire, in the arctic region. i also understand very well that the icelandic people are interested in fishing. it is also the industry that has made it possible for generations to live on the island. we should be careful when we talk about a small nation so we don't end up in some kind of big brother perspective. iceland is subject to the obvious scrutiny of the eu and i would say that it is doing better than many member nations today would have done if they had been scrutinized as hard as we are now scrutinizing iceland. that's not to say it's wrong. i also believe that it will be easier for norway to approach the eu and become a member eventually if iceland joins. iceland is welcome. iceland is a vitalising force for the eu and is certainly no sacrifice!
mr president, i would like to thank you. since i only have a minute, i'm going to say one thing. all we have learned so far from enlargement is that real reforms only begin when negotiations begin. it is not as if tomorrow, as soon as we start negotiations with macedonia, we will also be finishing this process. it's just the beginning. there are many opportunities to block the country later if greece so wishes, but to block it now in this situation and in the geographical situation in which it is situated is totally irresponsible. the situation in macedonia is very delicate. to keep the country waiting any longer would be to send the wrong signal. it would only serve to increase nationalism and strengthen the negative forces that we want to combat precisely with enlargement.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am grateful that the commission has chosen to present this review of the southern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy. it's needed. it is simply to acknowledge that europe has met dictatorships with tolerance rather than with the tough demands of democracy. it has cost europe's confidence. so we need a new policy, one that helps to rebuild these countries from decades of mismanagement. europe can do a lot in this area, especially as the region's most important trading partner. the best thing would be to invest in reconstruction and trade to regain the trust we have lost. that is why i am glad that the commission is talking about the trade dimension in this communication, that we should increase market access for our north african neighbours to help them trade for prosperity. but today it is the european customs barriers, not least in the agricultural sector, which are a major obstacle to development. take, for example, the minimum prices for agricultural products, which make fruit and vegetables more efficient to produce, the higher the duties you face. it's an obstacle to development and prosperity. i would therefore suggest that the first step that the commission could take is to give the countries of north africa that have embarked on the journey towards democracy free market access in europe. it is something we did for the western balkans after the war in yugoslavia, and why not learn from that example? we are building europe's prosperity on free trade in europe, why not help our north african neighbours to build their prosperity on free trade with us?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to highlight two main points in this report. firstly, the european investment bank has a central role in the eu 2020 strategy. this is particularly true of investments in green infrastructure. the strength and sustainability of the european economy require greater investment in railways and ports. it must also be linked to the road network in efficient transport hubs. the infrastructure must be made a well-functioning whole. the european investment bank should become even more active in these key areas. this requires a new approach to flexible financing solutions. european project bonds are an excellent step in the right direction, but they should be complemented by some additional new financing options. in particular, i see an opportunity to develop the model where the european, national, regional and local levels interact in a more productive way. secondly, the european investment bank plays an important role in eu development policy. there is clear potential for improvement. the bank's activities should be made more transparent, have a stronger local presence and be more clearly focused on the overall objectives of the union's development cooperation. environmental, poverty and development aspects should always be taken into account when the investment bank takes decisions.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a big thank you to janusz wojciechowski for an efficient and very good job. my colleagues before me have told you what this is all about, a new effective vaccine. i would therefore like to take a few seconds to point out that this is perhaps the first tangible evidence of what will happen to our agriculture when the climate changes violently. in my home country of sweden, a disease like the bluetongue in the idiots would have been a completely unrealistic idea 4 or 5 years ago. it was a sporadic disease in southern europe. today it is a reality and we have had our first epidemic. so it's very important that we start vaccinating now, but it's also very important that when we talk about climate, environment and the future, we realize that it's not just drought and rain that's going to change. a strong climate change will mean something quite different, diseases with epidemics and epizootics, both among humans and among animals. we must take this into account when discussing, for example, the europe 2020 strategy. where are we going? it is also important for us as legislators to realize this. we can only make decisions with the knowledge we have today, but we have to have the flexibility to make new decisions with new knowledge and new -- in this case -- vaccines.
author. − mr president, i would also like to thank my colleague mr cadec for giving us the opportunity to discuss very fundamental questions. first of all, when it comes to the increase in oil prices, there are actually two sectors which are exempt from all energy taxes already and those are aviation and shipping – including fisheries. so, compared to all other sectors in the european union, fisheries are proportionally less affected by the rise in oil prices since they are already exempt from all the taxation. this is already a hidden subsidy which has contributed to making it possible for european fisheries to go on fishing depleted fish stocks; and the segments in the fisheries sector which have the highest consumption of fossil fuels are in fact the most destructive ones, such as beam trawlers and bottom trawlers. so the de minimis has already been increased tenfold in 2008; this is also a large subsidiary to the sector. yet at the same time we are making lots of promises in the international arena to reduce co2 emissions, in fact by 80-95% by 2050; we have also promised in nagoya to eliminate environmentally harmful subsidies by 2020; in the wto negotiation context we are also focusing on how to eliminate the distortion of fishery subsidies. i would think that, if the eu were to introduce an increased de minimis at this point in time, it is likely to undermine the eu leadership in the ongoing negotiation process, sending a signal round the world that other countries, too, could increase their fishery subsidies on fuel, which would lead to a vicious circle, increasing the pressure on the world’s fish stocks. this is absolutely not what we need at this time: we need to turn around the trend, and this would send completely the wrong signal. the market must take the increase in prices, and this is what the commission must focus on in the cfp reform.
member of the commission. − mr president, i can say in replying to the members that i can understand all your concerns. i share your concerns about the poor income of our fishermen, especially of the owners of small vessels in coastal regions. but is this problem caused by the increase in fuel prices? are you sure about that? we have discussed this problem again and again and we recognised that we had this problem even before prices were raised. of course i can understand that the increase in fuel prices could worsen the problem, but the main reason for the problem has always been overfishing – the fishing over the set limits which cannot leave stocks in a healthy state. we have discussed it and this is the main problem we have to solve through our cfp reform. of course, now we are discussing fuel prices. this is a problem and we must discuss how we can face it. the only way to face this problem on a permanent basis is to improve the resilience of our sector to the increase in fuel prices. this is the only way, because we cannot be sure about the evolution of fuel prices. let me give you an example of what could happen: in belgium, they improved the engines in their fleet after the last crisis and now they have reduced spending on fuel in their fleets by 20 percent. so this is the way to go and this is what we are trying to do. nevertheless, referring to your proposals, there is a proposal to the commission to increase the de minimis ceiling. let us look at this problem. what is this ceiling? this is the ceiling of the aid that member states can give to their sector. if the commission now increases this ceiling, it means that only the member states with a healthy budget can give this. so this would result in creating an unlevel playing field in our sector, favouring the richest countries. let me put it clearly so that we understand the situation. also, if we increase the ceiling only the bigger vessels will gain any advantage from it. i am surprised that some members of parliament – who i would not have expected to say this – are asking me to increase this ceiling. the member states can give their own state aid. the richer member states can already give it now. regarding the funds, let me explain. the member states use only 20% of our funding. some members of parliament say to me that our funding is the problem because they cannot use it in the way they want; but we have flexibility; the member states can reallocate their funding – every member state can do this. only italy has asked us for a reallocation and we approved it. so why do you not try to persuade the member states – the governments of your countries – to use the funds properly? if we really want to help, and if there is a problem with absorption of the funding, i am here to facilitate it for everybody, but until now no such effort has been made. to answer the questions in a very direct way: yes, the funding is there; yes, the member states can use it; and, yes, the member states can give from their own resources to this de minimis ceiling. so if i change the situation the only result it will have is to distort fair competition between the member states and between the small and bigger vessels. we have to understand this. of course there is a problem in general and, referring to our reform, we can discuss what we can do to help our small-scale fisheries, in particular. we can also discuss every other proposal, but this proposal to increase the de minimis ceiling is one that cannot help.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 may 2011 at 12.00 noon.
the agenda includes the report by gunnar hökmark, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on radio spectrum policy (com ((2010) 0471 - c7-0270/2010 - 2010/0252 ((cod)) (a7-0151/2011).
rapporteur. − mr president, this report is about making europe number one, so it is quite appropriate that we are having this discussion here tonight. in 1950, when schuman proposed the founding of this union it was about coal and steel; today it is about information technology and knowledge that will be crucial for the future of europe. i am happy to say that the report we are presenting here today has emerged from extremely good cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, ms trautmann, mr rohde, mr chichester and mr lamberts, who have supported the proposal. i am very grateful for this because we are discussing today a proposal that can enable europe to recover the lead in mobile telephony, mobile internet and modern information technology. for me, the discussion about the various proposals in this report is about the choice of whether europe is to be number one or number three. for me the choice is simple. sometimes when we talk about the world’s biggest economies, we talk about the us and china, all of us forgetting that the european union is the biggest economy, although we do not have the biggest markets. it is up to us today to discuss whether we are going to take the steps that can make a change. if we are to do so, then, in order to secure the lead in area after area with regard to telecoms and the development of broadband, i want europe to have the best broadband capacity and the highest speeds, because then we will be home to the development of all the new services that will be crucial to the modern economy and to our competitiveness. i want europe to be home to the next generation of googles, yahoos, apples and all other companies that are manifestations of both competitiveness and innovation. we can be that, but it is also possible that other economies like america, china, or india will take the lead, so we have a choice to make. in this report, i have proposed that we stick to the date of 2013 with regard to the 800 mhz band. in addition, i have proposed that we be more ambitious and say that the european union should free up 1200 mhz in the 1.5 ghz band and the 2.3 ghz band, and that we should also start the discussion about the 700 mhz band – because if we do not start it now we will not have the opportunity to take decisions in the future – and we should use the 5 ghz band for common licence-free use for all short-distance mobile internet communications. here we have the proposal. i would like the strongest possible support from parliament because then we can discuss this with the member states and raise with them the issue of whether they all want to be number one or whether they are happy to be number three. i think that choice is simple and i am looking forward to this debate and to the vote on wednesday.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all those who were involved in this fascinating debate, for, although the issue may seem to be a very technical one, at the end of the day it is a mainstream issue because radio spectrum is like water or fresh air. it is, as catherine trautmann has said, a scarce good, it is a public good and it is also an essential good. the rapporteur and his shadows have succeeded in making the issue quite clear, and simply putting before us what has to be done to achieve a positive outcome. of course, this is a democracy: we are debating the issue and it is an attractive debate. not so long ago, however, we discussed the digital agenda; we all agree on the digital agenda; and this issue is a major one for the digital agenda. for if we do not assume our responsibility and take a clear line, then we can forget what was said earlier by ms toia: we need to be aware that in 2020 – and we set this out in the digital agenda – every european should be able to pursue his or her interests via what are ultimately spectrum opportunities. we have also talked about creating digital opportunities for every european by 2013. if that is what we have in mind, then we need to be consistent and we need to be in a position to assume the consequences of being consistent. i would like to thank all those members who have spoken in clear language, stating priorities while, at the end of the day, agreeing on exactly what we have to do in a strategic approach to regulation with regard to the management of radio spectrum. there are still hurdles to be overcome, no doubt about that. given what is at stake, however, i am confident those hurdles will be taken successfully. we fully respect the use of spectrum for broadcasting and cultural activities: let there be no misunderstanding on that. we will tackle that point if there is still any hesitation to be overcome. with regard to additional spectrum for broadband and the second digital dividend, i think everybody is aware that sooner or later – and most of the members of parliament will probably think sooner – we will have to tackle that point too. this is a win-win situation, and in freeing the 800 mhz band we took the option which affected the least amount of spectrum, so we can see that as step one on our journey. to look backwards for a moment: who could have imagined 15 years ago what is at stake today? had we waited 15 years ago, and hesitated in taking decisions as politicians, we would have failed. in that event, what we would be discussing now is not whether we want the number one position or the number three position, but whether we want to avoid the last position. spectrum is a national competence: i am aware of that. the commission agrees, and the inventory is a matter for the member states. however, we all agree that spectrum is a very valuable resource and we need to recognise that talking about a digital single market also gives us the opportunity and the responsibility to think along cross-border lines – and, if there is one area in which we ought to think cross-border, it is spectrum policy. with regard to deadlines and what has been and is at stake, it is clear, to me at least, that 2013 is not too early. we should also be aware that derogations are proposed for two types of situation: in the case of difficulties with neighbouring countries and in the case of circumstances that no one could have foreseen. i believe, however, that we have to take the line that time is not on our side and that derogations should not be misused. all in all, i am looking forward to discussions with the council members, i am looking forward to the result of your voting and i am looking with confidence to the future, in the hope that one of the pillars we have talked about will be finalised before the end of the year. i should like to conclude by thanking, once again, not only the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, but also the members of the various committees involved, for their constructive and very positive efforts.
rapporteur. − madam president, i think we need to be aware that we are talking about a part of society which is developing extremely rapidly. the pace of change has been and will continue to be extremely rapid. we are really talking about how we want things to be in the year 2020. that is why it is important to make the point that, in discussing the 700 mhz band, we are not saying anything more than that we shall have the opportunity to take decisions later on the best way of using it. as has been said, spectrum is a scarce resource but it is also a public good and we have the responsibility to use it as well and as efficiently as possible – a point that ms trautmann also made. i would also like to emphasise that there is no conflict between cultural and commercial use. i want us to have ambitions of a kind that will enable us to bring culture into this new technology, rather than reserving the technology for commercial use, which will be the outcome if we are not sufficiently ambitious. in that case, culture will be left behind, and i do not think that culture in europe will have the best opportunities if it is closed into the old technologies. i believe it is possible not only to secure broadcasting as of today but also to create new opportunities for a new time. however, we need to be able to take decisions. i must say – without irony and with a high level of satisfaction – that no one here tonight has questioned the fact that we need to be number one. in the global world of competition and knowledge, the only way to win is to be number one, and that should be our aim.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? this has been a complicated issue. we have over a thousand car-collateral investment deals. the eu has competence under the lisbon treaty. how are we supposed to handle this situation? it turns out not to be easy. we have had many meetings and we have tried to find a common position, but we have not succeeded. it's just as well to be honest about it. we shall have to vote and see what parliament's position is. i would have liked to have had a common position so that we could better negotiate with the council of ministers. we could then have defended the powers and principles of parliament as laid down in the treaty. it did not, and that is because it is a sensitive subject, particularly as regards how to deal with the old agreements. as regards the new agreements which the member states are continuing to enter into and are entitled to conclude, we could certainly have agreed to find a policy which has a reasonable balance between the rights of investors and other rights. on the other hand, the old agreements were difficult and that is why i have tabled the compromises we proposed in committee, because the vote was very even. i still hope that we have a more modern view of investment treaties than many of these very old treaties, where it was we who invested in other countries. today, we have at least as much investment coming into our countries. we must then ensure that we have that policy space and that investment must also adapt to a further development of modern environmental and social work. that is the part of the treaty we must defend. investment policy cannot ignore it either. as i said, we'll see how the vote goes tomorrow. another problem we have here is that we cannot reason about maximum protection for investments either. that's not the way to create legal certainty. as the new trade policy is more balanced, we must also have a more balanced view of what maximum protection can mean. it is not certain that we want foreign state-owned or even dictatorial companies to whom we give maximum protection here at the expense of human rights and the environment. this is the balance i hope we can achieve. investment agreements are not intended to achieve social objectives, but they should not prevent us from achieving social and environmental objectives either. this is a wide-ranging discussion. another important discussion is that of openness. we recognize that parliament has been given new powers, and the eu has been given new powers. the commission is now responsible. then it must have access to the documents, too. we need to increase transparency. many of these agreements were written when there was hardly any conflict in so-called dispute settlements. now we have over 300 cases and ongoing trials. this must therefore be opened up to further scrutiny. we cannot have this total closure and i really hope, whatever one thinks of this link between policy and investment, that in terms of transparency we can stand united and defend the new powers of the treaty and defend openness. i sure hope so. so i hope that amendment no 13 will be supported. because without it, we have no democratic control over these processes whatsoever. this is necessary if legal and judicial certainty is to be maintained and defended. we also see a tendency for many other countries such as the usa, australia and canada to also start looking at renewing their agreements. it is good if we can agree to modernise the existing conflict mechanisms and judicial processes because they are outdated and need to be modernised and made much more transparent. we have an investment policy for the future. it comes in another case, the future debate itself.
the rapporteur. - i would like to thank everyone who took part in the debate. it's been tough. some of the things raised by quisthoudt-rowohl godelieve and others are this with security and justice. that's exactly what we all agree on: that investments should be fair, you should be treated fairly and you should have reasonable security. at the same time, you cannot overprotect them like you overprotected babies. you hit a mine sometimes and get your bumps sometimes and you develop a consciousness. however, the risks must be reasonably predictable and the risks must be understood. if we overprotect, we preserve old industry and miss the transformation and renewal we need, because of the fear of making new decisions. that would be a shame. i therefore do not quite understand the criticism of the commissioner against some of the compromises which are being put forward again here, because we are referring to the treaty and you yourselves are interpreting how it is to be applied. we know very well that you cannot examine every agreement and question everything, but only gross violations. it is also good that we agree to retain articles 5 and 6. it would be unfortunate if the only way for the commission to challenge an agreement was to go to the court of justice. if you question a contract and the ecj says it is invalid, suddenly hundreds of contracts would be invalid without any warning. it certainly would not be a legally sound tradition. the maintenance of articles 5 and 6 is important. i agree with daniel caspary that we should have a quick negotiation. whatever happens tomorrow, it's important that we have a quick negotiation. i have already spoken to the hungarian presidency and they are prepared and would like to deal with this as soon as we have voted. they could also have considered a first-instance settlement, but that does not seem to be the case here. i don't think you, william dartmouth, need worry about the greens taking over investment policy. there are many forces that want to keep it exactly as it has been for the last 50 years. i have to say, as much as you admire our political ability to get the bill through, don't overdo it. i, for one, admire your rhetorical prowess. with it, we might be able to pass even more green policies. as i said, we'll have to vote this week and see how it goes. i thank those involved and i also thank the hungarian presidency, whom i have met on several occasions.
for the ppe group. madam president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank both commissioner algirdas šemeta and rapporteur jorgo chatzimarkakis for their excellent cooperation. this is a solid report and i can only say that we in the committee on budgetary control agree on all the essentials of the recommendations we have put forward. after all, this is the 16th year in a row that we have not received a clean audit report from the court of auditors. the error rate is not increasing, it is decreasing, but it is still not ok. the sum of each year added to each other creates a picture that we don't think is okay. the commission bears a great responsibility for this, but i would say that the member states bear an even greater responsibility. as the commissioner pointed out, 80% of the finances and money used are shared responsibility and the member states do not take responsibility. that's also where we have our biggest problems. the commission must therefore put more pressure on the member states to make them take responsibility for the money that the eu lets them handle. in the report we have three demands which i would like to highlight in particular. the first is to do more to get the member states to submit national declarations. today, four countries - the netherlands, sweden, denmark, and the united kingdom - do so. they're showing that it can be done. the commission must give these countries support but also use them as examples to force other countries to do the same. the second point is that the commission must do a better job of using the possibility of suspending payments. for those countries which have repeatedly had problems with money management, payments should be suspended. the third point is that we need better systems for recovering money that has been wrongly paid out. we need to have clear rules. it is strange that countries that have large debts to the eu can continue to get money paid out to them and that it can take so long for money to come back. this is an area where the commission also needs to make improvements. i am glad that the commissioner has taken parliament on these three points and i look forward to working closely with commissioner algirdas šemeta as rapporteur next year. thank you, jorgo chatzimarkakis. i'm going to have to ask you. i'll try to manage your work well for the next year. let's move!
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. however, we chose not to support the paragraphs relating to the eu staff regulations. we believe that there may be a need for commission staff to have extra travel days, some may have very long journeys and may have to change flights or other means of transport several times. in addition, amendments to the eu staff regulations can only be made under a codecision procedure between the parliament and the council. the discharge process is therefore not the appropriate forum for these issues. the reform of the staff regulations will be discussed later by the european parliament's committee on legal affairs.
in writing. - i would like to stress that as a public institution, the european parliament must strive for the greatest possible openness and transparency. i also believe that, particularly in view of the current economic situation, parliament must review its expenditure and identify savings and efficiency gains. parliament should have a more in-depth discussion on these issues, which is why i would like to give more space to the discharge debate. i am also in favour of the principle that the european parliament should have a common mileage system in favour of cheaper air travel. finally, i do not think it is wrong for parliament to award cultural prizes. i am, however, very critical of the parliament's prize for journalism and do not think it is appropriate for parliament to award prizes to journalists whose job it is to investigate the same. i therefore believe that this price should be abolished.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. we want to emphasize that as a public institution, the european parliament must strive for the greatest possible openness and transparency. we therefore chose to support paragraph 5 which calls for greater transparency in the reimbursement of members' expenses. we also believe that, particularly in view of the current economic situation, parliament must review its expenditure and identify savings and efficiency gains. parliament should have a more in-depth discussion on these issues, which is why we would also like to give more space to the discharge debate. we are also in favour of the principle that the european parliament should have a common mileage system in favour of cheaper air travel, although we have great difficulty in seeing how this could be implemented in practice. finally, we do not think it is wrong for parliament to award cultural prizes. we are, however, very critical of the parliament's prize for journalism and do not think it appropriate for parliament to award prizes to journalists whose job it is to investigate the same. we therefore consider that this price should be abolished.
in writing. - we, the swedish social democrats, have decided not to grant the economic and social committee discharge for the financial year 2009. following an internal notification, olaf decided to open an investigation and, in order to have all the necessary facts, we would therefore like to await the outcome of this investigation before granting a discharge.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. as the point of these trade preferences is to try to support pakistan's recovery and future development, we believe they should be offensive and comprehensive, without protective measures for the eu, especially as they would be limited in time. we are in favour of respect for human rights, including workers' rights, social and environmental standards and democratic principles, and of making these a permanent condition of trade agreements. we voted against the comprehensive human rights requirements proposed in the report, as it is completely unreasonable that pakistan should be able to meet them before the trade preferences come into force. we believe that the eu should have instead demanded improvements in these areas which could have been implemented quickly, especially given that these demands will be made if a trade agreement between the eu and pakistan were to become relevant later.
madam president, freedom of movement is a cornerstone of european integration. let us not open a pandora’s box by revising schengen. let us not go back on our principles. the possibility of introducing border controls already exists. it should be temporary, exceptional and a last resort. what is needed is a common approach, a long-term vision as called for by the commission, to respond to citizens’ concerns on security. we need to move forward to a common asylum policy by 2012, to have a common migration policy and to facilitate legal immigration for work while combating irregular immigration. short-term procedures that hinder resettlement have to be removed. yes, we have to express solidarity with the member states that are most exposed to an influx of people, but first of all our solidarity should be with the people who are fleeing tragedy. the dignity of immigrants, of people fleeing the country, has to be put back at the centre of the european debate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. much has already been said, but it deserves to be repeated. it's good that we finally agreed on a lobbyist registry. many of us have fought for it for a long time. but still, it's a very cautious proposal. i choose to see it as a first step towards a broad principle of publicity in all the eu institutions. it is very good to have today's remarks from the council and from commissioner maroš šefčovič. openness and transparency are one of the few truly effective instruments to minimise the risks of fraud and deception. it is also an important way of increasing confidence in those of us who work in this political system and in politics in general. the next step should be to cover all institutions, to make the register compulsory and, as in some scandinavian countries, to supplement it with whistleblower protection for 'whistleblowers', who are also of enormous importance for genuine openness and transparency. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the treaty of lisbon has given the european parliament increased powers, and that means greater responsibilities. transparency in our work is therefore of the utmost importance, given that we are dealing with legislation for 500 million people and often very large economic values. the list of lobbyists now decided in the compromise is of course very valuable, and i hope that we can move forward with whistleblower protection. i also hope that we can go further and make the entry in the register of financial liabilities or ownership compulsory, rather than voluntary as is the case today. i also hope that we will have a discussion on what side-tasks are ethically appropriate when one has a mission as an mep. i appreciate the compromise and see it as a way forward, but there are many more steps to be taken on the road to transparency, openness and greater democratic trust. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the people and rescue workers in and around chernobyl were hit very hard by that accident, but the effects also reached areas far beyond. even today, 25 years after the chernobyl accident, in some areas of sweden, animals on the move must be tested and given alternative feeding before slaughter. this has particularly affected the sami population. after the fukushima accident, many people in europe today are once again concerned about nuclear power. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the monitoring and evaluation of european reactors should not be a paper trail, but should be a real evaluation. transparency is everything and i am therefore very concerned to hear that the uk does not want to report the results of stress tests and that france is not interested in ambitious stress tests. commissioner, in addition to technology and geography, you must also ensure that the safety culture and the structure of safety rules are included in the stress test when that proposal comes. thank you, sir.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we say that consumer power is important, and if we are serious about this, then of course we must also give consumers the opportunity to use their power. we need to make sure they have enough product information and more to make informed and wise choices. i would therefore like to thank in particular our rapporteur, toine manders, for her persistence and commitment to incorporating the consumer perspective in the report. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who have shown a great commitment to increasing consumer power. as shadow rapporteur, i have tabled amendments on behalf of the gue/ngl on origin labelling, compulsory labelling of animal products and ethical and environmental labelling. it is not all there, but i am very satisfied with the compromise that has been reached and i want to express my support for it. there is a lack of information on chemicals and various products used in textile production. the commission has promised to draw up a study on this, and i just want to stress how extremely important it is that we have such a study in order to protect public health and to combat, among other things, allergies, which we see have increased very much. we need to be able to see and if so, establish the connections that exist. i am also glad that animal parts of textile products will also be labelled, and i wanted to use my speaking time to thank everyone who has done a very good job in increasing consumer power. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you to toine manders, and a special commendation for the desire to label parts made of fur is now included. labelling is good for consumers, we all know that. we also know how important freedom of choice is, and for consumers to make informed choices, good information is needed that is easy to understand and true. i'm having trouble with the origin labels. today's goods are often made up of textiles and parts from different countries, making it almost impossible to properly identify the origin of a garment. toine manders was in on it himself. where do you draw the line, what do you mark and how much should come from a particular country? in today's globalised world, origin labelling can be a way for consumers to be well informed and make the right choices. it can also be a sign of hidden protectionism and sometimes when i hear these comments i think i am both hearing and seeing it. it is open borders and free trade that have made europe rich, and european consumers know this. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you. these are troubled times. the financial crisis has shown the importance of citizens' trust in banks and payment systems. stress tests of banks are therefore an important instrument for testing the resilience of banks to unexpected shocks. financial stability is about how well capitalised banks are and how resilient they are. our experience shows that robust tests increase confidence in the banking system, and the tests should be rigorous, credible, comprehensive and be accompanied by clear requirements. the irish example unfortunately shows the opposite. i would like to stress the importance of openness and transparency in the publication of the results of the stress tests. the publication of individual tests is very important to help strengthen the confidence of citizens and the market in banks. it is, as michel barnier said, a matter of trust. future stress tests need to evolve continuously to include real market conditions and risks. by recognising exposures in sovereign debt, market participants can make their own risk assessments. this is important to strengthen market confidence in the design and credibility of the tests. the commission, the european systemic risk board (esrb) and the european banking authority (eba) should be clear about the scope of the stress tests and should check and ensure that the assumptions of the stress tests reflect the risks. if the stress tests show that one or more banks are not meeting the requirements, member states must act immediately. the swedish experience of expansive banks in the baltic states shows that risks can quickly build up with growing imbalances. history has taught us that caution is necessary, but delay or hesitation in the face of inadequate results can be devastating. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in recent years, the turmoil of the nation's finances has caused us to lose sight of the root of evil. in the process of rescuing the public finances of the weaker countries, we have tended to forget that the banks are our biggest problem. firstly, the long series of banking failures is the main reason why so many countries' public finances are now so fragile, and secondly, many of the key weaknesses in banking systems still persist. we must find workable public finance solutions for athens, dublin and lisbon. but such solutions are of little value unless we also give a boost to european banks which are not yet able to stand on their own feet. if we do not make the necessary efforts at this stage to create a sustainable banking sector, sooner or later it will cause a burden on public finances that even the strongest countries will find it difficult to cope with. what is particularly regrettable in this context is that several countries that today have robust finances are doing so little to address the weaknesses in their own banking systems. they are clamoring for the greeks, the irish and the portuguese to improve, but they are not doing their homework, even though the resources are there. this is not acceptable. the ongoing stress test must be carried out in a rigorous, transparent and trust-building manner. it is equally clear that the stress test must be followed up by proper action to address the weaknesses identified. a common european approach to this would be very valuable. i expect the commission to take such an initiative shortly, on the basis of the guidelines set out by parliament in elisa ferreira's report on crisis management in the banking sector. in the end, however, the main responsibility remains at national level. all countries, not least the strongest, must make sure that the remaining weaknesses in their banking systems are addressed. thank you, sir.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. many of us are outraged that europe, despite a wide public debate on the subject, is still dumping hazardous waste in poorer countries. as many of you have already said, we are rightly upset. not only do we use products that wear out and destroy the environment, but we also neglect the products when we no longer want them. instead, we dump hazardous waste that harms the health of innocent people, often children, and poisons the soil and water of other countries for generations to come. it is simply unacceptable. how can this continue? there's a law and there's a ban, but it doesn't work. the commission must therefore now propose changes. the best thing, of course, as always, is that there is no hazardous waste. our extensive work in detecting and phasing out dangerous chemicals in, among other things, reach is therefore important in this case as well. since the ban on the export of hazardous waste is not working, i think we should be particularly pleased that we have strengthened legislation on waste containing electrical or electronic equipment (wees) by setting high collection targets. but, knowing how poorly the member states are complying with the export ban, there is good reason for the commission to monitor closely the actions of the member states also in the context of wee and other legislation dealing with the handling of this type of products. as many have said, and the commission has also said, there is a need for some clarification and simplification of the actual rules governing the transport of toxic waste to developing countries, so that it will be easier for the police and other border controls to prevent the environmental crimes that the export of hazardous waste actually involves. but just as surely, member states need to give this issue a higher priority. i think it is a constant question how the member states fail in their responsibility to check compliance with eu legislation. it is very clear that the member states are not fulfilling their obligations. the member states must take greater responsibility and we expect the commission to ensure that this happens. what you have presented here today, mr barnier, seems to me to be a step in the right direction. when we see the whole message, we have to decide whether we think it's enough steps or not. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you. since i only have a minute, i'm gonna make this very brief. two of my colleagues have already mentioned the conflict in nagorno-karabakh and the complicated situation there. all reports also indicate that the situation has changed dramatically in recent weeks. in view of the fact that some military movements are being observed in the areas of azerbaijan occupied by armenia, that is to say, nagorno-karabakh, my question is whether you, catherine ashton, are aware of the development of the situation and whether you are doing anything to prevent any escalation, not only in this conflict but also in the occupied territories of georgia? i just want to introduce you to this issue and i will also send you a written question later. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the conditions for forests vary widely in different parts of europe. forestry legislation is therefore best managed at national level. in addition, the treaty of lisbon does not support a common european forestry policy. the main problem with the proposed climate and forest regulations is that forests are a key to the eu achieving its climate goals. forests are needed for a green transition of the economy, for example through the production of biofuels from forestry residues. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. for example, it is very strange to propose binding sustainability criteria for a renewable resource such as forests, but not to have similar criteria for fossil fuels such as coal. i will continue to work towards a european common forestry policy. instead, i want to invest resources in research, education, information and innovation on how we can prevent the impact that climate change will have on our forests. thank you, sir.
in writing. - the decision on the so-called transparency register is not ambitious enough. the commission's register, now merged with parliament's, is voluntary and covers a small fraction of the estimated 15 000 lobbyists in brussels. the register does not contain any relevant information. i regard the report as a certain, albeit limited, progress. it would have been better to wait for the conclusions of the group led by president jerzy buzek before taking a decision. the scandals uncovered in recent months underline the inadequacy of parliament's rules as well. a code of conduct is needed which makes it illegal for members of parliament to take money to support the proposals of lobby groups. the only people who can commission parliamentarians must be their constituents, not special economic or religious interests. i believe that all lobbyists should be registered. making exceptions for certain people creates loopholes in control. in the campaign my party called for mandatory registration of lobbyists with a register common to all eu institutions. we also demanded that the issues on which the lobbyists are working be made clear. the register shall contain financial information, including expenditure on lobbying activities and who funds these activities. a code of conduct for lobbying is necessary. lobbyists who behave unethically should be exposed publicly and be able to be shut down. we're going to have a double-entry accounting of gifts, travel, dinners for officials and politicians, that is, both givers and recipients are going to account for the gifts. eu officials shall not be able to access directly a lobbyist position related to their previous work until after a period of two years. in addition, all incoming and outgoing correspondence between the eu institutions and lobbyists should be made public. lobbyists should not be able to request a classification. the casinis report does not meet these requirements.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner olli rehn, you are doing a very good job. during the year you have made a number of proposals which have improved the situation, and we should all acknowledge that. i'm surprised to hear this discussion. i thought this was a house for europe, not a house for 27 different member states. there is a nationalism here that is frightening and that will not help solve our problems. it's about solidarity. (speaker speaks english) (speaking to mr helmer, who had expressed his disagreement) you may laugh, but you're wrong. you are definitely wrong, mr helmer, because it is about solidarity. europe is about solidarity and we are all linked together: even the pound sterling reflects on the euro. i am astonished. in sweden, we have experienced what it means to be chained by debt. we were a country in debt, people in debt, but we managed to get through it. why should our friends in greece, portugal and ireland not be able to do that? do you think we're special up in the north? of course it's not like that. but right now, they need our help and assistance. and if we don't give them that help and assistance, we're gonna fall ourselves. (speaker speaks english) europe is a common destiny for us all, and we have to realize that even you, mr helmer. you are a part of europe and you can do more. (interjection from mr helmer: absolutely not!)
for the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think we have done a fantastic job on the committee on agriculture. it is not often that a politically composed assembly is as united as we have been this time. in fact, antibiotic resistance is the single greatest threat to both animal and public health. infectious diseases were once the leading cause of death in children, young people, and young animals. remember that in these respects both animals and humans are mammals. we have the same immune system and we have the same susceptibility to stress, which means that if we feel sick, the immune system weakens, and we need antibiotics because we're more likely to get serious infections. we've been thinking about this in the field of human medicine. we've taken measures, tried to tighten up, tried to understand what could happen. and don't forget that if we lose the antibiotic as a weapon, we're back to the days of my grandmother's mother, when what we think today are common infectious diseases, like a young child's ear infection, can once again become a deadly disease. we are not dealing with anything particularly easy in this respect and we should take it seriously. as i said, i'm very happy. there are of course details in this resolution which i would have liked to have had more of, or which i would have liked to have had differently, but the point is not that all the commas are included but that we are all willing to start the process. that is what i hope the commission will take up, because i think we will have a near unanimous yes tomorrow. i hope so, and i hope that it sends a strong signal that you have to listen. thank you, sir.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has tabled an opinion on the proposal. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank rapporteur marie-thérèse sanchez-schmid for her excellent work on this report. i am very pleased and very proud that the legal affairs committee has unanimously adopted our opinion and i am pleased that the majority of our views are included in your report. we look forward to broad support in the house. we are in an era where digital technologies and the internet are creating both great opportunities and great challenges for europe's cultural and creative sectors. we must maintain the foundations of intellectual property protection while taking the necessary steps to unleash the potential and creativity of modern technology. europe's cultural creators, technological innovators and, above all, europe's citizens deserve a well-functioning internal market, where creative content can flow freely and generously across our borders and where cultural creators are assured of being remunerated for their work. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for including the proposals of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights on increasing access to books for the blind and visually impaired. i hope that this will help these people to experience even more fully the joy and power of literature. free speech must be for all. thank you, sir.
madam president, i would like to thank you. despite the enormous importance of innovation for the economic and social development of europe, the eu has not yet had a single set of rules on innovation. it is therefore extremely good that this proposal has come from the commission and commissioner máire geoghegan-quinn. in this document and in the innovation union, when we are setting the rules that will apply, we have to be very careful that we try to simplify and eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy. simplification is incredibly important, as every researcher, every industry and every small business is raising it as the biggest obstacle to using eu money and working together in a focused way to create a better situation for innovation in europe. we also need to make sure that we have a much more efficient management. we must focus on the really big projects instead of spreading the money out in a variety of areas as in any other context. finally, the innovation union can be a really good tool in solving climate issues. thank you, sir.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the proposal for an ilo convention, supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers, on thursday 12 may. throughout the world, and particularly in the poorest countries, domestic services are among the lowest paid jobs. often there is a lack of proper contracts and social benefits. it is therefore right and proper that this service sector should be given special prominence in a recommendation to the ilo convention. the reason why i voted against the european parliament's resolution is the wording of paragraph 13, which calls on the eu member states to ratify the international convention on the rights of migrant workers, something which no eu country has done so far. i believe that the six core un conventions, which are universal and apply to all people, do not need to be supplemented by additional instruments. there is a great risk that the legitimacy of the conventions already adopted will be undermined, and i do not want to contribute to that. i would rather advocate a stronger compliance with the core mr conventions, the content of which obviously also applies to people who work close to home. this is something that too many signatory states seem to ignore today.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i agree with the previous speakers. it is extremely important that we have a climate and environmental policy that is based on facts. we need to have access to clearer and more reliable indicators in this area. the same conditions apply to environmental policy as to economic policy, redistributive policy, development policy and industrial policy. you cannot make rational decisions and bring about social change or social transformation without having access to facts. now we have a chance to get this. it's very important. the gdp measure does not work well in this particular area because it is too narrow. now we have an opportunity to work with a broader perspective. it is also of great value that we coordinate environmental statistics at european level. this will make it easier to compare the effects of environmental policy across member states, and it will give us a better picture of which policies are actually working and which are not, and which may even be counterproductive. once we have taken this decision at this sitting, i hope we can also ensure that it becomes an important part of the basis for the decisions that parliament and the member states will take in the future. i hope that this way of measuring the quality of a society is given high priority and that sufficient resources are allocated so that it can really work and not just become a paper product.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. thank you for your reply, commissioner olli rehn. at the end of june, a new head of the imf is expected to be appointed to replace dominique strauss-kahn, who is accused of a very serious crime which has unfortunately also damaged the imf's reputation. now, in these stormy times, a new competent head of this important global institution must therefore be appointed, and the process must be transparent. i welcome the candidacy of christine lagarde, the french minister of finance, as do my colleagues. she is a very competent person, as i think we all have experienced. it also has the support of several member states and the european commission. but why has it not been possible to agree on a common nomination procedure? it would have increased europe's influence. there's something we're missing. if we had a common procedure and if the commission had taken overall responsibility, that would also have strengthened the image of the eu, the euro and europe. article 138 of the treaty of lisbon provides for the strengthening of the euro's place in the international monetary system. i wonder why that opportunity has not been taken up? the commissioner is talking about one step at a time, but sometimes you may have to make a small leap to strengthen the position, especially in stormy times. i also think it is important to stress that the imf needs to be reformed on a large scale, as pervenche berès also clearly states in his report. that work of reform has begun. but the eu's representation in the imf also needs to be discussed and strengthened. we need a stronger imf that acts as a global lender. to sum up: we need a stronger and more representative imf in our new global world, and we need a stronger eu with a clearer voice. finally, commissioner rehn, sometimes you have to make a leap.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his eminent report on this mid-term review. i think there are three things that should be underlined. the first point is simplification – less bureaucracy – and we stated that when we started the 7th framework programme. it did become less bureaucratic, and i think researchers and others dealing with these projects are aware of that, but there is much more to do. and i think that in some ways we can put greater trust in the universities that have existed for centuries. they will not run away with the money. the second point is excellence. the whole value of our joint and common effort is that we are trying to add a special european value, providing excellence. we have all the member states financing their research and science and we also have, as has been mentioned, the structural funds. with regard to this framework programme, if we do not aim for excellence, we will lose the competitive edge that we need to have in the future. the third point is mobility. i think one of the striking things we have experienced is that the mobility we can achieve via the framework programme is creating the special climate and the special pre-conditions for excellence. and i am happy that the rapporteur has made the proposal for a research voucher, trying to secure that we have a spontaneous process for excellence between researchers in europe by creating and increasing their mobility. so once again, my thanks to the rapporteur.
madam president, i would like to thank you. canada is one of our most important trading partners. that is why this free trade agreement is one of the most important. it brings huge benefits, and all the studies show that trade can increase very much. many of my colleagues choose to focus on threats and risks, and to problematize, but i think it is important that we take a step back and focus on why we want these negotiations. the reason is the incredible potential we see that can be realized in growth, trade and development. it's something we all welcome. i have very high hopes for this agreement because it is so ambitious. we often say that all our free trade agreements should be ambitious, but this is really ambitious. this agreement has the potential to create more free trade, more free borders between europe and canada than canada and the united states have today! it's worth pointing out. it would be historic if we could bridge the atlantic to canada in terms of free trade. i would like to draw particular attention to the services sector. there are several issues that have been raised in relation to trade in services, but this is one of the most important areas of offensive that we have, particularly in the area of financial services. i would like to hear the commission give a brief description of how that part of the negotiations is going, because i know that there has been some resistance in this area. as i said, this is an important offensive interest for europe. i would like to conclude by making a request to the commission. don't let this drag on. make sure we don't lose momentum in these negotiations. that is what i see as the greatest threat, namely that conflicts over different issues take the focus away from the main issue. the important thing is to create more free trade. when we started these free trade negotiations, there was very positive feedback from all parties involved. i therefore think it is important that we ensure that we end in that spirit and that we do not let the negotiations drag on too long.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i have to answer to the honourable member. i do not think i mentioned the word oil sands at all in my speech, but i think it would be naive to imagine that the whole free trade agreement with canada would be about that. that would be losing perspective. of course we will have to make clear environmental demands in these free trade negotiations. we do this in all our free trade negotiations, but we cannot allow the whole free trade agreement with canada to be reduced to the issue of oil sands.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a big thank you to the rapporteur for an excellent work on a very difficult issue. the new rules, as many have pointed out, only call on the member states to use mortgages to improve the environment, and it is therefore important that we, as mr sterckx said, here in the european parliament, repeatedly remind our governments of the importance of following these recommendations. the idea is not that our drivers should pay for noise and environmental impact unless we also introduce measures to solve the problems, such as road treatment and other noise abatement measures. it is very important to prevent these charges from becoming just another tax on heavy road transport, as some of my colleagues have pointed out. we must continue to improve the environment and reduce carbon dioxide in europe, and it is therefore crucial to ensure that environmental taxes are actually used to reduce and eliminate the environmental problems that arise. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. tomorrow we will vote on whether bulgaria and romania should join the schengen area. as a social democrat, i take it for granted that all eu countries which meet all the high standards of cooperation should be allowed to participate. it is of course important that we set tough requirements for accession to schengen, but these must be the same objective criteria for everyone. anything else is political hypocrisy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the accession of bulgaria and romania is not delayed. tonight, objections have been raised in reference to corruption in both countries, but this is not something that can be tackled through the schengen system. commissioner cecilia malmström presented a package to fight corruption which we can work on from the outside. it is a question for the whole union, not just for romania and bulgaria. similarly, the fight against organised crime requires more cooperation, not more closed doors. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has tabled an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? as rapporteur for the committee on equality, i would point out that when the major decisions are taken on economic and financial and monetary matters, taxation and trade policy, all decisions affecting the budget and our opportunities, the influence of women today is very small. in order to achieve a modern future budget, the committee on gender equality has highlighted important issues for the future in the budgetary work. women's skills and experience must be taken into account. we point out that gender mainstreaming is needed, gender budgeting. i hear members talking about the future budget and increased resources and so on. it is not just a question of increasing resources, but of having the political courage to also re-prioritize budgetary work and to make use of the skills that actually exist among women. if we do that, we will not always have to call for more and more budgetary resources, but we can use the budget to create a modern future policy.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu is facing greater challenges today than it has in a very long time. we will try to end the economic crisis and at the same time avoid new crises. we're going to deal with increased globalization and competition. this will require major cross-border investments in areas such as research. we will address environmental and climate challenges and a sustainable energy supply. we will reverse the devastating trend towards permanent high unemployment and social exclusion that europe is experiencing. and not least, we should try to help with the crisis in our southern neighbours. unfortunately, at a time when we need solidarity and a well-functioning european cooperation most, the threats to the european tank are also growing. at the moment, they are targeting the eu budget, among other things. we in the sure committee understand that it may seem strange that when many member states are cutting their own budgets, we are asking for more money for the eu budget after 2013. but at the same time it would be completely unreasonable to ignore these challenges, to give in to eu scepticism and to abandon the political ambitions that the member states have given us, for example, through the treaty of lisbon. it should also be remembered that large cuts do not benefit the most vulnerable, greece, ireland and portugal, but on the contrary reduce the eu's ability to support them. her majesty's government speaks only for the net-payers and not for the others. that is why in the sure report we have tried to strike a reasonable balance between the necessary ambition, restraint and forward-looking reform of policy areas such as agricultural policy. we have come up with a proposal for a five per cent increase in appropriations for the next period compared to 2013. a big thank you to the rapporteur, mr salvador garriga polledo, who has managed to secure a large majority for his report. the point is that this extra 5% should be used precisely for investment in the key areas of the future, particularly research, growth and employment. those needs are clear, and without money we will not be able to meet those challenges. but that also means that we must be able to change our view of the eu budget. remember that this is still a lower eu budget in relation to the economies of the member states than when, for example, sweden joined in the 1990s, despite the enlargement from 15 to 27 member states. the eu budget has also grown much more slowly than the national budgets of the member states, such as the uk, which is also not apparent when her majesty's government speaks. i am personally convinced that austerity is not the only way out of the crisis. we need to find the way back to growth and jobs by finding resources for investment, and that is where these joint efforts are needed.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i must say that in all my years in this parliament, the work of the sure committee has been the most fun, the most visionary, in short the most fun: it is fun, it is beautiful. everything that is necessary and good for the future of europe is included. however, i am personally extremely concerned about what we did not do, and that is to set priorities. they've taken on all the new challenges, but they've also kept all the old ones. it may not be possible to do both. we should have prioritised, we should have prioritised very much harder, but what is most worrying in this context is that we have left the priorities to the council of ministers. that is no legacy for the future, my friends.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for highlighting the number of challenges in front of us. i also welcome the very clear message in the report calling for a significant increase in research and science because that is one of the priorities we need to have. i would like to say – and i say this to the commission – that politics and leadership are about priorities. without priorities there is no leadership. there are always those tasks and challenges that are more important than others. that is the case with the budget of the european union as well as in member states. we need to further increase research and science, but we also need to increase the amount of science and research in regional funding. we need to take into consideration the development of the agricultural markets and decrease the spending there. but let us remember that we need to set priorities at all levels, at the european level as well as in member states. i must say that i dislike eu-bashing or brussels-bashing, but i also dislike member-states-bashing, because it diminishes the importance of the spending we have in the member states: healthcare, social security, pensions, education. this is not a conflict between the eu and the member states. this is an ongoing struggle for leadership and priorities. if we do not dare to set those priorities we do not show leadership. i must say that if we cannot understand the tough situation member states are in today, we do not understand the reality for citizens. we need to set priorities and not solve problems just by increasing budgets. so i would ask the commissioner to show leadership, to be courageous and to remember that research and science, infrastructure... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives from the public. we see that a politically created credit rating agency could be an opportunity to put pressure on the large private institutions. at the same time, we see the potential problems. it would therefore be useful to have a better idea of the pros and cons of such a body by means of a thorough investigation. a better knowledge base is a prerequisite for further discussion on this issue.
in writing. - i welcome the report's focus on the common challenges facing europe. it addresses climate and environmental issues as part of all policy areas, the struggle for democracy, peace and freedom globally, and the critical need for both research, innovation and infrastructure. the europe 2020 strategy and the focus on actions with european added value have been central to the discussions during the preparation of the report. i am deeply concerned, however, that the power to give priority has been handed over to the council of ministers. the european parliament should have dared to give priority. despite all the wishes for an inclusive, sustainable and competitive europe, there is no way in the world to finance everything at once from the eu budget. i want a realistic and workable negotiating strategy and this was not achieved because there are no clear priorities in this report. that is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - i believe that the eu budget must be given sufficient resources to finance the commitments made. at the same time, i would stress that the eu should take a restrictive approach and provide these resources by redistributing them within the existing eu budget, i do not think that the overall size needs to increase. i would prefer to see the agricultural budget reduced in favour of the priorities set out in the eu 2020 strategy: research and development, green transition, etc. i therefore also do not believe that the 2013 budgetary level for agriculture should be maintained, but i welcome the fact that agricultural aid should be distributed equally between member states. i also believe it is very important to make eu administrative expenditure more efficient, one way of doing this being to increase transparency in the process of allocating and using this expenditure. i do not think that the own resources ceiling should be revised, as eu policies should be able to be financed within the current income ceiling. i also see a need to review the system of eu own resources. the current system is very complicated and lacks transparency. the rebates have not made the system fairer, but rather have given rise to a number of new exceptions and corrections. however, a change in this system does not imply any direct taxation right for the eu, the union does not have such a competence in the treaty. any change to the own resources system requires the approval of all member states in order to enter into force.
in writing. - we moderates in the european parliament voted against the proposal at the vote on the report on the eu's long-term budget in strasbourg on 8 june 2011. we did so because the proposal lacks the priorities between important and less important expenditure which we consider necessary. instead of showing leadership and focusing on what makes europe grow and competitive, the proposal calls for a 5% increase in the budget to circumvent the need to prioritise. the european parliament has voted to increase the eu's budget to €1 billion, with the aim of reducing the deficit by €1 billion. that's a line we can't support. instead, we should phase out support for the cap and the structural funds, but unfortunately the proposal that was voted on is going in the opposite direction. while we voted against the report as a whole, we welcome the wording in the proposal that a 'significant increase' in funding for science and research should be implemented. this is something we've worked hard on, and having this included is a step in the right direction.
in writing. - we believe that the eu budget must be given sufficient resources to finance the commitments made. at the same time, we would stress that the eu should, as far as possible, take a restrictive stance and provide these resources through reallocation within the existing eu budget. we would prefer to see the agricultural budget reduced in favour of the priorities set out in the eu 2020 strategy: research and development, green transition, etc. we therefore also do not believe that the 2013 budgetary level for agriculture should be maintained, but welcome the fact that agricultural aid should be distributed equally between member states. we also believe it is very important to make eu administrative expenditure more efficient, one way of doing this being to increase transparency in the process of allocating and using this expenditure. we do not think that the own resources ceiling should be revised, as eu policy should be financed within the current revenue ceiling. we also see a need to review the system of eu own resources. the current system is very complicated and lacks transparency. the rebates have not made the system fairer, but rather have given rise to a number of new exceptions and corrections. however, a change in this system does not imply any direct taxation right for the eu, the union does not have such a competence in the treaty. any change to the own resources system requires the approval of all member states in order to enter into force.
in writing. − we welcome the report's focus on the common challenges we face: climate and environmental issues, the fight for democracy, peace and freedom globally, and the critical need for both research, innovation and infrastructure. the eu 2020 strategy and the focus on actions with european added value have permeated the discussions in the preparation of the report. however, we are deeply concerned that the power to give priority has been handed over to the council of ministers. this is very unfortunate for the european parliament. although all the wishes for an inclusive, sustainable and competitive europe are shared, it is impossible to finance everything at once from the eu budget. we want a realistic and workable negotiating strategy, but in the absence of clear priorities in this report, we consider that this objective has not been met. our proposals to modernise the agricultural budget are not included in the final document. for these reasons, among others, we abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - when the european parliament voted on wednesday 8 june on investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework for a competitive and sustainable europe for all, i chose to vote against. at a time when the eu member states are under severe budgetary pressure, i am disappointed to see that the european parliament, instead of prioritising, is choosing to increase the budget by at least 5%. the european parliament voted in favour of continuing the contribution to areas that lock the european economy into old patterns, including by allocating at least the same amount as for the 2013 budget year to the cap. i also oppose the european parliament's proposal to reform the eu's finances by introducing a system of own resources. the commission notes that the measure is not imputable to the state.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am the rapporteur for the report on bilateral investment agreements in the transitional period after the lisbon treaty and, after careful consideration of the parliament's vote and the council's proposal, i would like to withdraw as rapporteur for this report because both the council's and parliament's position is so unilaterally in favour of investors' interests and does not take into account the need for transparency. in addition, the old member states do not take account of the needs of the new member states for new contracts, and the rights of investors are not balanced in any way by environmental, social and other legal requirements. i therefore feel that i cannot defend the position of parliament and i cannot lead these negotiations to a successful conclusion, so i ask to be allowed to hand over the task of rapporteur to the chairman of the committee.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this is not an internal german issue, but a european issue. it is vital that nuclear facilities across europe are both safe and seen to be safe. the mistakes of the first banking stress test must therefore not be repeated; we do not need another pointless pr exercise. it is the responsibility of the commission to make sure that the stress tests are conducted in a solid, transparent and comprehensive manner and that they have real consequences. if a plant fails the test and if the issues raised cannot be remedied, it should be shut down. the proposed stress tests are, however, too weak. the alde group has called for the entire safety culture and the human factor to be included in the test. this is unfortunately not the case. i sincerely hope that the commission finds another way forward to test the safety culture. for instance, i expect the commission to put forward proposals as part of the revision of the nuclear safety directive to remedy these problems. this includes the issues that you raised, commissioner, of security in respect of decommissioning and waste. the stress test also lacks clear wording on the need for the independence and transparency of the tests. there will be a peer review, with representatives from member states other than the one where the concerned nuclear plant is situated, but they will not necessarily be fully independent. that is a problem. these are all problems for the credibility of the tests, but the stress tests are only the beginning. we need a strategy which goes beyond this and that provides european common standards guaranteeing a high level of nuclear safety and information. the safety of nuclear power plants is a european issue. looking ahead, we should implement stricter safety standards than the international atomic energy agency recommendations and the rest of the world. if you look at the information and the transparency in the fukushima accident, there is a real need for a european platform and for european regulation on this issue. european citizens expect and deserve the best possible safety for their nuclear power plants. there is precious little time and there is a heavy responsibility on the european commission, and certainly more now on the member states, who are weakening and backing off from what they promised initially after what happened in japan. we ask the commission to assume its responsibilities and we ask the council, which is not here, to meet the expectations of the european citizens when it comes to nuclear safety in europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. sudan is now in a very sensitive phase ahead of the day of freedom on 9 july this year when sudan will be divided into two states. it is vital that the eu continues to focus its assistance on building the institutions needed in a functioning free state. we all know that the situation around the horn of africa is extremely sensitive, we know that democratic traditions are difficult, we know that the situation of women is extremely difficult and we know that there is a problem with pirates. i would also like to stress in this context the importance of being able to exercise human rights, to be able to speak freely and to demonstrate freely. this applies to the whole of the horn of africa, and not least to the swedish citizen dawit isaak who is imprisoned in eritrea. the whole region needs democratic construction and support from the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. resolutions like this always have an extremely diplomatic language. i think that this time the assessment of relations with russia has been too modest. we know that the human rights situation in russia is under criticism and we know that it is almost impossible to express one's political opinion freely. we also know that there are many people in prison for the very reason that they have tried to use their human rights. this is not acceptable. i also think that the wording is too vague when it comes to energy policy. in fact, the criteria we set for climate and the environment must also apply to oil or gas imported from russia. we are making very high demands on norway, it is imported gas into the eu, and the same demands should apply to russia.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in general, we in this parliament devote far too little time to the problems of small businesses. a new form of fraud has been established, whereby small businesses are tricked into advertising in various forms of registers. then, when they discover that it's fraud, they're charged the amount, and the bill is passed on to collection agencies and the amount grows and triples or ten-times in a very short time. the latest is that such structured large-scale fraud is also cross-border, making it almost impossible for individual small business owners to obtain justice, without being chased by recovery agencies without being able to stop it and without being able to report or catch the criminal. in fact, it also means that european police cooperation must be strengthened, because we must be able to see these large crossborder patterns, because it is not a matter of individual small frauds, but of large organised circles of fraudulent activity involving very large sums, millions of euros. that is why this resolution is good, but it is far too weak and we must move forward with european cooperation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank albert deß for a good job. i shall now turn to one aspect of agricultural policy. these are the gigantic challenges facing humanity and the world. it's the climate, it's the biodiversity, it's the fertile waterways. we can pull any amount we want. in this context, i think we should recognize that it is the farmer who is dealing with our nature and the conditions for our life and our future on a daily basis. it is in agriculture and forestry that the best tools are found and it is the use of these environmental tools that the farmer should be paid for, and the farmer should be paid well for this! so i would like to see us moving a little bit from thinking about income subsidies, which are difficult to explain, to making sure that we pay for the work that the farmer does. so we're going from subsidies to payment for services rendered. the most important thing for agriculture is, of course, to produce food. plenty of food, good food, but my view is that food should be paid for in the market. the environmental services can't be paid for there.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. europe is in a difficult situation, but it is precisely in times of crisis that the eu is usually able to take bold decisions. the fact that we can decide tomorrow on stricter and clearer rules for economic governance is of the utmost importance, not only for the countries of the euro zone. we're all affected by it. europe's leaders have been stumbling and creating uncertainty. the nervousness has spread. the messages have changed from day to day. the decision tomorrow may show that parliament is capable of making difficult decisions in difficult times. greece cheated on the euro. that's right, you did. that is why the leaders of germany and france should now show clear leadership and take responsibility for the future of europe and not keep muttering. the stability and growth pact must be reformed and the rules tightened. pacta sunt servanda the deal must be kept not a new greece! in sweden we know that the path to stability and growth is sound public finances. udo bullman can ask his swedish party friends. i hope that the swedish social democrats will support the proposal, especially since we have passed rules protecting swedish collective agreements. the last obstacle to the swedish social democrats' participation in the process of sweden joining the europlus pact has now been removed. if sweden is to be part of the eu's core, it is not possible to patrol behind eu critics from hungary, the czech republic and the uk. it's not a happy group.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the nuclear debate often divides us into different camps. we are for or against, we want a rapid phase-out or no phase-out at all. the starting point is different in the case of nuclear safety. we agree that we want the highest possible level of safety, and that of course also applies to nuclear waste, for which we will be responsible, regardless of the lifetime of the nuclear power plant, for ourselves and for many, many generations after us. the waste must be managed in the best possible way and the eu directive must be designed to meet these objectives. the question of the export of nuclear waste, which has already been mentioned by several speakers, is of particular importance. of course, eu countries must continue to be able to conclude agreements with each other on waste, but we should not export to countries outside the eu. it's a moral imperative, and we have to live up to it.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tabled an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to highlight three priorities on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. firstly, the new european supervisory authority must be adequately funded. its ability to grow stronger rapidly is crucial for financial market stability. when the authority is given new tasks, it must be given increased resources without delay. in the longer term, we must look more closely at whether the staffing levels currently planned are really sufficient. secondly, the commission must be ready to increase its human resources in the economic field once the economic governance package has been adopted. the updated rulebooks need to be effectively administered from the outset. thirdly, there must be room in the budget for improving the quality of eu statistics. inadequate economic statistics may be one of the causes of the crisis.
in writing. - we have chosen to support the activation of the eu globalisation fund once again - this time to help a total of some 2 800 people who lost their jobs in belgium - as europe is still suffering from the economic crisis and special times call for special measures. however, we believe that in future we should rather use existing instruments - in particular the european social fund - to increase the employability of those who have been notified or dismissed. there should be no need for a globalisation fund in the next budgetary period.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in several of the countries concerned, there is widespread corruption where the money from the agreements does not go to the local population. in addition, there is often no monitoring of compliance with the agreements. in its negotiating position, the commission relied, inter alia, on the results of an ex post evaluation of the current protocols carried out by external experts. these evaluations are classified by the commission and we believe that they must be made available to the european parliament as soon as possible.
in writing. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption. we are critical of the current structure and scope of the system, but nevertheless the way in which the funds are used is important. this own-initiative report does not advocate any additional money for the funds and, moreover, stresses that research and development should be given priority in the appropriations, which allowed us to support the report.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism. we oppose further control of the european investment bank and the eu's involvement in urban planning. however, the report does not advocate any additional eu funding and also emphasises the role of cities as centres of growth, which allowed us to vote in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. − as swedish social democrats, we see the broad reform package for stronger economic governance within the eu as an important tool for bringing order to the european economy. a stronger stability and growth pact, increased transparency and discipline in national budgetary frameworks and a new system for preventing economic imbalances are all key elements in the stabilisation of public finances and financial markets. the fact that we have today chosen not to vote for five of the six reports is not because we are against stricter regulations. on the contrary, we believe that such a thing must be put in place quickly. the aim of our voting strategy has instead been to send a clear signal that certain tendencies in the package towards excessive austerity should be replaced by a more balanced approach in the final negotiating rounds. a regulatory framework that does not provide a reasonable margin for forward-looking investment and good growth cannot be sustainable in the long term.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. we have therefore voted against the proposals which called for this. however, we support the requirement of a spending review of all areas of activity to ensure that all spending is worth the money with a view to identifying possible savings. we also believe that existing funds should be redistributed first before new ones are called for. however, as this proposal was not accepted, we decided to abstain in the final vote.
in writing. - we have voted in favour of the report on the mandate of the tripartite meeting on the draft budget for 2012. we believe it is very important that work on the eu 2020 strategy starts immediately and that the strategy is given sufficient financial resources so that the failure of the lisbon strategy is not repeated. we also believe it is important that the eu has the resources it needs to cope with its new tasks under the lisbon treaty. we do not agree that the level of payments from the eu budget should be frozen in 2012, and therefore we do not support amendment no 16. the payments are based on previous years' budgetary decisions on commitments, so the level of payments is only a consequence of previous commitments. what the eu has promised, the union must inevitably pay. we are also keen to see the eu pursuing a responsible budgetary policy and therefore welcome the calls to continue identifying and evaluating negative priorities. however, we would point out that we do not consider it necessary to continue eu support for the 'fruit in school' and 'support for the most deprived' programmes, as we believe that the measures under these programmes are better implemented at national level. we also do not agree that efforts to make the transition to more environmentally friendly and sustainable agriculture can only be undertaken without reducing the competitiveness of eu farmers. unfortunately, these parts could not be voted on separately.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr pascal canfin, for his excellent work and, above all, for the way he has conducted the trialogue. it's been a pleasure, even if you don't agree with me. we need a european framework for blanking and short selling. i think we can all agree on that. we need more transparency and openness. nothing can go on in secret any longer. we need more scope for regulation, and we also need more scope for european regulation through esma. however, and i understand that i am sworn in in this house, it is important for financial markets to have the possibility of blanking. it actually provides liquidity on the ground and exposes mispricing and stock bubbles. the issue now is whether the eu should introduce a ban on the blanking of naked credit swaps. in the context of the greek crisis, it has been alleged that market participants have used these credit default swaps extensively to speculate against the greek crisis. the commission report last year showed that this was not the case. it didn't happen. there is also no evidence that the german ban during the financial crisis had the intended effect, markus ferber. on the contrary, academic expertise considers that it had a negative effect. the starting point should be not to impose market restrictions if we do not know what is going to happen. my group and i are of the opinion that - and this is in line with what klaus-heiner lehne said and what the commissioner says - experimenting with a ban at this time can be harmful. the burden of proof should be on those who are going to impose this ban. we are in favour, and i am in favour, of the regulatory authorities being able to prohibit or restrict blanking temporarily in exceptional cases where there is market manipulation and other things. but a permanent ban today would make an already uncertain market even more uncertain. the speaker accepted to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8))
mr president, i would rather use my mother tongue, but ok. mr giegold, i tried to explain that in swedish and i think the burden of proof is upon you to say why you should ban naked cdss today, because exactly as the commissioner said, there is turmoil out there in the market. we do not know what is going to happen – that is also what mr lehne said. this is the crucial issue now: you do not know what is going to happen, i do not know what is going to happen, therefore be cautious, my dear friend sven giegold, be cautious. we are not dealing with theories now. we are dealing with a dramatic economic situation in europe today, so you have a responsibility to know what kind of proposals you are passing through this house.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? commissioner, i have to ask you. madam president, in this case i urgently need a broad consensus, so i will take another tone in this debate. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the commission, the committee and the secretariat of the group for a very good job. we were hoping to get to the finish line, but we're not quite there yet. investor protection is a consumer protection for securities and money handled by banks and investment companies on behalf of clients. this means that you as a customer can be compensated by the state if an institution that goes bankrupt cannot release your assets in the event of fraud or negligence or serious miscalculation and error. however, risk investments are not reimbursed, for example if equity investments fall in value. i shall take the committee's amendments point by point. the committee also calls for the commission to be given the right to adopt a decision on the application of the directive on the protection of the environment. the most important reason for proposing 100 000 is that there are countries which have higher compensation than the proposed 50 000, such as the united kingdom, france and spain. we do not want to lower the level of compensation and thus weaken consumer protection in these countries. the protection should also be as high for investments as for bank savings accounts. we need people who want to invest in the future of entrepreneurship. the committee also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. investment firms that mislead investors and provide poor advice in investment decisions should be able to provide a basis for remuneration. an example is when a fund adviser advises older people to invest in high-risk funds with a long investment horizon. the committee also believes that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected. the taxpayers should not be responsible for the bill afterwards. that is why we should introduce ex ante funding so that there is money in funds in the event of a company going bankrupt. the target level is proposed to be reduced from 0,5% to 0,3% of the assets of the investment company. the process is being accelerated so that all member states will achieve full funding of their funds after five years instead of ten. the calculation of the fees shall be based on the potential substitution risk of an undertaking. the investment companies that take the most risks should also contribute more to the financing than other companies that take less risks. fourthly, the lending mechanism must be adjusted. the commission has proposed a mandatory credit mechanism, whereby systems can borrow from each other, between countries. to avoid moral hazard, deliberate underfunding, we propose that the mandatory lending mechanism not be used until all systems have built up their funds and reached the target level. after the five-year period, a system shall be eligible to borrow from other systems in the european union, provided that the system in this situation had previously reached the target level of funding. the committee also calls for the commission to investigate the inclusion of ucits funds in the directive. we have had a very hard debate in the committee on whether or not to include equity and interest funds, so-called ucits funds. we believe that further consideration is needed. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has also called for the introduction of a single currency, the euro, which would be the currency of the european union. the committee also calls for the introduction of a european union-wide reporting obligation, i.e. an obligation to report to the commission and esma on the functioning of national systems. the issue of investor protection is important for consumers, investors and financial stability. i would need a strong message from parliament tomorrow. i hope that i will get support in the vote so that we can start negotiations with the council as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? although you may not have noticed it before, i have a strong belief in the free market and people's ability to make free choices. but at the same time i want to make it very clear that i too strongly believe in consumer protection. it is clear that this directive is so important precisely from this point of view. so, my friends, you who may criticize me in other contexts, here we are all on the same page. the ordinary investor should be able to know that there is a certain degree of security in the investments he makes. it is of enormous importance for the future of europe. that's how i look at it, and that's how i look at confidence in the financial markets. mr barnier, you spoke of ucits and forms of financing; 0.3 can be discussed when we go up to 100 000. i agree with that, but at the same time the council's view is that we should have a much, much lower funding mechanism. we may not know exactly where we're going to end up. i also think it is reasonable to include ucits in the case of mifid and ucits 5, but i am sure we can agree on this. as regards bad advice, i also hope that we can find a solution because i think it is an important point for the ordinary investors in europe at the moment. finally, i would like to express my gratitude to the commissioner, mr gauzès, ms berès, mr kamall and mr giegold for their very fruitful cooperation, and i hope that we can close this dossier in the autumn.
rapporteur. − mr president, did you know that retail provides almost 20 million jobs and continued to employ throughout the crisis? our report is about creating more jobs in europe. the time has come to recognise that retailers are drivers of growth. did you know, and can you imagine, that if you buy a toy in one member state for your child, you have to retest it to get additional certification in another member state? did you know that you have to repack a cheese to market it on a cross-border basis? what a waste. our report is about removing borders and barriers to the free movement of goods and services. this is the backbone of european integration and the single market. for the first time we are putting retail on the map of eu policy-making. this has never been done before. i am very grateful to shadows and colleagues who have made a great contribution in making a cross-political commitment to call for an action plan for retail, based on a long-term and holistic approach. i am really glad that this has been anchored in the new single market act. we are not shying away from controversial issues: unfair commercial practices, private labels, extra fees, to name but a few, as well as tax and trade laws. i know how many colleagues care about people and consumers with reduced mobility or who live in remote and isolated areas or in town centres. we are calling for action on this as well. actually our entire report is a call for action. we are asking member states to implement and enforce existing internal market legislation and competition law, goods packages, service directives, the small business act and to remove the hidden and hideous new restrictions that have been put up in recent years. we call on the commission to take tough measures against breaches of internal market legislation, to crack down on unfair commercial practices, to create a true common european payment area and to remove obstacles, especially for e-commerce. we asked the stakeholders to accept their shared responsibility – with regard to the environment and corporate social responsibility – and to continue to innovate as they are doing. they also have to invest more in skills and competence-building. i am really grateful that colleagues in committee overwhelmingly trusted my line, based on self-regulation. measures imposed top-down and parachuted will not yield better results or be more efficient than measures that the retailers throughout the supply chain would themselves adopt, share, shape and own. this will require much more commitment from us in public-private partnerships. this is my first report. in eight months of consultation it has been a fantastic journey, which has already produced results. we have seen more direct, more intense and more constructive dialogue from people whose relationships used to be solely confrontational. i am very encouraged to see these signs of commitment and shared responsibility from the retail community. please, colleagues, let us give voluntary initiative a chance. but we also want to see concrete results. the time for denial is over. that is why, in the report, we gave ourselves an instrument to continue to assess progress and keep all parties engaged with the yearly retail round table. this is a living report. from the vikings to venice, trade has always been a force of progress, economic development and peace. let us keep up our commitment to putting the real economy at the centre of the political agenda. we should not give in to the wind of protectionism that is blowing throughout europe. we should keep our commitment and stand up for a truly border-free europe.
mr president, to have the eu presidency is not only about decision-making, it is also highly symbolic. it is especially important to represent and promote our core european values of human rights and freedom of expression. therefore, prime minister orbán, i welcome the way you put the roma issues on the table, but i regret that the hungarian presidency failed to show the same commitment to these values from a domestic perspective. in a way it is ironic that the hungarian presidency has done such a good job in extending our eu family and our values to croatia. as the vice-chair of parliament’s croatia delegation, i am extremely pleased that croatia’s accession negotiations have been concluded during the presidency. thanks to hungary, the enlargement process has been kept alive and moved forward, a great and historic achievement. i am also pleased that hungary, despite the difficult circumstances, has skilfully and with conviction steered the energy dossiers, including such issues as nuclear safety – with stress tests following fukushima – transparency and integrity of energy markets – with the remit regulation – the council conclusions on energy efficiency and the energy road map. my last remark is on the incoming polish presidency. following poland’s behaviour at the last environmental council, i am deeply worried that it is not taking the energy climate issues as seriously as it should and as hungary did.
mr president, i am very glad that my report has been voted through with a vast majority. at a time when everybody discusses debt, austerity and economic governance it is important to also put the real economy at the centre of the debate. with this report we have recognised the dignity of retail as a driver for growth, competitiveness and jobs. i regret, however, that parliament did not schedule a debate on this report. only 40 minutes were given for the rapporteur, the commission and catch-the-eye. it is in contradiction with the fact that we have put on the political map, for the first time, retail as a driver for growth. it is even more regrettable that there was not a single social democrat or a green in the chamber during the plenary last night, and that no one asked to take the floor. this is a lack of respect for the 20 million people that are employed in the retail sector, for the smes that are struggling to survive. it is a very controversial area. we are talking about market dominance. we are talking about access for consumers in remote areas, in town centres, private labels, lots of things that require a debate between political groups.
mr president, i understand that the issue of gmo cultivation may concern europe’s people, but there is too much emotion in the debate. we have to move from perception and myth to scientific research. it is very important not to undermine the european safety agency if it ascertains, on the basis of data and facts, that a specific gmo is safe. it is, of course, necessary to respect the right of member states to decide how to use their own territory, but i voted against. if we enable the cultivation of gmos to be banned for reasons of public order, ethics or public morality we open a pandora’s box by enabling society to decide what to ban on the basis of what is popular and not what is safe. we need harmonised rules in the european union based on science. in the last ten years, over eur 200 million has been spent on research and risk assessment and so far no evidence has been found to show that gmo crops are harmful. we have to think about feeding 8 billion people in the world and a future generation. research has to continue. we have to find modern breeds of crops.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. we believe that revenues derived from the implementation of eu policies, i.e. in this case fines and interest on late payments, which arise as a direct consequence of eu legislation, should also reasonably remain in the eu budget and be used for other eu expenditure instead of being "sent back" to the member states.
in the light of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the future of the eu, the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the future of the eu's external relations. the report is very good in many respects and sets out a number of important principles for the responsible use of union aid. as a member of the committee on development and also a colleague in the group of the party of european socialists to the author of the report, it would of course have been natural for me to support the report and vote in favour of it in the plenary. however, the vote in the committee on development was an unfortunate compromise between the political groups in my view, and a reference to the introduction of a financial transaction tax was inserted in paragraph 22. i am convinced that such a tax would harm rather than help world development, and therefore i could not vote in favour of the report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is now facing a lot of criticism from a number of member states, and of course from many media and some political forces, for having put forward a proposal for a framework that is too ambitious, too expensive and too far-reaching. but we cannot set a framework that will last until 2020 based on the extreme austerity hysteria that is prevailing in europe today. that would be completely unreasonable. i don't agree with you. let me be cautiously positive on a few points. i think it is good that the commission is proposing more spending on research and development, that innovation and training are being strengthened and that there are proposals for more money for infrastructure. that's exactly the investment we've been asking for. the scope of the cap is debatable, but its focus has become greener and fairer. it is also a step in the right direction. as regards own resources, it is of course more direct, fairer and a step in the right direction. i am also cautiously positive about the rules. we have more flexibility, at least some attempts at simplification, more conditionality, and more guiding strategic guidelines. so that's pretty good. i am very worried about the future, however, because we risk being caught in a worst-case scenario, with some member states demanding budget cuts or freezes. other member states will fight to preserve agricultural policy and the structural funds, and then there will be no money left for research and development and investment in infrastructure. this is a worst-case scenario that we all need to help prevent. i therefore welcome the constructive attitude of the polish presidency. i hope that the future presidencies and the majority of the council can be persuaded not to tear this proposal apart, which would lead to a settlement that would actually be a worst-case scenario. let us now help parliament, the council and the commission to build on the positive aspects of the proposal so that we can look to the future until 2020 with some optimism.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. it has been a long and difficult negotiation, but now we are finished and we have got something that is much better than the current situation, although i think it was a lost opportunity where we could have had a quick snapshot and could have informed consumers about high levels of, for example, salt and sugar. it is also regrettable that the alcohol lobby has succeeded in removing alcohol from this proposal instead of informing consumers. how many of you here know the intoxicating effects of alcohol? i guess everyone does. but how many people in the audience know that alcohol is 1.5 times more calorie-intensive than sugar? people have a right to know. but i'm very happy with the end of the cheat meal. now, there's gonna be blueberries in the food if there's blueberries on the package. now you're gonna find out that your ham on that sandwich is glued together from several different pieces. you will also learn that the marzipan you buy is made from apricot kernels instead of almonds. you will also find out if there is a lot of water instead of meat in the chicken coop. vegetable oil will be labelled, and that's excellent. we are starting with the origin labelling of meat, and i hope that the investigation will quickly show that we can move on to meat in products. many consumers want to avoid long transport journeys and want to promote producers who produce good meat under good conditions. it is important that this be included after the evaluation, but we shall at least start with the meat pieces. i am also glad that nanotechnology, when used, will be marked out for those who want to know. with trans fats we did not get the decision that parliament wanted, but we did get a decision on labelling. but now we're getting an investigation, and it might end in a ban. i think it's the easiest and fastest way to get rid of cardiovascular disease, and it's cheap and effective. the technology to create trans fats is ancient. we can eliminate it. i hope that's what the investigation will show. i am glad that the labelling of allergens is more clear, and i am also glad that you as a consumer will be able to identify vegetarian food quickly throughout europe. and finally, welcome the exemption for micro-enterprises where the owner himself can inform the consumer. it's good, it's good. no unnecessary red tape for them, it's going to be regulated locally.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am one of those who are very happy that we have now got our demand for mandatory origin labelling of all meat through. it is in great demand among consumers and also among many producers, not least swedish pig and chicken farmers who follow higher animal welfare standards than many of their european and other international colleagues, and who today are forced to compete on unfair terms. they really welcome this to give the consumer the opportunity to make a choice that is better for the animals and for the environment. we would have preferred to extend the mandatory requirements for origin labelling to composite products. because, as my colleague glenis willmott has just said, unfortunately, consumers today are often misled. to make a fully informed choice, they needed the information readily available on the packaging. we hope to move on this matter very soon. there are other disappointments: trans fats. we would have liked to see a label, preferably a ban, of course, but until then a label. it would be a cheap way to get away or get this kind of product off the market. i am also pleased that we are getting a mandatory requirement for labelling of nanomaterials. it's been important to me. i am also glad that we are establishing the requirement to indicate the content per 100 grams or per 100 ml. it really makes it easier for the consumer to make fair comparisons.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank mr roth-behrendt and the commissioner. 12 to 15 years ago, we had a nightmare. the images on television were indeed hellish and the fear that spread across europe was nightmarish. the situation cannot be described as anything but an anxiety-filled nightmare. now that we are out of this, it was obvious to ban meat and bone meal altogether. we didn't know where the disease was coming from and we didn't know where it was going to end. it has been 10 or 15 years and we know a little more, but i ask you to remember that we still do not know everything. i am very glad that commissioner dalli has raised the question of antibiotic resistance, because it will be at least as bad, and much worse for public health, but it does not give us any dramatic images of hell, and therefore it will be more difficult to access. however, i think it is time to reconsider the total ban on meat and bone meal. we have a very acute shortage of protein and feed in europe. it's a little sinful to throw food away when we could use it for good one more time. i now turn to the commissioner: when it comes to this, when it comes to animal welfare, when it comes to antibiotic resistance or when it comes to animal transport, it is again and again implementation, control, compliance that is the key. without it, we can completely disregard the need to write new laws.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i cannot accept any new counter-terrorism measures until the commission has carried out a fundamental review of all existing counter-terrorism legislation and examined whether it is cost-effective and proportionate, and whether it protects privacy, health and the economy. let's not fool ourselves into thinking that privacy can be protected. this technique takes an image and then processes it. the image must be stored in order to be processed. there's always a risk that the picture could end up in the wrong hands. in terms of efficiency, you can hide things in your mouth, and there are a whole host of other ways to circumvent the technology. only the passive technique can be considered safe for human health. it is good that we are abolishing the liquid regulations, but it is ridiculous to think that we have any security at airports when everything that is needed to make a bomb can be put in a medicine bag and the rest of the ingredients can be bought in duty-free shops. if only you could get duty-free goods when you land, it would be safe. the terrorists won't stop here, even if the technology works. the more power, the less risk means they'll go to boats, trains, subways and malls. we'll have scanners from the time we leave the bb until we get to the morgue. that's not a future i want!
mr president, i would like to thank you. as you have already heard, mr prime minister, we in the socialist group have very high hopes for the polish presidency. you represent a strong and important state in the baltic sea region which can play a much greater role in european cooperation. but i want to be straightforward: there is one issue that worries us, and that is climate policy. the kyoto protocol expires in six months. it is poland, as the eu presidency, which is responsible for whether this climate agreement is followed by something new or whether it runs into the sand, and that is no small thing. the eu stands for ambitious and realistic climate goals. the ultimate aim is, of course, to prevent disasters, but it is also a matter of linking crisis and employment policies with climate policy. it's about people's trust, as you yourself said in your introduction. there must be a long-term view in politics. the baton must be passed on. the call to you, mr prime minister, is to push forward the eu's climate policy and not to bury it, because this is a serious matter.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. mr. secretary of state! i'm not going to let you do this. the crisis is not over, we know that. but the work of the cris committee is now complete with today's debate and vote. i would like to thank in particular mr pervenche berès. you are a true visionary in the true sense of the word, and always equally stimulating to work with; a master of compromise. i would also like to thank my colleague, mr wolf klinz, for his excellent work and the way he has led the committee. we need more europe, as we have heard, not less. nationalism must not be allowed to re-establish itself in europe. that is why it was good to hear from prime minister tusk. we must defend free trade, globalisation and cross-border mobility. we must have a clearer and stronger europe. the report is visionary and forward-looking, and we know that the world is changing at an enormous speed today. what was taboo just a few years ago is now on everyone's lips. look at the proposals in economic governance, which the commissioner mentions. i have one important objection, however. the committee also calls for the eu budget to be increased to between 2.5 and 10% of the member states' combined gnp. this is, if i may say so, unrealistic. visionary, perhaps, but not realistic. referring to a 1977 report doesn't make it any better. the europe we have today is very different. citizens want a functioning union that solves common crossborder problems. while the eu may need more funds in the future for common commitments, such change must take place in dialogue and in concert with citizens. let us not, therefore, risk the overall impression of the report today. visions are good and necessary, but they must be well-grounded. the european project needs democratic legitimacy today more than ever.
i would point out that in the swedish version, paragraph 7, seventh indent, paragraph 8 and paragraph 21 contain a number of translation errors which make the swedish version not conform to the others politically and in terms of content. i vote for the english version and hope that the translation into swedish will be correct when this reaches the public.
madam president, i would like to thank you. finally, we will have common, simple eu rules on food labelling. they have been hammered through and will come into force in 2014. i'm glad the line i've been pushing from the beginning worked. we want to have accurate, clear and understandable information on the packages, but no more mandatory information. we're going to empower consumers to make informed choices about what healthy food they want on their plates, and not use chopsticks and dictate what people eat. i am particularly pleased that the origin marking of all meat was adopted, as i proposed at the outset. the commission shall ensure that it is implemented in a reasonable manner. allergens should be specifically marked in the list of ingredients! we're gonna have rules for readability with clear minimum fonts and contrast. the rules on imitations are also very good, we will take strong measures to ban all misleading information. i regret, however, that trans fats are not clearly labelled. i believe that this balanced and good compromise gives consumers more freedom of choice without creating more unnecessary red tape for small businesses.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the fact that the commission and the european parliament have taken strong measures to promote female entrepreneurs. as a female entrepreneur, i've been very involved with a number of women in leadership positions in business. but i regret to say that i voted against this report because i do not believe in a solution at european level. we should not legislate on quotas, we should not ask the commission to take coercive measures to deal with wage differentials or to introduce quotas for women in companies. the european parliament and the commission have an important role to play in stimulating debate, shaping public opinion and putting pressure on business, but they should not be in charge. we can do better at the national level, at home. i also think that voluntary measures can be more effective in sweden, but the situation is different in other countries in europe when it comes to putting pressure on business owners to have more women on the boards.
in writing. - paragraph 14 of this resolution speaks positively of the establishment of a public european credit rating agency. we see this as an opportunity to put pressure on the large private institutions. at the same time, we see problems of principle. it would therefore be useful to have a better picture of both the advantages and disadvantages of a publicly owned establishment by means of a thorough investigation. a better knowledge base is a prerequisite for further constructive discussions on this issue. paragraph 45 welcomes the establishment of a european border guard system. we voted against this because we believe that border controls should remain a national competence. the commission also welcomes the new framework for frontex, which will strengthen its operational capacity at the eu's external borders. we do not believe that frontex should be strengthened without adequate guarantees that the organisation respects human rights in all its operations. despite these objections, we chose to vote in favour of the resolution as a whole.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we must not allow nationalism to gain a foothold in europe again. we must defend free trade, globalisation and cross-border mobility. the eu needs less power in some areas, but more muscle in others. the report is visionary and forward-looking. the committee also wants to see the eu budget increased to between 2.5 and 10% of the member states' gnp. this extreme increase is far from realistic today. we are against an extreme increase in the eu budget. it is possible that the eu may need more funds in the future for common commitments. but change must come about through dialogue and in concert with the citizens. it is therefore important to use existing resources more wisely at the present time. visions are good and necessary, but they must be firmly rooted. the european project needs democratic legitimacy today more than ever. then our proposals must be credible and feasible not just visionary.
in writing. - we need more europe, not less. we must not allow nationalism to gain a foothold in europe again. we must defend free trade, globalisation and cross-border mobility. we must have a clearer and stronger europe. the berès report is visionary and forward-looking. the committee also wants to see the eu budget increased to between 2.5 and 10% of the member states' gnp. this extreme increase is far from realistic today. we are against an extreme increase in the eu budget. the eu may need more funds in the future for common commitments, but change must come about in dialogue and in concert with citizens. visions are good and necessary, but they must be firmly rooted. the european project needs democratic legitimacy today more than ever. then our proposals must be credible and feasible not just visionary.
madam president, i would like to thank you. on a day like today, when we are debating the situation in north africa and in syria, we must admit that we have put stability before democracy and have been satisfied with the stability of the countries in this region. we've been out late, and now we've learned a lesson. we know in our hearts that there can be no stability unless it is rooted in democracy. i think we should admit that we've learned a lesson. when we talk about syria, we should be careful not to actually think about whether it would be even worse if assad were thrown aside. the truth must be that assad no longer has any legitimacy, however much we may fear chaos for a period. i mean, people are looking for democracy. people seek their own privacy. although we did not expect this to happen in north africa in the countries we have discussed today, we know in our hearts that sooner or later man will reach this situation, where he can feel free and respected and esteemed. i would also like to stress what many have said: let us involve turkey more in these discussions. turkey has historically been a very important country. turkey is a great power, economically and in foreign policy, which is growing, and therefore we should count on turkey and not pretend that it is on the sidelines.
the committee on development and cooperation has been asked to submit an opinion. - madam president! - what is it? when we talk about democracy, it is not only a humanitarian responsibility, but it is actually our duty under the eu treaty to work for democratization. it is perhaps sometimes presented as if we were engaged in some kind of cultural imperialism, to use a strong word, when we are striving for democratization. of course not, but every individual, regardless of religion, culture and tradition, has an inviolable responsibility. i would like to see us, to use a word used by cathrine ashton, become a little bolder in this area and work a little more intensively for democratization. it is not a question of democracy as a synonym for freedom alone, but of respect for the inviolable dignity and worth of the individual.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mrs ashton! i represent sweden today, but i'm actually a refugee from bosnia. i have experienced the war in bosnia and what several colleagues have said. i've been sitting there waiting for someone - the eu, the un, america, nato - to intervene, to bomb, to do something in the war, but nobody did anything. the frustration i experienced resulted in my political involvement. what i see in nagorno-karabakh today is a déjà vu. it was exactly the same scenario: you occupied the territory, you did ethnic cleansing, you moved refugees so that you had a majority of your own ethnicity. then they demand independence and a referendum. i sat there waiting for someone to do something, but no one did. i will not sit back and wait today but will demand that the armenian occupation must end before refugees can return. only when the refugees return and we have a balance can we start talking about the final status of nagorno-karabakh. we're gonna have to start talking about this at some point. you can't hold a referendum after you've moved people. first the refugees must return, and then we must start discussing nagorno-karabakh, otherwise we will have the republika srpska again and we do not want that. the speaker accepted to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8))
mr president, i would like to thank you. stoyanov should know that kosovo is internationally accepted as an exceptional example. it has been said that this applies only to kosovo and nothing else. i think the eu should be consistent in its approach to similar cases when we talk about south ossetia and transnistria. we are talking about the territorial integrity of georgia. we are talking about the territorial integrity of moldova. why can't the eu be consistent and also protect the territorial integrity of azerbaijan?
mr president, i would like to thank you. schengen is a great success for european cooperation. the natural reaction of the council and the commission should therefore be to further improve the free movement system. an example of this could be the evaluation system currently being discussed in the libe committee, which could make it easier to assess whether member states are committing breaches of the rules. the commission's communication on migration of 4 may contained a number of bad proposals. one of the issues discussed was to change the rules on temporary border controls. there are already opportunities to do so today in special circumstances. proposing further changes is just a flirtation with far-right forces. the restrictive flow of migrants into europe following the events in north africa can never be an excuse for restricting free movement within the eu. instead of discussing restrictions on free movement, we should focus on the real problems. how can the eu create a policy of solidarity on asylum and migration?
mr fox, i think that i am accountable to those who actually voted for me. what is the difference with those who vote for the 25 members? are they not accountable because they have actually been voted for? is that so strange? could you try to explain this to me? who are you accountable to?
madam president, i would like to thank you. two proposals in the report by andrew duff i think we should take up immediately. it's the shifting of election day to a time of year when the political temperature is higher. such a small change could actually help to increase voter turnout in some member states. it's also very important that we do something about the parental insurance issue. the man is the norm even in this parliament, and that cannot be allowed to happen. i would also like to say that i agree with many of the points made by commissioner damanakis. i would, however, describe it in a slightly clearer way. there is too much helicopter perspective in this proposal and too little long-term pragmatism. together with our european and national parties, we must show what the eu actually decides that affects the lives of eu citizens in a positive way, especially in areas where national power is not enough. how could one nation, one member state, regulate the financial market on its own? how could a single member state do something about climate policy? we must be better at longterm pragmatism and not come up with wild proposals like those put forward by andrew duff. realism is important.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? i like your proposal, andrew duff. i think this is a stimulating report, a forward-looking and visionary report. but one that may soon be a reality. the creation of a transnational list would underline the european aspect of the election. it would give a much-needed boost to the often tired national electoral campaigns. it is my view that this would strengthen democracy. i fully share the view expressed by the member who has now departed. i would gladly vote for václav havel. i can't believe you guys from smaller countries have such low self-esteem. poul nyrup rasmussen, he is the leader of the european social democrats. he's from the little country of denmark. pat cox came from the small country of ireland. he was the leader of this parliament. he didn't even have a party behind him. a little more confidence, my friends. the european electorate is a wise, conscious people and i think they can distinguish between national elections and european elections and they would see it as an opportunity to go and vote twice and also to elect their european politicians. voters will also be able to ensure that politicians do their job - they don't have to be re-elected next time. good, necessary and visionary. i would like to say to marita ulvskog that you can be realistic, but sometimes you also need to be bold and dare to think outside the box. i'm afraid i thought you sounded rather conservative, marita. thank you, andrew.
in writing. - the fact that millions of people in europe are living in poverty or are at risk of poverty is a matter of shame and a challenge for us all. although the responsibility for the social safety net lies primarily with the individual member states, coordinated action and common eu funds can help to combat poverty. however, we do not believe that european food programmes, whatever the legal basis on which they are based, are the right way to go. rather, poverty in europe is being tackled by making a real effort to improve education, employment and growth. to mark this, we have decided to abstain from voting on the final vote on this resolution.
in the light of the recent developments in the food sector, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the regulation to include the following areas: the resolution deals with the gradual reduction of aid to the newly established budgetary level, which is not something i am opposed to. the background to my vote against the resolution as a whole is instead the problematic paragraphs 7 and 10. paragraph 7 misrepresents the right to food, which is serious because it risks undermining the legal value of human rights, which in the long run could have far-reaching negative consequences for people around the world. paragraph 10 emphasises the need to guarantee european farmers a certain level of income. the guarantee of a minimum wage for selfemployed workers - which is what farmers are - in any sector is neither reasonable nor politically desirable.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner de gucht, i would like to take this opportunity to wish you good luck in geneva and with the negotiations that now remain. you reaffirm europe's commitment to multilateral trade negotiations, the world trade organisation and the doha round. because even though we may have an ambitious programme for bilateral free trade negotiations, we all know that only multilateral, global agreements can deliver the growth and free trade that we know we need. it is a little tiresome to have these debates about the doha round over and over again. i have been here in the european parliament for seven years, and the debate and discussion on the doha round has been a constant recurrent one. new hopes, new disappointments - it would be easy to give up, but the doha round is too important to leave behind. the doha round was launched shortly after the terrible terrorist attacks of 11 september 10 years ago. i have to say that it's one of the few really good answers to the horrors that happened back then, an answer that is about global cooperation and prosperity for the world's poor. it's no less important now than it was then. on the one hand, it can be argued that the doha round is more important than ever now, when the debt crisis is affecting both europe and the united states. we can expect lower growth, perhaps even recession, in large parts of the world. we know that it will hit europe. the world's poor, however, will be hit hardest. so making sure that we do something to give the global economy a big injection is more important than ever. on the other hand, the doha round is a little outdated. it is about customs, it is about agriculture, agriculture, agriculture and a little bit of industrial goods. but we all know that today's economy is characterized by services, by the digital economy, and not by peripheral barriers to trade. that's why it's important to come to a conclusion. it is important for confidence in the global trading system, in the wto and in a global regulatory framework, but it is also important for us to be able to meet the challenges of the future - new trade rules for a new economy, a digital economy and an economy based on services. everybody wins with a deal. it would be the single most important and best injection of new growth in the world. but it takes leadership, it takes courageous political leadership. we in the european parliament expect nothing less from the commission and commissioner de gucht than to dare to show that leadership in the negotiations. we need more free trade in the world, not less, in times of crisis.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to agree fully with colleagues judith merkies, bernd lange and rapporteur reinhard bütikofer. they have already said that resource efficiency, recycling, urban mining are extremely important investments in jobs, growth and in the protection and care of our environment, but with innovation, with a modern mindset, with a modern approach as a tool. at the same time, i would like to highlight a very different perspective which is crucial for the voters whom i represent in this parliament. the first thing i did when parliament started to work on the raw materials question was to go to one of europe's raw materials centres, northern sweden, norrbotten. there i met the real experts who know what raw materials mean for growth, for jobs and for industrial development. i spoke to scientists, to business representatives, to the trade unions. they described how this age-old sector is now flourishing again, how to open new mines, how to revive old mines, how to prospect, how to develop the technology and how to improve the quality. this is due to the fact that global demand is increasing again. globalisation has simply returned to europe. the demand comes from the world outside europe, while we must be able to supply our own industry. this is very exciting. i think i can tell commissioner tajani that you don't have to go to greenland. we have the whole of northern europe, where there is a wealth of skilled technology, research, high-quality raw materials and a working environment which is also very good for those who work in this part of the industry. i think we can do a lot more of this without having to look any further up in the first place. i also see the commodities strategy as an eu recognition of the crucial role played by northern europe in industrial development and prosperity. it's important, you know. however, one of the main lessons of my visit to northern sweden was the importance of functioning infrastructure, both for resource-rich regions and for industrial centres. it is essential for efficient and value-added growth. the report calls for the new guidelines for the eu's ten-t infrastructure programme to take account of the need to link raw materials to industrial centres. the commission must listen to this and come forward with concrete proposals. another important issue is, of course, the development perspective, which has already been mentioned by several other speakers. a key point is that extraction of raw materials and trade with non-eu countries must of course be based on equal partnerships. we will not contribute to a development that means we are backing the tape back to the neo-colonial time, to the old colonial time. we're not going to end up there. we don't need to, there's enormous wealth, and there's a lot of good partnerships to reach.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, europe is facing one of its most testing times yet. as we europeans find ourselves in an increasingly globalised world, we face the dual challenge of securing european prosperity and fighting climate change. over the coming decades we need to restructure the european economy in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for the whole continent. these are challenges acknowledged in the eu's jobs and growth strategy, the 2020 strategy, and they should also be at the forefront of a successful raw materials strategy. the challenges should not be underestimated. according to some estimates, investment needs for transport, energy, ict and other sectors will amount to eur 4 000 billion up to 2050. to achieve this, a secure supply of raw materials is the key to a future where europe leads the world in green technology. as economies go greener they also increasingly compete for the same key raw materials, many of which we must import from competing world powers. the raw materials strategy needs to be connected – or more connected – to other important european policies, for example on industry, research, trade, transport and sustainable economic growth. especially at this time of crisis, we need real growth- orientated reforms based on encouraging free trade. tying a raw materials strategy based on free trade closer to other eu policies will enhance access to raw materials for european companies as well. apart from being green and trade-oriented, the eu raw materials strategy must also ensure that both developed and developing countries can benefit from the sustainable supply of materials. it is crucial that the capacity of developing countries is strengthened using the ‘aid for trade’ mechanism. special attention must be paid to fragile states and post-conflict situations in order to ensure that raw materials are not used to escalate or finance conflict. europe needs actions aimed at innovation and eliminating trade barriers in third countries, not a policy of stockpiling rare and critical raw materials while undermining democracy abroad. europe should also take advantage of the materials that we have here. contrary to frequent assertions, europe is still rich in natural resources and, with its minerals, metals and forests, northern europe in particular has the potential to meet many of the eu’s raw material needs in a sustainable way, provided there is transport. if sound and strategic management of our own resources can be coupled with real reform of the internal market, we will be well on our way to being a competitive player in tomorrow’s global green economy. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i want to thank sophia in 't veld for a good job. i am very sorry for the problems that have arisen along the way. it's a shame, you know? this question is of great importance not only in view of the 10th anniversary of 9/11, but also in view of the terrorist attack on utøya in norway this summer. although member states have different experiences of terrorism and the threat landscape is different, we must work together to ensure that terrorists do not exploit the differences in eu legislation, counter-terrorism capacity and the abolition of border controls. the aim of the counter-terrorism strategy should be to combat the objectives of terrorism which seek to disrupt our free, open and democratic societies. the safest way to combat terrorism is to focus on preventing violent extremism and escalation of violence. that is why i am pleased about the network presented by commissioner malmström the other day. i want the commission to make a proper assessment of the objectives set as the counter-terrorism strategy ... (the president cut off the speaker)
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. during this part-session, parliament will vote on a renewed and strengthened mandate for frontex. i am proud and very happy to have been part of the team that has been led in an excellent way by my colleague simon busuttil. i want to thank you for a very good cooperation. as you know, frontex is not an old agency, but has only been operational for six years. and with what is new, there is reason to review the activities in order to further improve them for the future. the report we have here shows how we can further improve the quality of frontex's work. i welcome the fact that the mandate of the agency is now clearer and i see the positive side in the fact that member states will now contribute both staff and equipment to give frontex the conditions it needs to do a really good job. it is very positive that we have succeeded in ensuring respect for human rights in frontex's work. this means, among other things, that operations suspected of human rights abuses can now be suspended or terminated. we are also setting up a body within the authorities to monitor human rights in particular. i am very pleased to say that it is entirely to parliament's credit that this has happened. i'm proud of that. i also welcome the fact that parliament, in a declaration, is making a very important political decision by choosing to speak of irregular migrants instead of illegal migrants. no human is ever illegal. i look forward to the day when this concept is also changed in our treaties. it will take time, but you must always dare to believe that that day will come. in an eu where we have abolished internal borders, it is important that external borders are respected and controlled in a proper and functioning way. this report helps to ensure that we will see such a development, and we can have a well-functioning border guard without building a 'fortress europe' for it. once again, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and all the others as well. my group will support the report as a whole.
madam president, the strengthening of frontex is very welcome in ensuring human treatment for the migrants coming to our external borders and, at the same time, in helping us fight irregular migration. i welcome in particular the improvements on fundamental rights, especially for unaccompanied minors, and better protection of data. on joint european border guard teams, it is very clear that we are not creating a european police force. subsidiarity stands and, madam commissioner, i can never underline enough how important it will be to have a very clear command and control structure. on the special focus on member states under special and disproportionate pressure, it is very important to clarify what this means if we really want to employ european solidarity. i hope, madam commissioner, that you will, in the implementing rules, give a clear definition that will help us avoid confrontation and conflicts. co-financing is to be preferred to financing for joint operations as it remains the primary responsibility of member states to deal with external borders. finally, i would like to say that frontex has an important, supportive, operational and technical role to play, but it is a step towards the common asylum policy which we need to continue to work for in 2012.
madam president, i would like to thank you. frontex is a decision, a force and a phenomenon that worries a lot of people for a lot of different reasons. firstly, in terms of solidarity with people outside europe who want to seek a better future. secondly, respect for human rights, the red cross conventions and the refugee convention. in particular, there is confusion about the classical definition of refugee. when we discuss frontex, i think we all have a great responsibility to preserve both the content of the refugee convention and the definition of refugee and refugee rights. the third area of concern is, of course, openness and transparency and respect for privacy issues. finally, i would like to stress the importance of initiating discussions with the north african transitional states in order to agree with them how to deal with these issues in the new situation created by the democratic movements in north africa.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the report has no legislative effect but aims to clarify the european parliament's position on what should be the lessons of the financial crisis with regard to the audit industry. the report contains several texts which are problematic from our point of view, because they concern what should not be political positions but are the individual affairs of private companies, such as how the selection of the auditor is carried out, the extent of the audit mission or the structure of an audit office, to name a few examples. in the light of the overall assessment, we did not consider it justified to vote against the report as a whole, but we would like to make our position clear by this explanation of vote.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the report has no legislative effect but aims to clarify the european parliament's position on what should be the lessons of the financial crisis with regard to the audit industry. the report contains several texts which are problematic from our point of view, because they concern what should not be political positions but are the individual affairs of private companies, such as how the selection of the auditor is carried out, the extent of the audit mission or the structure of an audit office, to name a few examples. in the light of the overall assessment, we did not consider it justified to vote against the report as a whole, but we would like to make our position clear by this explanation of vote.
in writing. - at the european parliament's session in strasbourg on 14 september, we voted moderately in favour of an own-initiative report on an effective raw materials strategy for europe. the report has no legislative effect but aims to clarify the european parliament's position on access to strategic raw materials. the report includes a number of articles on the introduction of a tax on water and land use. we moderates are against the introduction of such a tax and believe that tax legislation is a national competence and that decisions on it should not be taken at eu level.
in writing. - at the european parliament's meeting in strasbourg on 14 september, we voted moderately in favour of an own-initiative report on an effective raw materials strategy for europe. the report has no legislative effect but aims to clarify the european parliament's position on access to strategic raw materials. the report includes a number of articles on the introduction of a tax on water and land use. we moderates are against the introduction of such a tax and believe that tax legislation is a national competence and should not be decided at eu level.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a functioning price mechanism determines whether we can have a functioning energy market. a functioning energy market is the cornerstone of smart climate policy. ownership structure is a major contributor to prices, but the lack of transparency also explains this. as a result of the lack of competition, the revenues of the electricity companies from grid charges have increased very sharply. as usual, there are politicians proposing various kinds of planned economic experiments to solve these problems. i want to make one thing very clear, however: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. the future is a more transparent market, where the collective power of europe gives all consumers the opportunity to set the agenda. however, the energy production facing the consumers of the future will look different. the grid therefore needs to be rebuilt to cope with, for example, the circular supply of electricity. to avoid electricity price shocks, the share of smart meters must also increase. the consumer can then see the price and the amount of electricity consumed. it will be possible to choose both green electricity and the time of day when it is cheapest to put the washing machine on. this also leads to a more even demand curve and a more even price level. to meet all these needs, investment is required. in the long term, competitiveness requires an increase in europe's investment rate, which is only one third of china's, at 19%. to help raise the level of employment, we need to improve the interaction between the private and public sectors. with the help of, among other things, the legislation we are voting on tomorrow, policy can contribute to an incentive structure that makes investments in smart energy infrastructure more profitable. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr jorgo chatzimarkakis, who has again done a fantastic job with a difficult report. it will increase transparency in the energy market. general and long-term rules of the game that contribute to a better and functioning market are necessary to achieve both economic growth and climate objectives. there's a lot of money to be made, but if there's anything worth investing in, it's the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? here in the european parliament we often discuss energy poverty. we're talking about energy supply and energy conversion. but as long as manipulation and opacity are allowed to prevail, it's very difficult to get anywhere. in that sense, a weakly regulated energy market is as bad as a weakly regulated financial market. we've seen what can happen. now acer has a stronger position. we must of course also fight for more resources to use this position. we get a register, and we get sanctions that are good for the electricity consumers. i would have liked to have seen a lot more regulation, though. i am not a big believer in the free market, which is very clear in the energy sector. i am, however, very grateful for the work done by the rapporteur and by all the others. this is the first step in the right direction.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would say that today's debate is perhaps one of the most important of this part-session. the questions are hardly new. how can we better meet citizens' demands for well-balanced legislation, based on sound studies and impact assessments, so that we solve their real problems? this must of course be done through a legislative process which is open and transparent. the challenges are many, and we are far from the goal. instead of opening up our institutions and increasing access to documents for our citizens, the commission and large parts of the council now seem to want to restrict access to what are precisely public documents. this is amazing! we must never forget who our employers are! it is the citizens of our member states. what right do bureaucrats and politicians have to keep secret what we should reasonably consider to be the actions of citizens themselves? we are not the owners of these documents, but the citizens. i am also astonished at the strong resistance of representatives of the council of ministers to the introduction of correlation tables. now that we spend long, long hours agreeing on directives, it is perhaps not so surprising that we want to see a simple way of seeing how citizens implement these rules in their member states. there is much to be done in the area of better regulation. sometimes it seems that we are experts in talking about the principles of simplification of rules, only to make it more difficult for our citizens. independent evidence, impact assessments and increased opportunities for members to commission research from, for example, the library could be important contributions to this process. i would like to recall the excellent report by angelika niebler on impact assessments in particular before i conclude by thanking her and her colleagues eva lichtenberger, sajjad karim and judith sargentini for their equally excellent work.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to hear the commission come up with new rules on transparency. it's really necessary. it is the best protection against corruption and all abuses of power. we can never use the seal of secrecy to seal uncomfortable audit reports or to redefine documents to avoid transparency or, as in the case of the acta agreement, to seal them for fear of public debate. one thing i really want to get out in the open is that all the documents are actually being recorded. good examples are first-review agreements which are concluded behind closed doors, and where we hardly have any rules on transparency and openness. another example is the lobbyists' incoming documents. they should be obliged to always send a copy to a public register, so that citizens can see who is affecting which legislation. the seal of secrecy can never be used to protect inhuman or stupid decisions. it undermines the citizens' confidence in democracy. it should be used in well-balanced, specific cases but never as such an instrument.
mr president, we need visions for the future but we need solutions for today. more calls for more europe do not solve the real problems we are facing today. these real problems – deficits and the lack of growth – are obstacles for the future. we need more decisions in the europe we have today in order to make real changes. we must emphasise that member states are responsible, but we must never forget our own responsibility. the commission, the council and parliament must use all of their powers. i think one of the most important things is to use the opportunity we have. the european union is the biggest economy in the world, but we are not making use of that because we are not the biggest market. that is why i call on the commission to put forward proposals to make the european union a totally internal market that can compete with the us and china and that can allow for the growth that we will need in order to deal with a debt crisis. we need a stability pact, which will be put in place, but we need growth and the commission has a responsibility to provide a proposal for us to act immediately.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank you for this opportunity to address a few words from this parliament to the norwegian people, the people whom we in sweden call our brother people for both historical and contemporary reasons. what happened was a horrific event that showed that sometimes evil knows no bounds. it affected so many young people. even though we have not met them, we know them in the conviction, the idealism, the suffering, the hope of knowing right from wrong, and of being able to make the world better - things that we ourselves should also be responsible for as much as possible. the norwegian poet henrik ibsen once expressed it in the following words when denmark was attacked during the schleswig-holstein conflict: a brother in need! every man on deck. in sweden, for a time in our history, we had reason to say that finland's cause is ours. what happened in norway, in oslo on utøya, makes norway's cause our common cause. our sympathy, our compassion and our solidarity can never be compared to the grief and pain that so many people in norway feel today, but we can say one thing, namely that we share your grief and we share your pain. your cause is ours, too. the norwegian poet and war correspondent nordahl grieg has been quoted at countless funerals in norway this summer, where young men and women have passed on in peace. in his poem to the youth, nordahl grieg wrote: fight for your lives. peace to you. throw in your powers, death will strike! there is no better way to express our sympathy with the norwegian people and the admirable strength that is claimed when you want to protect the open society, where you say you should meet hate with love and unity. this should also be our concern, and it can also lead to us being able to say to all those out there, lone terrorists or those who organize themselves: we defend our open society, we make it more open. it is not empty words, but it is action-oriented realism. it's to say to them, you lost and we won. it's to say to them, we will win and you will lose, because our values are stronger than your hatred. this is how we honour those who lost their lives on utøya in oslo, norway our fellow citizens and our europe. (applause from the left)
mr president, i supported the report that calls for enhanced access to documents because enhanced transparency is crucial to enable citizen participation in, and democratic scrutiny of, the european decision-making process. i am glad that there was a broad consensus in the european parliament that much more needs to be done to increase transparency in the legislative process while ensuring data protection. with the stockholm programme we committed ourselves to creating a real area of freedom and rights for our citizens. transparency and accountability represent a good step in that direction. now we should really move forward speedily with a new regulation. it is about time we got to work on it. the new legislation should be simple, user-friendly and easy to understand for all citizens. it is important to focus on public access to information and not just on sharing information between european institutions. we should not ‘protect’ citizens from too much information or confusing information. they should choose when, if and what they want to know.
in writing. - we have chosen to support the activation of the eu globalisation fund once again - this time to help people who have lost their jobs in austria and the netherlands - because europe is still suffering from the economic crisis and special times call for special measures. however, we believe that in future we should rather use existing instruments - in particular the european social fund - to increase the employability of those who have been notified or dismissed. there should be no need for a globalisation fund in the next budgetary period and it should be made clear that social policy is primarily the responsibility of the member states.
madam president, i would like to thank you. may the intentions and hopes expressed in this resolution really come true, so that we see concrete action in libya and by the european parliament on the basis of what is said in the resolution. it might also be appropriate to recall that the united states did not play the first violin in this action - which i think we will find in the future - but the eu did. it is perhaps also appropriate to recall that, as many have already pointed out here, the eu was not unanimous from the start. but let us now show complete unity in our efforts to help build democracy in libya. we have learned the lesson that there is no stability without democracy. that is why it is so urgent that the constitution, as has been said here, should also stress the importance of democratic institutions. of course, we can talk about the risks of the new libya, but what choice did we have? we all agreed that gaddafi must go, and now we can feel satisfied that he has gone. i also think it is important to express a strong desire that relations with the eu countries should not be based primarily on oil contracts but on the elevation of libya to the democratic sphere. i am very much attracted by the expression used here by mikołaj dowgielewicz when he spoke of freedom without fear. that is democracy, and that is what we want for the libyan people.
mr president, i would like to thank you. if the question is asked whether we want the palestinians to have their own state, the answer is yes from all sides. even prime minister netanyahu is talking about a two-state solution. if the question is whether we want to reach a compromise, then the answer is also yes, because we know that both sides must have participated in a compromise or at least given their consent in some way. do we think we can get out of the situation if the world community unilaterally decides on a palestinian state and israel is completely out of the picture? politics must be the art of the possible, after all. i do not think that we can imagine, in our hearts, that a decision can be taken without israel being involved in the negotiations. that is what was said in the oslo agreement, and that is what was said by the quartet, namely that both sides must be involved and that it is a matter of negotiations. we who are adamantly in favour of negotiations are no less interested in the peace process moving forward. we believe that the negotiations are a prerequisite for the peace process to move forward. secondly, i think we are making things a little too easy on ourselves by talking about the 1967 borders all the time, as if they could just be there as something fixed and finished. more complicated than that, i'm sure, is the question of demarcation. that's why we need to negotiate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think that none of us in this chamber can grasp or grasp this terrible famine of which we speak. we also know that children and women are the hardest hit. there are those, if i understand the matter correctly, who are all too inclined to blame the famine on the global market, where trade and speculation in food are undeniably taking place. the unpredictability of the market and the rising food prices are said to be the cause of the famine. those who argue that way are, in my view, wrong. the relentless sunshine and lack of rain that have led to the worst drought in 60 years is perhaps a bigger problem for many of the poorest, who are also largely self-sufficient and grow their own food. but the single greatest cause of the famine, and above all of its scale, i dare say, is another, which has also been mentioned here. the country most affected is somalia, as you know. there the islamist organisation al-shabab has put its claws in the country and has in the most despicable ways, through terror and violence, prevented somalia from developing into a functioning country. al-shabab and the neglect of the somali state are the single biggest cause of the mass starvation that is now occurring. of course, it is right that the eu is now providing a broad front of aid and food to those in need, but stopping the horrendous advance of al-shabab would be the most effective way for the eu and the west.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the itre committee for bringing this to the agenda and raising the questions. with regard to the first question, the two most relevant items where a common eu voice is critical are coordination of the digital dividend in the 800 megahertz band and the spectrum regulation regarding short-range devices, which risks affecting the circulation of radio frequency identification tags in the internal market. both are areas where there is already legislation in place at eu level. taking note of the developing consensus in the eu on the substance and given that the preparatory process for the wrc-12 is all but concluded, the commission would not consider it necessary at this stage to go beyond a practical arrangement for ad-hoc coordination, as is proposed in the communication. in this context, the commission recalls that member states have a duty to fully cooperate to achieve eu goals and to avoid any result that could affect the eu’s internal rules or alter their scope. the commission will carefully monitor the process and will not hesitate to take all appropriate steps if member states do not comply with their duties under the treaty. the commission is considering moving beyond the aforementioned ad-hoc approach to coordination, including if necessary a proposal for a council decision in the lead-up to the next conference. this may also include a re-examination of the status and the role of the european union in the itu. with regard to the agenda for the next conference in 2015, we have outlined our strategy in the communication on the wrc-12. in a nutshell, concerning the future spectrum for wireless and broadband, the commission considers that it is not appropriate to specify already precise frequency bands and favours a holistic approach to identify issues and opportunities. we propose to undertake a common eu reflection in the context of the spectrum inventory, which is an efficiency review that is an essential part of the proposed radio spectrum policy programme and supported in parliament’s first reading report. we believe that there is sufficient convergence between the views of member states and that it is not necessary to formalise the eu position for this particular point.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for her response to the oral question. i would like to highlight two things that i think are important when we discuss this area. when we talk about spectrum, telecommunications, mobile wireless, devices of different kinds and also technologies, we are talking about one of the fastest-moving areas in the global community today. i say ‘global community’ because it is not only about the economy; it is also about politics and about information, science and all other sectors in society. it is fair to say that this is one of the fastest-moving areas and we need to be flexible, and this means also that the approach must be ambitious. having listened to the commissioner, i must say that i think the commission should try to apply an even more ambitious approach regarding the upcoming telecom conferences. when the technology is moving as fast as it is, the fact that this international telecommunications union is having meetings every fourth year, i think it is – which is a heritage from the 1920s and 1930s, in a totally different world – means that it is important to secure the flexibility we need and also to mention the important frequencies we need to open up. politicians always say phrases like ‘tomorrow starts today’, but in this area this is very true, because the telecom conference 2015 is being prepared now, and we need to have an ambitious approach in place in order to get as much as possible out of this conference. our aim must be to enable europe to be in the lead in global development in mobile wireless and telecoms, because that is essential for our future growth. when we discuss the debt crisis, this is a challenge for us to deal with those issues and an even more ambitious approach to flexibility, but also to aim for european leadership in the global community. that should be the commission's approach.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in these times of crisis we need to use all the tools we have to support growth and make europe competitive. in this context, ict and the spectrum issue are extremely important. take the digital agenda, for example. we need to build a digital internal market and we need to develop the kind of ict solutions that would underpin the europe that should emerge from this crisis. i am thinking of e-health, e-democracy, smart and efficient transport, smart metering for energy and smart grids. much of this will be difficult, some of it impossible, to achieve if we do not secure the regulatory framework and international agreements necessary, like the itu’s radio regulations. secondly, the commission has a job to do here to ensure that a european approach is well represented at the itu conference. for the first time, the commission now has a chance to speak for the union interest in these international negotiations. we do need the commission to represent our eu framework. take the radio spectrum policy that we voted on in this parliament in may as an example. that is part of the foundation for the digital agenda and for europe 2020 – the competitive europe with the new jobs that we so badly need – and we will continue to establish eu rules in this area in the years to come. we absolutely have to find a way forward for consistency between our eu legislation and the international regulatory framework. i urge the commission to establish and pursue a clear, consistent strategy, and to make sure that there is a strong eu dimension in the upcoming negotiations. i also expect the commission to strongly defend the principles of transparency and personal integrity, as laid out in the telecoms package.
in the european parliament's resolution of 15 september, parliament voted in favour of the resolution on the fight against corruption. we support the commission communication on the fight against corruption and the decision to establish a european reporting system. the resolution also calls on the member states to better implement the relevant anti-corruption provisions, while stressing the need for member states to cooperate better with europol, eurojust and olaf in investigating and prosecuting corruption offences. however, we do not agree that the commission should take further action at eu level to harmonise the provisions on whistleblower protection. we also disagree with the european parliament's call on all eu institutions to increase transparency and monitoring of financing activities. such measures should be decided at national level, not at eu level.
the proposer. - mr president! - what is it? commissioner, you were one of the first to call for the release of dawit isaak. glory to this. our despair is shared. for ten years dawit isaak has been imprisoned in eritrea under appalling conditions and without trial, because he stood up for democracy and freedom of expression. he is the only eu citizen imprisoned for his opinions, a prisoner of conscience. we all have a responsibility in this house to act - a humanistic responsibility, a moral responsibility. it is important that we adopt this resolution today. our message is crystal clear to the dictator of eritrea: we will not forget, we will not be silent! the eu must now also act more concertedly to put pressure on the asmara regime to release isaak and his fellow prisoners. a delegation must be sent immediately to eritrea to demand a meeting with dawit isaak to ascertain his state of health, both physical and mental. we don't even know if he's alive. the silent diplomacy, commissioner, has failed. it's just been quiet, and dawit isaac's time is running out. our appeal today must be: free dawit isaak. he is a free man.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think it is a very welcome proposal that we now grant duty-free access to agricultural and fishery products from the palestinian territories. on the one hand, it may seem to be a very limited proposal. after all, it is the smallest trading area with which the eu has any kind of agreement in this way. but on the other hand, it is very symbolic, as some of the debate here today shows. perhaps not least at the moment when we see the palestinian authority trying to get unilateral recognition at the un, although i myself doubt whether it can really bring peace and security to the region. but on the other hand, the decision we make tomorrow could make a difference. by opening up trade, economic development and prosperity, we also provide a future for those who lack it today, and that is the most important building block for building security and prosperity. but it requires israel's cooperation. a lot of palestinian exports today are controlled in practice by the israeli export authority, and cooperating for the prosperity of the palestinian territories is very important for israel's security. the european parliament should be firm that what we are doing for the palestinian side we should of course also do for the israelis. it's not that the israelis lose if the palestinians get better trade prospects or the palestinians lose if the israelis get better trade prospects. we should therefore of course get out of the stupid political deadlock we have with regard to akka and also approve an israeli agreement, because trade brings prosperity, development and future opportunities. it needs both palestinians and israelis.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank mr caspary for bringing up all the issues that are important to us - human rights, labour law, social responsibility, the environment, climate, consumer protection, not least the protection of generics, and the right to non-protectionist safeguards against unfair competition and dumping. but both the commission's communication and the report still focus on the untimely continuation of liberalisation. the demand for the abolition of export duties is reminiscent of a colonial commodity policy. what would we say if the swedish steel industry were not allowed to work with special steel but had to export all its raw materials? no, let those countries who want the added value remain in their country by means of export duties, which are often also an important source of income. and the same goes for the continued demand for procurement and liberalisation of services. these countries must decide for themselves whether they benefit from this or whether it is more important to favour certain local industries. this is a matter for each country to decide for itself. then i wonder how the policy - it's even called growth - can be compatible with our climate ambitions? show me an analysis, and show me that there has been some disconnect between global trade, growth, emissions and resource consumption. i would like to see these studies before you present the next untimely growth proposal. you need to have a more green economy that is not dependent on growth. not all trade is necessary. half of the world's trade is in equivalent products. we should trade where there is a lot of added value: buying things where we are bad, and exporting things where we are good.
madam president, we tabled 41 amendments in committee, so it is a false claim that the greens did not table any amendments and try to influence the outcome.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have a question for de gucht. i want to know how he intends to use relations between the countries, that is trade relations, to make sure that it also promotes security issues. we see that trade is sometimes used both for war and as a means of securing peace. we have seen this in parts of europe and even in eastern europe. do we have a plan for how we can use trade to promote democracy and secure peace in troubled conflict zones?
member of the commission. − i thought they were waving at me. i believe that trade can contribute to peace but of course more trade does not automatically result in a more peaceful environment. we believe, for example, that trade could play a very important role in the next stages of the arab spring, and we will consider next month negotiating directives for free trade agreements with the four countries concerned: morocco, tunisia, jordan, egypt, so we will continue in that way. you could say exactly the same about the african countries. for example, i firmly believe that the epas could contribute a great deal to regional integration in africa; regional integration is probably one of the important factors also for more peace and stability in africa.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i agree with the commissioner. this is exactly the answer i wanted to hear: you spoke of promotion and how trade can promote a security situation, but are you also planning to introduce some form of penalties to discourage trade with certain countries which pose a security risk to certain areas?
my question is for commissioner piebalgs and it concerns eritrea and dawit isaak. as of friday last week, this swedish/eritrean citizen has been imprisoned for ten years, ten years in these prison holes in eritrea. is it not time to act now, mr commissioner, to link development aid to the constant suppression of human rights in eritrea? last week in the un general assembly president isaias afewerki was there; i saw him on television. did anyone from the eu delegation try to contact mr afewerki, to have some contact and get some reactions? and what have you been doing in the last year, mr commissioner?
this is now 10 years and probably dawit isaak is dying in prison. i have a proposal: could you and i go together to asmara and try to get in contact with the leadership, with president afewerki? at least try to make it possible to visit the prisoners, dawit isaak and the other prisoners of conscience. he is the only prisoner of conscience from the european union. we have to do something, mr commissioner. i am willing to go, are you willing to go?
in writing. - europe is in a deep economic crisis, where every last straw counts. it is therefore particularly regrettable that the member states - especially the former eastern and central european countries - are at present, for administrative and economic reasons, unable to make full use of the resources available under european cohesion policy. this report lists a number of important measures, such as the need to simplify the regulatory framework and to increase the use of innovative financial instruments, to improve the situation. unfortunately, the report also contains an unfortunate and misplaced claim that the esf needs a 'substantial financial reinforcement', something we cannot support but unfortunately have not had the opportunity to vote on separately. we have therefore decided to vote in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. - road accidents kill and injure thousands of people in europe every year - each case is a tragedy. road safety is an important and transnational issue. however, we cannot legislate away the responsibility of people in traffic. it is neither reasonable nor effective for the european parliament to regulate in detail road safety issues, and to create rules which are impossible to control and follow up creates only an unclear legal situation. road safety is primarily the responsibility of the member states and a matter falling within the scope of the subsidiarity principle. we support the report as a whole to underline the importance we attach to road safety, but we also want to underline our view that future european legislative proposals in this area should not go as far as this own-initiative report.
madam president, the budgets committee of the european parliament is preparing a report on the new neighbourhood instrument as well as on the 2012 eu budget, and i have some questions. one, we must draw conclusions from what the eu did before the arab spring. we supported civil society, democratic institution-building, etc., but it is obvious that many saw eu aid mainly as support for the existing, far from democratic regimes. so my question is: what will the commission suggest in order to design the programmes, rules, conditionality criteria, etc., for the future, to avoid that? two, we must also draw conclusions from the fact that historically some member states, particularly the old colonial powers, gave priority to their national interests rather than those of the local citizens or the european union. how can we achieve better coordination for the future in order for the union to play a crucial and constructive role? three, the situation in palestine makes it absolutely necessary to increase substantially the commission and council proposals for funding 2012. will the commission come up with a revised proposal for that?
mr president, the summit meeting in warsaw must give strong support for, and reaffirm the priority of, the eastern partnership, which is an important means of influencing the development of those societies. all of these countries are balanced between two different options: either authoritarian structures, or the path towards democracy and open societies. that is going on just now. the opportunities we lose today will be extremely difficult to regain in the future. i think that it is important to state that this is about europe, and it is about democracy and the rule of law. ukraine is an example of that, with what is happening with yulia tymoshenko. they are undermining the rule of law and strong support for human rights and an open society. i think that it is of the utmost importance that the european union should use all its tools. we are the biggest economy of the world, with the opportunities provided by association agreements, scholarships, and visa liberalisation. at the same time, the strong message is that the preconditions must be fulfilled if you want closer cooperation. i think that the focus of the summit meeting must be to take the concrete actions which make both of these tracks credible and worthwhile.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is true that the countries of our eastern neighbourhood are at a crossroads between either development towards fully functioning democracies or stagnation. civil society, ngos and media freedom are of great importance, but we cannot start anything else until we have secured peace and stability. several colleagues have mentioned nagorno-karabakh before, and the tension we all felt in the spring has fortunately not exploded and developed into something worse. it also showed that when we work together, that is, when we members of parliament and catherine ashton and štefan füle work together, we can also control the situation. the fact that things are quieter at the moment does not mean that we can rest easy, but i would like to send two messages from here: firstly, mrs ashton should explain to us more often and more regularly what is being done in the frozen conflicts in particular, and secondly, we must treat all frozen conflicts in the area in the same way. this is not just about nagorno-karabakh. this also applies to south ossetia, abkhazia and transnistria. the eu must have a common approach to all frozen conflicts and treat them in the same way. what is accepted as a solution in one country must also be accepted by others, both in terms of terminology and in terms of documents.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i find it extremely sad to see that solidarity with cyprus and our brothers and sisters in cyprus is today put on the back burner. it is one of our member states which is being attacked by a foreign power, and the seriousness of this cannot be overstated. at the same time, our common security is threatened by the turkish aggression which is increasing day by day. we need to come together and speak with one voice. it is totally unacceptable that laws and regulations are not respected, and here each of us has a responsibility to stand up and defend our brothers and sisters in one of our member countries. i would expect it if sweden was attacked, but here we have allowed the conflict to go on indefinitely. it must end, and it must end immediately. i appeal to you, mrs. ashton: speak clearly and clearly. the turkish aggression and aggressiveness must stop, and it must stop now.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. industry is vital for jobs and development in europe. without a competitive industry, the service sector will not grow either. in this context, it is clear that the commission must be very strict, very observant and active when there is competition or risk of competition based on lower climate and environmental ambitions leading to carbon leakage. of course, we must also stand up for the principle of exempting sectors which are de facto exposed to carbon leakage, and apply that principle wisely. this should not be interpreted as allowing european industry to escape its responsibility for overall climate policy. on the one hand, the commission must keep an eye on the leakage of co2, the leakage of jobs, the leakage of competitiveness and take action. on the other hand, in the face of the lobby which sometimes tends to exaggerate the risk of leaks, the commission must respond to the demands of this side with substantiated facts and sometimes also with a certain degree of suspicion. the commission's task is therefore to meet both challenges and not to oppose them.
mr president, it is important that we can recapitalise european banks. it is important that we can create a financial firewall in order to secure the financial stability of the european economy. let us not forget, however, that it is also important to establish the most vital firewall for europe’s economies, namely growth. if we cannot achieve the credibility of future economic growth, none of the other things we are talking about will help in the long run, and that must not be forgotten when we are talking about ‘more europe’. we need a more open europe, a more competitive europe and a more dynamic europe, but sometimes i feel that we discuss ‘more europe’ in the sense of more institutions, more forums for decision-making and more and different structures. the risk of that is that we will end up not with more europe but with more ‘europes’: more divided and unable to benefit from the fact that the european economy is the world’s biggest. however, we also need the world’s biggest markets and that is why the commission needs to enter an era of reform at the same time as we enter the era of austerity – which is necessary but is not enough. we need more growth as the firewall for the european economy, and more europe – not more ‘europes’.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the abolition of internal borders and the possibility to travel and stay within the entire schengen area for up to three months is a cornerstone of the eu and this is important for all eu citizens, whether they come from sweden, romania, the netherlands or bulgaria. romania and bulgaria fulfil all the technical requirements and therefore should also be allowed to participate in schengen cooperation. the council's blocking of these two countries' accession to schengen is therefore against the rules. we cannot treat some countries one way and others another, and ignore the rules that exist. it is a question of populism and nationalism in some member states. i want a concrete answer to what finland and the netherlands really mean and expect. in conclusion, the commission has walls should not be built either inside or outside europe and the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. if there is ever a time when the voice of the european parliament should be heard clearly and unambiguously, it is in such contexts, that is, when human rights and freedoms are being violated all over the world. now we are talking about north africa and we are talking more specifically about certain countries there. the copts are a minority in egypt, but we know that there are other minorities and we must not only speak about this once in a while, but that this voice is heard constantly and persistently. this is what the treaty of lisbon requires and expects of us. human rights and freedoms are not something we should impose on these countries, but rather something that should lift them up. i cannot help but recall what it was like when saudi troops were called into bahrain. it was actually embarrassing, if not famous, to see the saudi troops and tanks coming in and mangling people who were thirsty and hungry for freedom, considering that it was we in the west, if by west you mean the united states and europe, who had equipped these troops with tanks and weapons. we did this because we put stability before democracy, and i think this must be a lesson for us in the future: not to hold stability so high that we accept that democracy is trampled underfoot or not lifted up strongly and clearly enough. we have not done so and that reflection must now be given room and must prevail in the future. the oil was in saudi arabia and it is still there, but democracy must also come there.
deputising for the rapporteur. − madam president, i will try to stand in for sharon bowles, although it will not be an easy task. she regrets that she cannot be here because she is currently in a meeting of the conference of committee chairs with the college of commissioners – at least one of whom is here – and, of course, the issues covered by the committee on economic and monetary affairs weigh heavily at this time. this proposal, to increase the callable capital of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), is another example of the econ committee working efficiently while still subjecting the matter to proper parliamentary scrutiny. the result is a far stronger text, which recognises the responsibility of the representatives of the eu shareholding in the ebrd and reinforces the reasons for, and the direction of, our involvement in this institution. by way of background, the ebrd is the first international financial institution of the post-cold-war period and was created to support the development of market economies in eastern europe following the widespread collapse of communist regimes. following the arab spring, the international shareholders of the ebrd decided to increase the callable capital so that the bank could extend its operations into countries such as egypt. initially, the matter was considered non-controversial and the european council did not amend the proposal. however, the committee decided that it wished to highlight and address in the text a number of issues, which have been successfully negotiated with the council and commission. these included emphasis on the fact that the union’s representation in the ebrd governing bodies should encourage it to demonstrate consistency with the europe 2020 objectives – in order to enhance the overall coherence of the union’s external action policy – and on the importance of the ebrd publicly providing transparent information about beneficiaries and the impact of its financial intermediary operations. furthermore, as a result of the committee’s amendments, the governor of the erbd for the union should now report annually to parliament on the promotion of the union’s objectives with regard to the eu’s external action policy, the europe 2020 strategy and the significant increase in transfer to renewable, energy-efficient technologies. the governor of the ebrd for the union will also be required to report annually on the effectiveness of the existing system and on measures to ensure the transparency of ebrd operations through financial intermediaries. a further aspect which required considerable negotiation in the trialogue was finding wording to best describe the characteristics and activities of tax havens. the econ committee was keen to request not only that the text should recognise the oecd definition but also that some more specific characteristics of tax havens were recognised. i hope that the ebrd will be able to use this additional callable capital to support its activities as it starts its work in egypt and other countries following the arab spring.
deputising for the rapporteur. − madam president, i have nothing more to add, but i do think that it is important that in our committee we can now look forward to receiving annual reports from the governor of the ebrd. it is very good that, for once in this house, we can salute a bank.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. a big thank you to the rapporteur, mr david casa, who has done a very good job. the liberal group is generally in favour of the commission's green paper. europe needs closer coordination of its vat systems in order to improve and strengthen the internal market. vat systems are too differently designed and this creates obstacles for companies operating across national borders. we therefore need better coordination of vat policy within the union and we welcome the harmonisation of vat rates. we support the idea of fiscal neutrality. lowering the tax on labour and raising vat on certain vat rates is a good idea. individuals and companies shall not be subject to increased tax burdens. it is also good that the report highlights the importance of looking more closely at the consequences for regional and local selfgovernment in terms of taxation rights in the event of a transition from direct to indirect taxation. this could mean a lot to a lot of countries. in addition, as already mentioned, we need to limit the number of vat exemptions which create higher administrative costs and bureaucracy. i must admit, however, that there is one exception which i strongly support and which carl haglund also supported, namely the question of the vat exemption for non-profit organisations. the european commission opened an infringement procedure against sweden this spring because of the vat exemption for non-profit organisations. together with parliamentarians from six countries, i have put forward a joint proposal for vat exemption for the non-profit sector and i am pleased that the proposal for national vat exemptions for non-profit organisations received such strong support in the committee and from the rapporteur. it sends an important signal to the commission: voluntary non-profit work must be encouraged and not stifled. i would also like to stress the importance of treating all books and newspapers in the same way, regardless of their format, when it comes to setting vat rates. i would like to thank the president and the commissioner very much and wish the commissioner every success in a difficult and challenging job.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i can only say that this is a good report. the focus is where it should be, namely on increasing efficiency, reducing red tape and fighting fraud more vigorously. there is much to be gained by improving the vat directive in these areas. more specifically, i would like to raise the issue of vat rules for non-profit organisations. there are weaknesses in the directive. austria, denmark, finland and sweden have been criticised by the commission for not applying the existing rules correctly. these countries may need to make some adjustments to their national rules on associations, but the main problem is at european level. the best solution would be to introduce provisions in the vat directive allowing member states to apply general vat exemptions to the non-profit sector. we need to be restrictive in allowing for derogations, but in this case it is entirely justified to increase national flexibility. the general vat exemption for non-profit organisations is an excellent way of promoting civil society. the principle of direct association is the cornerstone of a well-functioning democracy and it is quite possible to design such an exception in such a way that it does not distort competition. we are talking about non-profit activities on a limited scale which are clearly different from commercial activities. the main purpose of the exemption is not to strengthen the non-profit associations' finances but to reduce the administrative burden for the firemen who, in their spare time, manage the budgetary work. the derogation cannot therefore be replaced by subsidies, but it is the reduction of bureaucracy that is important. it is positive that the report fully supports this approach to vat in the non-profit sector, and it is a very important signal to the commission for the continuing process. i would also like to thank the rapporteur very much and thank him for the floor.
madam president, to mr bloom i would say that i am happy every day that we have such a wise and humble colleague. (laughter) fru talman! jag delar den kritik som riktas mot det här paketet och president obamas försök att hindra frihandel. vi vet ju att fri marknadsekonomi och frihandel är vägen till framgång och till bättre ekonomiska förutsättningar för hela världen. nu är inte detta överraskande och framför allt är det demokraterna som felar i sina ansträngningar för att slå vakt om frihandeln. republikanerna må ha fel i många avseenden, men de har alltid varit bättre när det gäller frihandel. förvisso tycker jag nog att en del av kollegerna i europaparlamentet också kan tänka på den europeiska erfarenheten. i går fick vi ett förslag om en jordbrukspolitik som innebär allt annat än frihandel och det finns många förslag i europaparlamentet som talar för att vi ska begränsa handeln även i europa. men jag hoppas och delar kollegan schaakes bedömning (hon är förresten inte närvarande) att just nu när kongressen inte riktigt vet vart besluten ska gå, så har vi möjlighet att förhandla fram ett bättre förslag, som tar hänsyn till både de ekonomiska problem som finns i usa och de ekonomiska problem som finns i europa. det är trots allt underskotten som är de djupt grundläggande problemen, och vi måste komma ifrån underskotten i såväl usa som i europa. endast så kan vi få en fungerande ekonomi. jag skulle vilja avsluta med att påpeka att tea party-rörelsen i usa gör det svårare för obama att få fram ett rimligt förslag, vilket vi inte får glömma. måtte vi slippa tea party-rörelsen i europa – annars kommer det att bli ännu besvärligare att få fram förslag som grundar sig på en sund ekonomisk politik som skapar välstånd på båda våra kontinenter. jag skulle vilja säga att president obama är en god vän och en bra kombattant när det gäller europa.
madam president, i supported the resolution calling for a comprehensive plan to save the eurozone because i do think that we have to give a clear message to the council to take fast, tough and decisive measures in relation to sovereign debt. i do think that we have to move forward to a more community method and less intergovernmental deals. however, when i read in the resolution that we call for a plan for an economic ‘government’ – rather than ‘governance’ – of the eurozone, i think that at least we have to ask ourselves the question: are we calling for a two-step europe? with ‘a two-step europe’, i mean that a part of europe which is not yet reformed, the eurozone, will remain behind, and the rest of europe that has reformed will go forward. i do think that it is very important that we call for what brings unity, cohesion and solidarity. we need common solutions for the eurozone because we have an integrated market. we have an integrated financial system, we have integrated banks. we need profound reforms in the member states of the eurozone that have not done so. we have to have real market integration, complete the internal market and open up the internal market for services. we need more unity, more cohesion and more solidarity, not new divisions in europe.
madam president, i sincerely supported the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen, as they have fulfilled all the criteria set out in the schengen evaluation process. this has been acknowledged both by the council and parliament. we cannot change the rules during the process and discriminate against new member states just because of the domestic debate in some of the schengen member states. we have to stand up for freedom of movement in europe. freedom of movement is one of the cornerstones of the european union. i am sure that both the bulgarian and the romanian authorities will take all their responsibilities and continue to be committed to putting in place and implementing the schengen acquis. to protect our citizens in the schengen area we are not going to build more walls, we have to move forward to a common migration asylum policy. we have to have better police cooperation. we have to implement the new frontex legislation. it is not a time for divisions in europe. once again it is time for more unity, more cohesion, and not for fractions.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of energy products, which is a matter for the member states. the proposal also risks eroding local self-government. that is why i am voting against the report.
in writing. - at the european parliament's meeting in brussels on 13 october, we voted in favour of the resolution on preparations for the european council on 23 october. we share the view that the eu, and the eu as a whole, needs a stricter framework, but we want to stress that this must not lead to a division of the eu into different structures. europe's challenges concern us all and need to be met by common decisions
mr president, i would like to thank you. this resolution is an important resolution because it is about society increasing accessibility and not disabled people, women and men, with disabilities. i am particularly pleased that the resolution highlights the gender perspective on this issue. reduced freedom for disabled people usually leads to increased caring by women. women with disabilities are also more likely to suffer from poverty and social exclusion. in a socially sustainable society, there is no double discrimination against women with disabilities. in a socially sustainable society, women and men with disabilities enjoy a good quality of life and are not socially excluded. however, current austerity policies are seriously hampering the prospects for achieving a socially sustainable society.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. - madam president! - what is it? in view of the eu's sustainable development objectives, the rules on public procurement must be amended to encourage all public actors to set high environmental, climate, animal welfare and social standards throughout the production process. today many people want to, but actually refuse because there are too many ambiguities, both in the directive and in its application. some other brief requirements: the focus must be shifted from minimum cost to life-cycle costs. it must be clear that it is ok to set higher animal welfare standards than the minimum levels set by the eu. the directive must make clear that it does not prevent any member state from complying with ilo convention 94. the requirements imposed should of course apply to all subcontractors. the monitoring of the requirements also needs to be improved. i would like to thank heidi rühle for her excellent cooperation and for a good report.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i am glad that this report seeks to broaden the perspective of what is economically sustainable. today's procurement rules have too narrow a business-economic perspective, i.e. often the lowest possible price. but a low price also has its price, for example in terms of its impact on social and ecological sustainability. thus, it also affects women and men very differently. life cycle analyses and a sustainability and gender dimension in procurement are therefore required. i hope that this will lead to a socioeconomic approach to procurement and thus to a shift away from short-term profit-making.
madam president, i would like to thank you. our children in school, people who are sick in the hospital and elderly people in the home have the same right to good quality food as we who can choose the store. i am therefore very pleased that we have agreed that value for money, cost-effectiveness and not just low price should be criteria for public procurement. it is important that we define together what it means. production methods, environmental awareness, sustainability and animal welfare are very important criteria, but they should not provide an opportunity or excuse to discriminate against operators or suppliers from other european countries. the same conditions shall apply if the same criteria are met. it is also very important that we agree that we must simplify, be more flexible and reduce bureaucracy to ensure that smes also compete on equal terms and can really offer this opportunity for quality and healthy food. i am glad that several of my colleagues have also drawn attention to the need for 'e-procurement'. this is a major part of our commitment to digital europe and a well-functioning internal market. thank you.
rapporteur. − madam president, we stand before a number of crucial meetings for the european economy as well as for the global economy: this week the european council and next week the g20 meeting in cannes. this report aims to present the european parliament’s position ahead of the g20 meeting. it is a meeting that will take place at a time of severe and difficult economic times all over the world, not least in our part of the world. it is also a meeting that will deal with the fact that the world economy is characterised by imbalances that can easily be described as countries with surpluses and those with deficits. but, behind that, lies the fact that we have a number of emerging economies that have contributed to changing the global economy and have defeated poverty in large areas of the world. however, there are still a number of countries in poverty who need more growth and more opportunities. we can see the fact that currency policies in some major economies are contributing to the imbalances. we can see that the lack of competitiveness in a number of other countries is also adding to this. we need to achieve a balance at global level, and that requires global governance and proper institutions. first of all, i think we need to be aware of the fact that in countries and regions with a lack of competitiveness we need new policies and reforms. but at the same time we need to ensure that we have a flow of trade with these emerging economies which are currently protecting themselves with artificial currency policies. the report has very broad support in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and i would like to forward my thanks to the shadow rapporteurs, who have made broad compromises possible. we underline the need to tackle structural misalignments and thereby the prime causes of the current imbalances. we need to ensure that we have responsible monetary policies at global level, and we need to achieve currency policies that are convertible and open up more trade possibilities between the countries with surpluses and those with deficits. but it is also important to look at the institutional set-up. the more we want global governance, the more need there is for accountability, transparency and legitimate institutions. we think it goes without saying that the g20 is one of the most important structures. but it is also important that we achieve more global participation, better implementation of decisions and a higher level of transparency. here we also underline the importance of the imf and the wto because, within a better structure, decisions and discussions in the g20 can also achieve legitimacy and transparency by being implemented in the imf. in the report we underline the need for the european union to be able to speak with a strong voice, and we underline the need for the european union to contribute to strong global governance and strong global leadership and to make sure that we are adapting international global institutions to the realities of today.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in principle, i am very much in favour of the introduction of the european semester, which contributes to greater economic coordination and budgetary discipline. however, this weekend's summit sends a worrying signal through the proposal to further strengthen the eurogroup. the eu is a union of 27 countries, with all member states being treated equally. the european union is not a single entity, but a single entity. the european parliament is also discussing the division between euro and non-euro countries. i understand the desire of the euro countries to act, but in times of unrest it is particularly important to keep the union together and not to divide it, also with regard to the european planning deadline. the economies of all 27 eu countries are closely interlinked. we're all in this together.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to raise a point which has already been raised by several speakers in this debate. parliamentary influence in the european semester needs to be increased. this applies both at national and european level. if the process only results in a less than transparent trade in cows between national governments, as it did this year, it cannot be of any greater value. to create real legitimacy, we need openness and a proper discussion. i would also like to highlight the social aspect, which has been too weak throughout this year's planning period. poverty, unemployment, poor working conditions, social disparities and a weak social security system are all aspects that have been overlooked, despite their central role in the european economy. the crisis we are facing is as much a social one as an economic one. a major reason for the skewed priorities and analysis is that the social partners and the socially engaged ngos have not yet been given a clear role in the process. they must have one now. without active and strong social action, sustainable growth cannot be achieved.
in writing. - in its report on global economic governance, the european parliament expresses its view that discussions on a global financial transaction tax should be concluded 'as soon as possible'. this is our view, because we consider that the conditions for such a procedure are minimal and the risk of damage is significant. the sooner this tax is abolished as a solution to the problems of the global economy, the sooner the problems of the global economy can be addressed by reforms that address real problems. there is no reason to let this issue continue to live as if it were a solution to the major global problems discussed in the report.
in writing. − the report on the situation of single mothers describes that education and information on sexual and reproductive rights for women, especially young women, is crucial to avoid unwanted pregnancies. we are committed to women's sexual and reproductive rights, but we do not think that this text should be included in the report. there are many different reasons why women are single mothers, and one reason may be that they have chosen to be.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to express my support for mrs estrela and thank her for her initiative in calling on the council to open negotiations with parliament. i would also like to thank the polish presidency, which has really made a great effort in this area. i am convinced that it is through negotiations that we can open doors in this area, but we must be able to negotiate on the basis of a proposal. i also want to take this opportunity to emphasize the importance of shared parenting for the children. there is a strong case for a better balance between family and work, for both women and men, leading to better social development, both from a gender perspective and from an economic perspective, especially a long-term economic perspective. it is therefore high time that all parties involved took their responsibilities and sat down at the negotiating table. only then can we find a solution to this problem.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. tax evasion, fraud and lack of transparency cost the eu and its member states many millions of euros in lost tax revenue every year. i therefore welcome this debate. it is important to discuss how we can strengthen the eu regulatory framework to avoid tax evasion and 'double non-taxation'. as has been pointed out, this is particularly important today in the light of the economic and financial crisis and the large increase in public debt in europe. a comprehensive and sustainable fiscal consolidation is necessary, because the debt crisis is also a fiscal crisis. the lack of coordination of tax policies is contributing to the deepening of the debt crisis. the necessary but painful debt reduction requires spending cuts, increased public savings and, in many cases, tax increases. taxes are necessary to finance the common good, but they must also be seen as legitimate and used effectively. there is, of course, broad support in the european parliament for the need to tackle tax evasion, double taxation and tax avoidance. i myself have put forward some proposals in this area in the european parliament's annual tax report, for which i am the rapporteur, and which will be discussed in the econ committee in november and later in the plenary. i am particularly concerned about the use of loopholes in the european regulatory framework whereby international companies operating in the eu try to avoid paying taxes within the union, which sven giegold also raises. the ambition must be that every tax euro which is deliberately withheld from the state through clever tax structures in the future must be paid back to the tax authorities. i therefore understand the amendments tabled by mr giegold on the parent companies and subsidiaries directive which we are discussing today. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. but sven giegold goes further than that, and here i have a little problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. i think that at the moment it must be voluntary for companies to join the system. the aim is to create a competitive tax system that benefits crossborder activities. it is also important to allow and promote institutional competition. the imposition of a european system on smes operating only at national level risks imposing significant costs on these enterprises. i believe that the member states must continue to decide on the tax rates themselves. it's important from a budgetary point of view. different tax rates may promote healthy tax competition and lead to increased european competitiveness. as regards the bilateral tax treaties concluded by germany and the united kingdom with switzerland, i welcome the debate. it must be admitted that it has not been the easiest thing to get along with switzerland, or indeed for any country until recently. as we know, there are conflicts of objectives in tax policy and a balance must always be found between the different objectives. this is not the easiest of all and it is the discussion that must of course continue. i would like to end by congratulating sven giegold. the speaker accepted to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8))
madam president, i did not get the question; it was just a statement. what was the question?
madam president, yes of course, if i am able to. what i said was that i think we should be glad that it has been possible to conclude some sort of negotiations and agreements with switzerland. it has not been easy, as you know, mr langen. now we have an agreement; it could have been better, but we have an agreement, and i think that is useful and helpful.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tabled an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? the main message from the committee on economic and monetary affairs is that the new european financial supervisory authority must be given the resources it needs to function effectively. it is good that parliament is now sending a clear signal that the regulatory authorities should be built up quickly and that their budgets should be strengthened as the mandate is extended. the council's desire to cut back on the commission's proposal is completely unreasonable. the work of the european banking authority on stress tests shows that supervision needs to be made more robust. the dilution of the june stress test was due in large part to the authority's lack of strength to stand up to the banking lobby and national special interests. the more fair re-calculation of the test now carried out by the authority indicates increased independence, but still does not give an accurate picture of the state of european banks. the aim must be to enable the authority to act with complete independence in the next test, and this requires adequate resources.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a big thank you to francesca balzani, josé manuel fernandes and reimer böge who have managed to get a wide support for their proposals in a very difficult time and that is important. when i meet my constituents, i often encounter myths about the eu budget. many people believe that the eu is a heavy and growing burden on taxpayers. they hardly believe me when i tell them that the eu budget represents only about 2% of europe's public expenditure, that most of it goes back to the member states and that the rate of increase is lower than in the member states' own budgets. they also find it hard to believe that we have no debts and that we deliver a surplus back to the member states every year. unfortunately, they also often believe that all taxpayers would benefit from cuts in the eu budget. the truth is that it would make it harder for the most vulnerable countries to get out of the crisis. some member states, led by the polish presidency, are defending the eu's role in this situation against those who only care about the net result for their own national treasury. we thank you for that. in this situation, we have chosen a cautious line. we are cutting more than ever in the european parliament's own budget. we are asking for increases in just three priority areas: investment in research and development, employment and lifelong learning, aid to palestine and north africa, and payment appropriations for the structural funds so that they can really help with the economic crisis. these are demands which i am very glad that we in the european parliament are unanimous in defending. i am convinced that they have the support of many member states as well. let us try to find a solution that enables us to defend the role of the eu and strengthen these economic priorities.
mr president, my thanks to the rapporteurs. this has been very complex, as the commissioner has said, particularly because it has been a dossier handled by two committees at parliament: the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control. as the s&d coordinator of the budgets committee, i wish to thank the rapporteurs for their fruitful cooperation. my group has sometimes been a bit difficult for the rapporteurs: we have made problems for them, but it has been for a good cause, because we have to use this opportunity to move forward. we have to find the proper balance between, on the one hand, control, proper spending, etc., and, on the other hand, swift implementation and a reasonable level of complexity for end users, for citizens. and most of all we must focus on results. we are afraid to repeat historical mistakes, but now is the time to move forward. we must recognise that the most important thing is ensuring that eu spending has a real effect on the economies of the member states and citizens. that is why we are so insistent on the issue of simplification.
in writing. - we have decided to abstain in the final vote on the 2012 budget. we would have preferred parliament to agree to a lower final amount in line with the liberal group's proposal. we want to stress the importance of looking at the quality of the budget and not just the numbers. the money will do something - add value to europe and, in particular, create common solutions to the major challenges we face. we welcome the slow reform of the budget from a grant machine to smart investment and we intend to continue to drive the process in that direction. we have therefore decided not to vote against the large blocks in the budget proposal, because that would have been a sign against the positive investments in research and innovation that they contain. but at the same time, it is important to create a targeted and realistic budget at a time when europe is struggling with a debt crisis with enormous social and economic consequences. when europe is saving, we in the european parliament should not be seeking an expanded budget. that is why we have abstained in the final vote. we hope that the conciliation process with the council will lead to a good compromise where the european added value in the content remains but where the overall expenditure ceiling is somewhat lower.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. eu politicians must also save. that is why we have been working to freeze the salaries and allowances of members of the european parliament. we have also worked to save members' travel costs and welcome the substantial savings that have now been made in the european parliament. however, we believe that more could have been done to reduce parliament's expenditure. we particularly regret that the trips to strasbourg cannot be cancelled. at the same time, it is also important to maintain a reasonable rate of investment so that europe can remain competitive in the future. now more than ever we need to invest in jobs and growth - research, development, climate and education. we are also keen to ensure that payments from the eu budget are kept at an adequate level. the reduction of these would mean the suspension of several structural fund and research projects already decided upon. the eu must be able to pay its bills. however, we would have welcomed further savings through a cut in eu agricultural aid. we voted against additional support for eu vegetable growers and in particular we believe that eu export subsidies for tobacco and alcohol should be abolished. we also believe that the eu has an important role to play in the process of democratization in north africa following the arab spring. we support the increase in the allocation for palestine and the un agency unrwa, which has had problems with reduced bilateral aid, and also with higher costs due to the arab spring.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was recently at my doctor's and when he found out that i was a member of the european parliament, he asked me directly: what are you doing to combat antibiotic resistance? i said, 'not enough,' but i also said that it was probably because health care is not primarily a matter for the eu but rather for the member states. he just shook his head and said, if the eu does nothing about one of the greatest threats to our lives, where we are totally dependent on each other, what is the eu for? i am quite understanding of that reaction, and i am very glad that we have this resolution tomorrow and that the commission will be presenting a proposal. i am quite confident that the commission will have concrete proposals on how we can develop new antibiotics. so i want to concentrate on something else and make a suggestion that i hope you will accept. one of the most important things is to produce comparable statistics showing the use of antibiotics in health care, between member states, between different regions but also in animal husbandry, between different countries, of course, but also between different animal species. based on those statistics, we would have to set reduction targets, because there's really no reason why one country should have very high antibiotic use and other countries should have very low antibiotic use. we would also have a good opportunity to analyze and learn from good examples and see what drives the use of antibiotics in some countries compared to others. of course, as many have said, people should be able to get antibiotics only after a doctor has diagnosed and prescribed them. but it is equally clear that animals should not be given antibiotics without a veterinarian having examined the animal, having identified the disease and therefore prescribing antibiotics. it cannot be that animals should be given antibiotics more readily than sick children.
writer. - mr president! - what is it? when an adult sexually abuses a child, it is a terrible crime that causes trauma to the child and will affect the child's entire future and life. the brutal abuse often does not end when the perpetrator has finished his work and walked away. soon, images and videos will be posted online showing the abuse over and over and over again. in the directive we are now voting on, the eu is taking strong action against both these types of crime, that is, those that occur in real life and those that occur on the internet. the european parliament is pleased that after long and difficult negotiations with the council and the commission, a well-developed draft law has been adopted which, for the first time in the history of the eu, requires member states to prosecute child sex tourists who commit crimes in a non-european country. i would like to thank rapporteur angelilli and the other shadow rapporteurs for a very good cooperation which has led to a result of which we can all be very proud. a citizen of the eu, for example a swede, who engages in so-called child sex tourism, that is to say, abuses children outside the eu, for example in thailand, has not previously been able to be prosecuted in his own country. at the same time, the perpetrator has very rarely been brought to justice in the country in question, such as thailand, and thus has been able to exploit children with impunity. today's directive will put an end to this by requiring member states to prosecute the citizen who commits these heinous crimes in a non-european country. it means a lot to limit these crimes and because the scale is due to the fact that it was easy to evade punishment, fewer children will be exploited. abuse on the internet can also be addressed by requiring member states to take measures to remove child pornography at source, i.e. at the server. when the pages are located in a country outside the eu territory, we should be able to remove them by blocking them. we cannot therefore guarantee that they will be blocked on the server, but we do require member states to increase cooperation with third countries in order to access the pages. the blocking of material will be an additional tool for member states to use when they have not been able to delete the material at source. with angelill's report, the european parliament has sent a clear message that what we do not accept in real life we cannot accept on the internet. the work on this directive is a great success for all of us and i thank you once again for your cooperation.
madam president, a crime is a crime, regardless of whether it is committed physically or on the net. criminal gangs commit organised crimes, regardless of the means they use. kids deserve our full protection and deserve to feel protected. that is why i have been so committed to this work. they have the right to live in freedom and security, and they also have the right to integrity on the net. i am glad that we have finally been able to agree on adopting common, legislative, concrete measures to truly combat child abuse – as is called for, by the way, in the stockholm programme. there is strong support to enhance prevention, protection and prosecution, and to protect the victim throughout the european union. child pornography images, grooming and sex tourism are finally criminalised. i fully embrace freedom of expression and freedom on the internet, but that is not the issue now. what we are voting on is the protection of innocent children from brutality on the internet, not on limiting the net. it is not about blocking the internet, it is about blocking images that are illegal on the internet. it is not about ideology or censorship, it is about violence and exploitation that can traumatise children for the rest of their lives. with this directive i believe we will succeed in strengthening the means to combat child abuse without creating a big brother society. member states will have to remove pornographic content on a webpage hosted in their territory or block such content if the server is in a third country and removal is not possible. but the directive also provides for transparent procedures and adequate safeguards. we should, of course, also engage in dialogue with the industry and service providers to make the best use of information technology, and i also call on the it industry to continue to play its role and be responsible. in this directive and in the european union programme for children we are finally putting children at the centre of european policy and creating a culture of zero tolerance. i would just like to finish with a call to nominate, in every committee in parliament, an mep responsible for children’s rights so that we can really unite forces and stand up for children in all our work.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. since 1999, eu member states have been talking about building a common european asylum system. the commitment to have this in place by 2012 has been set out repeatedly. i regret that, despite this, several of the asylum seekers are blocked in the council and that the process is proceeding at an appallingly slow pace. i welcome the fact that the polish presidency has now breathed new life into the negotiations and i sincerely hope that their good example will be followed by the next danish presidency. it is very positive that parliament is now voting on the first of the asylum reports, the directive on the grounds of protection. i would like to express my warmest and most sincere thanks to the rapporteur, mr lambert, who has done an impressive job on this report. i hope that the adoption of this directive will give the necessary impetus to the remaining negotiations on the remaining reports, such as the dublin ii regulation for which i am the rapporteur. i expect a lot from both the poles and the danes. solidarity with those who flee and have to seek refuge in europe and solidarity between our member states in taking responsibility for the refugees who reach our continent remain. solidarity is a foundation and a platform on which we must build our cooperation. the alde group and our rapporteur, mrs nadja hirsch (who is unfortunately ill today), welcome the fact that a compromise has been reached between the institutions on the so-called comparison tables. parliament called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the member states are able to implement the eu directives in their national systems. while we would like to make clearer requirements for member states to use these tables, we welcome the compromise that has now been reached. the adoption of the safeguards directive will send a positive signal about the future asylum package. it means a lot that after hard work we are taking a big step forward by adopting this first directive. i urge all parties involved to continue working towards compromise, so that we can meet the deadline we have committed to and deliver a common system by 2012. i would like to thank jean lambert again for his brilliant efforts and wish us all good luck with the great work that remains.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, on the basis of the convention on the rights of the child and the need to put the best interests of children first. child pornography is a cross-border problem that harms children, which is why i support action against it. admittedly, the technology to block sites is clunky and the sites reappear elsewhere. but it's a useful tool. however, removing or blocking material on the internet is an infringement of freedom of expression and must be done in a legally secure manner. internet users must be informed why a site is blocked and how they can appeal. it is also important that the eu rules being introduced do not interfere with swedish work against child pornography. member states which already have a good system against child pornography must be allowed to maintain it.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against sexual exploitation. but blocking sites on the internet that may host criminal material is not the answer, for such measures are more about turning a blind eye to the problem than preventing abuse. furthermore, blocking of internet pages by private actors can result in major problems from a legal security perspective. it is therefore good that this report does not focus on blocking as a method but instead recommends other measures. i voted for the report.
in writing. - i believe it is important to protect personal privacy and i am against the routine storage of detailed data on air passengers without criminal suspicion. this recommendation by the european parliament is a major improvement on the original text and i therefore appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur. however, i am sceptical about approving this agreement as it can be seen as a clear sign for the pnr system as a whole. i have therefore decided to abstain.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. remember the spring of 1848 when democratic movements in europe were awakened from the ruins. they had a prosperous spring, but were marked by internal divisions, and thus the oppressors and kings could return at the turn of the year. we must not let the arab spring meet the same fate, but we must defend the people of these countries. people are imprisoned and tortured, military trials are held and doctors are prevented from providing treatment, and then we are talking about doctors who have sworn a 2,000-year-old oath to treat everyone. thousands of saudi soldiers are invading bahrain and helping with the repression. this is another brutal oppressive regime. we must stop all military exports and we must demand that european companies exploit the situation in oppressive countries to make money. we also have to break our dependence on oil, because that's what gives these dictators control of the oil revenues and maintains their control over these countries. we must finally put a stop to the exploitation of this by european companies for their own profit.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, this question is probably for both of you. agricultural and regional policy are very much about support and regulation, but innovation requires freedom and ownership. are there any plans to create a funding system for innovation that goes beyond the market? we certainly have jessica and jeremie in regional politics now. we need a jericho for rural policy. we need funding for biogas plants and for converting or building new stables to provide better and more profitable livestock farming. is there a plan for a financing system, possibly similar to banking, but beyond the market?
madam president, i would like to thank you. the gambling market in europe is cross-border. that is why it needs and is waiting for a european response. the green paper is very welcome and important, but now the commission must go further and act. the demands of the european parliament on which we are voting today are very clear. first of all, the commission is and must act as the guardian of the treaty. the commission must act against member states which do not have a coherent gambling policy and which exclude serious, legal operators from other countries. secondly, we need european rules on gambling liability. gambling addiction is a major problem in europe, but at times it almost seems as if the finance ministers' dependence on gambling revenues is even greater. we must then ensure that the eu guarantees good protection for all consumers who gamble across borders. the member states may not like it, but the consumers do. then the protection must come with it. the commission must show that it is on the side of consumers rather than seeking revenues from gambling.
in writing. - a blanking ban in one country affects other countries. this requires common eu legislation and greater coordination of the application of rules. the european supervisory authority esma needs to have a strong and coordinating role. the agreement we voted for will permanently prohibit the naked blanking of credit swaps for government bonds, so-called cdss. we are against a ban because we don't know what effect a ban will have. there is a high risk that sovereign borrowing costs will rise, as it may become more expensive for market participants to hedge against losses in sovereign debt. no european supervisory authority, except the german one, has introduced blanket bans and such bans are not requested by the supervisory authorities themselves. that is why we abstained in today's vote.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. we must limit the use of pesticides that have a negative impact on bee health and invest more in research on both pesticides and gmos. however, we are against increasing the cap's budget beyond 2013.
in writing. - the excess mortality of europe's bees is very serious, not only because of the decline in honey production, but mainly because of the crucial role bees play as pollinators of plants, many of which are food. the health of bees needs to be included in the eu's general animal health policy. research is needed to develop medicines adapted to bees, and veterinarians need to be trained in this field. in today's vote on the report on the health of honeybees and the challenges facing the beekeeping sector, i voted in favour of the report. this is despite the fact that the text contains some points which are not in line with my views on agricultural policy and which are beyond the scope of this specific report. the main points of the report to work towards reducing the excess mortality of honeybees in europe are very important to highlight.
in writing. - i abstained on the report on state aid to public services. this report highlights the central role of the public sector in society. it is a report which in its central parts goes against the dominant neoliberal thinking in the eu. however, there are also a number of formulations in the report which i do not support, including formulations such as that it would be in the interest of the citizens that there are competing private companies in the health care sectors of society. i am saying that there should be no profit motive at all in this sector. the frightening scandals that are now being revealed in sweden in the field of venereal care clearly prove this.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. we did so because the report clearly states that this type of aid must not distort or exclude these services from competition in public procurement. the ability of competition and diversity to shape the provision of these services is also crucial to ensure quality and cost-effective use of taxpayers' money.
in writing. - i have decided to abstain from voting on the final vote on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. this is a report which highlights and makes visible poverty in europe, and i wholeheartedly support this objective. but i doubt that action at eu level is the right way to go in this case. i think we should rather act at local, regional and national level to tackle poverty and social exclusion. that is why i have decided to abstain from voting on the final vote on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. the eu member states should now build on the poverty reduction plan already in place and continue to work consistently at local, regional and national level to combat poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. - we have decided to abstain from voting in the final vote on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. we would like to stress that the report contains many important aspects of this growing problem, while we believe that several of these problems can and should be solved at national level. we support and attach great importance to the report's aim of raising awareness and problematizing the growing poverty and social exclusion at eu level. for that reason, we choose to abstain and not vote against the report as a whole. at the same time, we find it problematic that the report indicates an extension of the european globalisation adjustment fund. we do not believe that the fund is compatible with our liberal values, nor do we believe that it should continue to operate after 2013. we hope that the member states of the union will take note of this problem and of the poverty reduction plan already in place and that they will take immediate action at national level to counteract a continuing negative trend.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission's work programme is as ambitious as ever. may you succeed in your important quest, but make sure you prioritize. let me turn now to the most pressing issue from my point of view, namely how we are dealing with europe's ongoing debt crisis. this year europe has taken extremely important steps towards stronger, more cohesive cooperation with financial supervision and real rules as a firm basis for building a new and more stable europe from the ashes of the crisis. this will be the greatest challenge of all. it concerns all of us, commissioner šefčovič, that is to say the commission, parliament and the member states of the european union. it is in fact applicable to all member states, not just the euro countries. mr barroso, the other day in berlin, maroš šefčovič said the following: europe is our destiny ... that is why we must stand together and forge a stable union, a deeper union and a stronger union. the strength of europe, mr šefčovič, has been our cohesion, despite all our differences. the european commission and your role is to ensure that this cohesion can be maintained and strengthened. i hope, mr šefčovič, that this will be your top priority for 2012. the current fragmentation of europe - north, south, east, west, richer and less rich - could lead to disaster for europe if we do not act, and all eu member states will be involved.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there was a window of opportunity at the copenhagen climate summit, which many have already mentioned here. that window was closed by the trust gap that was created between the richest countries and the poorest along with the fastest growing countries. what do we do about it in durban? yes, firstly, it is crucial to get the financing of the adjustment measures for the period 2013-2020 in place if we are to overcome this confidence gap. we simply have to keep our promises. otherwise, no change and no results will be possible. our second task must be the comprehensive climate agreement after 2012. then, as one of the world's strongest and richest regions, despite the mistrust and the objections expressed in this debate, we must actually show that we are taking a leading role. without leadership, no one will follow. several have mentioned the economic crisis. it will affect us for a very long time, but does that mean that we abandon all other community building ambitions and all other political ambitions? if that is the case, we can close this parliament. the truth is, if global warming continues at the rate it has for some time now, it will affect us, not just for a crisis, but for all eternity.
president of the court of auditors. − madam president, i am honoured to be present here today before this parliament to participate in this debate on the presentation of the european court of auditors’ annual report on the implementation of the 2010 european union budget, which i already presented last week to the committee on budgetary control of this parliament. as in previous years, the court’s annual report mainly covers the reliability of the 2010 european union accounts and the regularity of transactions underlying them. this year, it also includes a chapter on the results of the european union’s spending. as regards the reliability of the european union accounts, the court concludes that the 2010 accounts present fairly the financial position of the european union and the results of its operations and cash flows at the year end. nevertheless, there remains scope to improve the quality of financial reporting and the underlying information systems – not least with respect to financial engineering instruments in relation to which the court considers that the commission must revisit the relevant accounting rule and take further action to ensure that the necessary information is available from member states to improve the commission’s supervision of those financial instruments. as regards regularity of revenue and expenditure, revenue and commitments underlying the accounts for the year ending 31 december 2010 are legal and regular in all material respects. in contrast, the payments underlying the accounts were affected by material error, with an estimated error rate of 3.7% for the european union spending as a whole. it should be noted that this is not an estimate of fraud as there are many reasons why errors may occur. overall, control systems were found to be only partially effective in ensuring the regularity of payments. cohesion, energy and transport was the most error prone group of policy areas of european union spending. after falling in previous years, the estimated error rate in 2010 was higher than than in 2009 leading to an increase in the estimated error rate for payments as a whole compared to 2009. a relatively small number of wholly ineligible projects and serious breaches of european union and national procurement rules accounted for much of the error found. there continues to be room for improving member states’correction mechanisms and audit activities, not least because some of the errors found could have been detected or corrected by member states on the basis of available information before payments were made. for the other groups of policy areas, the audit results were relatively stable. for agriculture and natural resources, the estimated error rate was 2.3%, slightly above the materiality threshold and systems were partially effective. direct payments covered by the integrated administrative control system, which accounted for almost eur 40 billion of the eur 57 billion spent, were found to be free from material error, but spending on rural development remains prone to error. for research and other internal policies and external aid, development and enlargement, the court concluded that payments were not materially affected by error, although systems remained only partially effective and there was a significant risk of error for interim and final payments. finally, for administrative and other expenditure, the court concluded that it was not affected by material error and that systems were effective as in previous years. the commission provides its own assessments of the capacity of internal control systems to ensure the regularity of spending in the annual activity reports of the directorates-general and in its synthesis report. in those reports, the commission includes a number of reservations highlighting areas of risk. however, the court finds that the scope and scale of those reservations made for the 2010 financial year should have been greater in several areas, including in cohesion where the court considers that the commission’s approach may lead to an underestimation of the amounts at risk. the annual activity reports of the directorates-general also provide a self-assessment of performance, including the results achieved from european union spending. this year, for the first time, the court presents the results of its review of the performance reporting on three directorates-general responsible for much eu spending. the court recommends that the commission puts more focus on performance in annual activity reports, including on economy and efficiency, and that it sets appropriate targets for assessing progress towards achieving multiannual objectives. in addition, the court makes recommendations in areas of shared management for improving the definition of objectives and indicators and the monitoring of progress and results based on the main performance audit results in the court’s special reports. that completes my summary of the main points in the annual report for the 2010 financial year. i believe this year’s annual report confirms the main message of previous years. after many years of incremental improvements in systems, there remain significant risks to the regularity of payments and scope for improving the results obtained from european union spending. the proposals for sectoral legislation governing spending after 2013 provide an opportunity to address those risks by reforming legislative frameworks and redesigning control systems. reforms should focus on improving both regularity of the performance while also reducing the costs of control and ensuring adequate accountability. in addition, there have been a number of significant developments in european union economic governance that risk giving rise to gaps in public accountability and public audit. last month, the heads of the european union supreme audit institutions and the european court of auditors expressed their concerns on this matter and they called for the principles of transparency, accountability and public audit to be respected when public funds are at stake. the establishment of the european stability mechanism was identified as an opportunity to apply these principles. promoting transparency and accountability is a responsibility shared by all institutions. it is crucial now when the pressure on public finances is high, the importance of the european union meeting its objectives is great, and the need to build citizens’ trust in the european union and its institutions is acute. i trust that the annual report i have had the honour to present to you today will provide the european parliament with a sound basis for playing its role in ensuring accountability in respect of the european union funds for the 2010 financial year.
member of the commission. − mr president, president caldera, honourable members of the parliament and of the court of auditors, the key messages outlined by president caldera demonstrate that over the years we have made progress in improving the financial management of the eu budget. for 2010 the accounts are clean; all commitments and revenues as well. as regards payments, the overall level of quantifiable errors found by the court is 3.7%. for internal policies, external action and administration, the level of quantifiable errors is below the materiality threshold of 2%. agriculture is fairly stable with a 2.3% level of quantifiable errors. moreover, the court says that for 2010, direct aid – about eur 400 billion paid to millions of farmers – is free from material error. but some other policy errors, and in particular cohesion, still deserve serious efforts. implementation of the eu budget in the areas where management is shared with the member states is a complex issue, and reducing errors there remains our main challenge and priority. in 2010, the majority of the errors were concentrated on seven operational programmes in three member states. however, the analysis of the errors in cohesion policy presented with the cohesion package last month shows that from 2006 until 2009 more member states contributed to the level of errors, including so-called net payers. the commission considers that it is not primarily the design of the programmes that is wrong, but the way they are implemented on the spot. as president caldeira said, in the majority of cases, the member states’ authorities had sufficient information to have detected and corrected the errors prior to certifying the expenditure to the commission. this is unacceptable. it reflects a lack of responsibility by the authorities involved despite their enhanced obligations under shared management as required by the treaty. the commission has confronted the member states concerned with those findings. we expect to receive quick and appropriate responses from them in this regard. the commission will, of course, continue to act preventively providing guidance, assistance and advice to member states’ authorities, but it will also continue to strictly apply corrective measures such as interruptions and suspensions of payments and financial corrections. for the next financial period, the commission has proposed the definite reduction of the financial allocation to member states that do not address effectively the weaknesses in their systems. another issue raised in the court’s report refers to the financial engineering instruments. last week, several members of the committee on budgetary control expressed concerns regarding the management of these instruments and their inherent risks at member state level. in the meantime, the problems identified by the court of auditors have been addressed. the necessary adjustments have been made in due time before the closure of the 2010 accounts. moreover, the commission has already proposed amending the current legal basis to obtain systematically the information needed from the national authorities. as regards the effectiveness of the systems, it is worth noting that the court found that more than 90% of the errors are identified outside the commission at the level of beneficiaries. this is of particular importance when we know that 80% of the budget is spent under shared management. that said, the commission agrees with the court that the definition of objectives and indicators and the monitoring of progress and results need further improvement. therefore, identification of objectives, targets, milestones and key performance indicators are now systematically included in all our legislative proposals for the next financial period. the commission will issue the very first evaluation report based on article 318 of the treaty by the end of this year. finally, let me say a few words on the various european financial assistance mechanisms. the commission agrees that the principles of transparency, accountability and public audit should be respected when public funds are at stake. today, the court of auditors is entitled to audit the balance of payments facility and the european financial stabilisation mechanisms to the extent that they are guaranteed by the eu budget, and note 9 to the union’s accounts gives adequate information on the existing lending operations. i am pleased that the european court of auditors has confirmed that the commission is on the right track. despite these rather good results, there remains ample room for improvement, and the commission takes full responsibility for addressing these areas together with the other financial actors involved, in particular the member states. several new measures included in our proposals for the next generation of eu spending programmes are inspired by the court and the discharge authority’s recommendations. whether these measures will become eu law depends now on the co-legislators – the council and this assembly. the commission will facilitate the negotiations and hopes these necessary improvements will be supported.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the court of auditors for a very good report. i think you've succeeded with the art piece in both presenting more detail and becoming more comprehensible. however, let me begin by putting this year's discharge procedure into context. confidence in europe's ability to cope with budgetary discipline and the management of public funds is shaken to its foundations. it is up to us, in cooperation with the commission, the court of auditors and, above all, the member states, to begin to show that europe in the eu is at least capable of dealing with these issues and thus rebuild confidence. that is why this year's discharge procedure is particularly important. nothing can be hidden, nothing can escape critical scrutiny and that is our responsibility. if i am to be honest and sum up the message i hear from the president of the court of auditors, mr silva caldeira, and commissioner šemeta, i understand that the court of auditors says that the situation is stable and that we do not see any dramatic changes. the commission agrees but shows that we are on the right track and sees success in areas such as aid and research. the only problem is, stable isn't good enough. we were disappointed last year. to hear that it looks about the same this year is unfortunately not good news. what i think "sticks out" of the stable is unfortunately the negative. three quick observations from me: first of all, we have serious problems with cohesion policy. in this area, the member states have a great responsibility. a small number of member states - often the same ones - are responsible for the lion's share of the problems year after year, which is unacceptable. the court of auditors points out that 58% of the problems are those which could have been encountered by the member states. the second concerns the question of financial engineering instruments. when i read chapter 4 of the court of auditors, i am genuinely concerned, especially since the commission says that the use of these instruments is to be increased and that they involve a great deal of risk. last but not least, the question of how the budget crisis affects the eu budget. we are in the midst of a crisis, a budgetary crisis in the member states. this obviously involves risks for the eu, both financial risks and risks of further errors. we need to look into this. i am grateful that president caldeira is raising the problems of the efsm and the esm. we need more scrutiny and parliamentary influence on this. we'll talk about it more, we promise. thank you for your good work so far. i look forward to continuing our cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for allowing me to return to the debate for a second time. the member states have a great responsibility. that is why we have for the first time invited member states to the committee to be part of the hearing and the discharge. we have important questions. why do we often have the same problems in the same member states with the same programme? what can we do about them? shared responsibility must not mean no responsibility. the eu also has a responsibility. even we have a responsibility. our main responsibility at the moment - now that we have co-decision - is to learn from the problems, especially now that we are reviewing virtually all the policy areas where we have problems. do we have to stop some programs? is it true that we have to review certain programmes in certain regions? it is not possible to hide behind member states, even if that is where the problems are most acute. the commission now has the right to suspend certain payments, to suspend certain payments. but if we are having the same problem year after year - we talked a lot about that last year - then perhaps we should talk more about the grounds on which these payments are being resumed unless the problems in certain member states and certain contexts have been solved. i therefore think it is important that in our further work we emphasize that we have a shared responsibility, a shared responsibility for the budget, a shared responsibility for the budgetary problems, which means that we also have a shared responsibility for finding the solutions. we must incorporate the lessons of this year's discharge into the design of the new programmes we are currently working on.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on the report. it states that the aim of the proposal is to strengthen the sense of belonging to the european union. this is one of many artificial symbols used to create an eu identity in citizens. the vote on the motion for a resolution is not a defence of nationalism, but a statement against the eu's attempt to create artificial cultural identities to justify the creation of superpowers.
in writing. − the report contains a letter stating that the chairman and the board of the regulatory body for the railway sector will be appointed by national parliaments. in sweden, the transport board is subordinate to the government and it is the government that is responsible for the appointments and not the swedish parliament. despite this letter, we chose to vote in favour of the report, as it proposes important measures such as further opening up of the market, improved investment opportunities, independent monitoring bodies and increased transparency. this is a key element in achieving a non-discriminatory and competitive european railway sector.
in writing. − since 2003, when the first railway package was adopted, the member states of europe have had to implement all the requirements agreed at that time, including market opening. nevertheless, the process has been extremely slow and serious shortcomings have been pointed out by the commission in several cases. competition is still not sufficiently free and small market players are still disadvantaged by traditionally dominant national players acting as railway companies and infrastructure managers in a single entity. in this context, we welcome the proposal to designate national supervisory bodies to monitor the implementation of the rules adopted. we believe that at this stage it is both valuable and necessary for independent regulatory bodies to support the process of opening up the railway market in europe.
in writing. - at the european parliament's meeting in strasbourg on 16 november, i voted in favour of a report on the creation of a common european railway area. the report contains a letter stating that the chairman and the board of the regulatory body for the railway sector will be appointed by national parliaments. in sweden, the transport board is subordinate to the government and it is the government that is responsible for the appointments and not the swedish parliament. i have chosen, despite this letter, to vote in favour of the report, as it proposes important measures such as further opening up of the market, improved investment opportunities, independent monitoring bodies and increased transparency. this is a key element in achieving a non-discriminatory and competitive european railway sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the above text. as a member of the committee on development, it is natural to support a resolution with many good points about eu aid, such as the text on transparency in the extractive industries and the increasing support for trade-related aid. however, in this explanation of vote i would like to disagree with the part of paragraph 12 which refers to the introduction of an international tax on financial transactions. i am firmly convinced that the introduction of such a tax is not the right way to go, because it would put significant obstacles in the way of the poor countries' chance of development.
madam president, i would like to thank you. net neutrality can be simply described as a matter of freedom. full freedom for the market and its operators often risks being reduced to the users and consumers. for this reason, net neutrality was of paramount importance in the negotiation of the telecoms package, and for this reason it was also one of the key issues for neelie kroes when she was questioned by parliament about the fact that she was running for her post as commissioner. against this background, it is of course not enough to have any traces of partial self-regulation or the very vague reply of the commissioner. so my appeal is: come back with precise answers to a serious question from the industrial committee. it is important not only for the committee but for many citizens of the european union. please also return with the exact binding texts requested by catherine trautmann.
mr president, the open internet and net neutrality have been a precondition for the rapid change in development of the internet and change in our societies. this should be underlined because, if we are to have the same rapid change in the future, we need to ensure that europe can be the home of innovative development in internet and broadband services. i get a little bit worried when i hear the swedish representative of the socialist group calling for some sort of regulation because, if the internet had been regulated ten years ago, we would not have seen the same development of new services as we have seen. the impact and strength of the internet lie in its freedom, as we have seen in other parts of the world, and as we can see from the change in our own european union, with all the opportunities this has created for citizens. net neutrality offers us the opportunity to create a digital single market – not 27 different markets, but an open market – where we can get rid of such things as international roaming in the european union, and where we can ensure that network congestion is dealt with by increasing capacity. we can develop new and better kinds of broadband, as we have done together with the polish presidency. we can ensure that we lead the world in mobile data traffic. that is the way we shall face the future and that is the way we shall ensure net neutrality and a free and open internet: not by regulating but by being open to new innovations, because then europe can take the lead.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu is built on a foundation of respect for human rights. often we criticize countries outside our union for violating these rights, but we forget that we have to clean up our own backyard. it is painful to note that systematic discrimination on ethnic grounds still exists in the eu. the roma are a group that has been constantly oppressed throughout history. i do not think that any of our member states will be free of debt. the eu institutions are committed to putting an end to these abuses. yet, racist statements and discriminatory decisions are constantly being made. the commission has condemned this type of event. it is high time to ensure that the commission also follows up on its promises with concrete action and measures against those member states which continue to discriminate against roma and thus defy the fundamental and founding values of the eu.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. europe today is in great need of strong and sustainable growth. without higher growth rates, it will be difficult to resolve the acute debt crisis and to cope with global competition in the slightly longer term. in this situation, we cannot afford to miss a single opportunity to improve the growth potential of the european economy. we must turn every stone to make the single market work more efficiently. one area of particular potential is the digital sector. if the existing barriers to digital services in the internal market were removed, the replacement of this type of service in europe would likely increase the market. this would have a direct economic value, would promote the development of digital services and would also provide important international competitive advantages to european companies operating in this field. a significant barrier to the digital single market is the rules in the vat directive that say that cultural services should not have the same low vat rate when delivered digitally as when delivered in physical form. these rules are outdated and need to be changed immediately. of course, books, newspapers and music which are transmitted in digital form should be subject to the same tax treatment as their physical counterparts.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? i am pleased to present this report, which is about strengthening gender equality work throughout the european parliament. this is a report which i have taken over from the former chair of the committee on equality, eva-britt svensson, a party colleague of mine and a source of inspiration for our continued work on gender equality here in the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. gender mainstreaming is about doing just that, namely ensuring that all policy areas, as well as our own organisation and governing bodies, integrate a gender perspective. in the context of gender equality, it is common to speak of the importance of a dual strategy. we are therefore calling for specific measures on gender equality, specific budgetary resources for gender equality initiatives and specific bodies such as our committee here in parliament. on the other hand, the gender perspective must permeate everything we do, both in the way our organisation operates and in the way we work with the different policy areas. all policy areas - and i mean all! - can have a gender perspective. perhaps the most obvious are labour market and social policy, but also, of course, transport policy, climate change, cultural policy, education policy, etc. in all areas, a gender perspective is needed if we are to succeed in formulating policies that create more equality and that can ensure that common policies and solutions are based on and address the needs of both women and men. often the work begins at home, in one's own house, that is, for us in this house, our parliament. we cannot be credible in our work and our demands to the outside world as a parliament if we are not at the same time prepared to live as we teach. it means that the most basic principles of equality must be present in our house. this report identifies several extremely important actions, such as: adopting and implementing a gender mainstreaming action plan in the european parliament; systematically using gender budgeting, i.e. analysing the budget from a gender perspective to see how the different measures affect women and men; strengthening the gender perspective in all committee work; today the situation is very different, some committees are doing a fantastic job on this issue, while others definitely need to evolve; increasing the proportion of women in decision-making positions in our governing bodies, in delegations and in committee roles; ensuring that gender issues are addressed through the work of the different parliamentary delegations and our dialogue with developing countries, using the expertise and generosity generated by the european institute for gender equality. gender mainstreaming is one of those concepts that can mean great change, but unfortunately can also be ineffective if it is not filled with political will and concrete action. that is why i am pleased that parliament is supporting this report. it sends a clear signal that we, as democratically elected representatives, are ready to take a step further, to strengthen our work for equal value, equal rights and equal opportunities for women and men in all policy areas and in the internal workings and governing bodies of parliament.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank your speaker for the very good things you have mentioned. you are stressing what is already in the report. i would like to emphasize once again that i cannot in any way take credit for the content of this report. it is a report which i have been given by eva-britt svensson. however, i am as determined as eva-britt svensson to make sure that this is the case. i am equally determined in my work to ensure that the european parliament really has a gender perspective.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the sea can be very happy to have a commissioner who actually cares. it's a success! but if we are to save the sea, fisheries and coastal communities, we need renewal. renewal requires creativity and innovation and innovation requires freedom and individual responsibility. we therefore need to transform parts of the support packages we have - in this case for an integrated maritime policy, for rural development, etc. we need to create loan funds so that creators can borrow money in a reasonable way, which they can't do in the current financial system. it would make our common resources last much longer and freedom greater.
rapporteur. − mr president, at this very moment around the world at least one out of every five fish that is eaten has been taken out of the sea illegally. some of these fish perhaps is the result of fishing a little bit over the quota by basically legal operators that may stretch the rules – which of course is not acceptable – but a lot of that fish is also taken by large-scale operators that premeditate and organise their crimes in a very skilled manner, who deliberately hide between flags of convenience, hide behind shell companies registered in tax havens, operators that bribe and corrupt coastguards and customs officers, operators that steal fish from sensitive unprotected areas and put the billion-euro profit directly into their own pockets, organised crime that now operate with a minimal risk of detection and sanction all over the world, especially in developing countries’ waters and in the high seas in international waters. it is estimated that illegal fishing accounts for between 11 and 26 million tonnes of fish a year, making illegal fishing the world’s second largest fish producer in the world. the eu last year put in place its new iuu and control regulations and this was indeed a major step forward in the fight against iuu globally. one of the main elements was the new catch certification document that now has to accompany all the fish that enters the eu. this is important, since over 60% of all fish that is consumed in the eu today is imported. why is this the case? because we have overfished our own waters, consciously and with large contributions from subsidies, and this has led to a 40% decrease of catches since 1995. so our increasing dependency on fish from the outside, and with the eu fleet itself fishing all over the planet, our own responsibility to see to it that this fish is not illegally or irresponsibly caught is very evident. in my report i point to some of the dangers to the world that overfishing, and illegal fishing in particular, poses. they are not small. it threatens food security in developing countries, but also for future generations. it is one of the major causes of loss of biodiversity on the planet today, and the emptying of the world’s oceans of its living creatures is also degrading marine ecosystems so the oceans to a lesser extent are capable of doing their job as carbon sinks absorbing co2. we, the eu, have signed up to a lot of international obligations to eradicate hunger, halt the loss of biodiversity and fight against climate change – and fighting against the very concrete threats to the ocean that international illegal fishing represents is one of the most evident steps that the eu can take to try to achieve all of these objectives. in my report, i point to a number of concrete actions that the eu must take. we cannot wait for the un to move, we have to take unilateral actions in order to form alliances with the world’s largest fish markets. we need global certification schemes. but documents are not enough. we need global databases of fish dna, we need global electronic traceability systems and we need advanced police cooperation between states. we cannot forget that two thirds of the world’s oceans are beyond national jurisdiction, and that the control, management and conservation of these areas today is largely lacking. i am therefore very happy that the european parliament states the need to enlarge the regional fisheries organisations, both extend their geographical extension but also their mandate. they have to become more of management and conservation authorities, and less of exploitation clubs. i would like to express my thanks to all the shadows, of course, and a last comment is about the amendment about the introduction of a common european coastguard dealing with migrants, etc. i believe this is an issue far too politically sensitive to be included in my report, and therefore i recommend to delete those words from paragraphs 12 and 13.
rapporteur. − mr president, thank you so much to all the colleagues for your support. i am really proud that there is such a consensus about this report. i would like to thank the shadows, of course, for their excellent work and all the opinion-makers in the committee on development and the committee on the environment as well. i would like to say a few words on the european coastguard, which was raised a couple of times. i am very much in favour of more cooperation between different coastguards, and we also have the fisheries control agency in vigo, which i think should be reinforced in their work so that is out of the question, but i think that the european coastguard is going too far in this report. i am extremely proud that this parliament would endorse the notions that also are included in this report: the creation of a global body to fill the void that is actually right now very, very evident in this world and that is the governance of our world’s oceans and the international waters, and that we support the creation of a body, possibly under the auspices of the un, and that the rfmos should go from being exploitation clubs to actually management bodies of the world’s oceans. that is also something that i am very glad that this parliament supports. finally, this report also calls for the international oceans governance to be made a priority at the next world summit on sustainable development in rio – the rio+20 next year. as mrs rohde said, we need global solutions and i think we need global institutions, perhaps, to tackle this problem and, given the challenges of a shrinking planet, we need to think boldly and very urgently as well. so thank you, colleagues. thank you, mr president.
rapporteur. − mr president, we would like to remove the word ‘add’ from the beginning of paragraph 35, replacing that with the words ‘examine the possibility of adding’, so the sentence would read: ‘asks the commission to examine the possibility of adding the fao port state measures agreement, the un fish stocks agreement and fao compliance agreements to the list of instruments to be implemented for countries to be eligible for generalised systems of preferences plus’. this is because we do not want to pre-empt any vote in the inta committee on gsp+ and i hope that this chamber will accept that oral amendment.
in writing. − i support the functioning of the icc in the fight against impunity and the prosecution of the worst crimes against humanity. i also agree with the majority of conclusions laid down in the kreissl-dörfler report. however, i strongly disagree with the wording of §12. the competence for criminal law lies with the member states and not the eu and i strongly oppose any transfer of competences in criminal law matters. therefore i have abstained on the vote on the kreissl-dörfler report.
in writing. − i generally support this very important report on combating illegal fishing at the global level, but in the final vote i abstained because i strongly disagree with the wording of paragraph 12 concerning the creation of a european coastguard in order to boost common monitoring and inspection capacity and to effectively combat current or future dangers at sea such as terrorism and piracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the spring of 1848 brought a wave of democracy across europe, with human rights and demands for universal suffrage as its result. i hope the arab spring does not meet the same fate as the european spring of 1848, when the backlash came and kings and dictators took back power from the people. it is important that we raise this particular case, but it is also a failure of ours that we decided in 1999 to have a military force and a peace force. we've put all our energy into military force. if we had built up the peacekeeping force with quarterly reports, with judges, bureaucrats, police trainers, engineers and democracy engineers, then we would have been ready to help those countries when the arab spring came. it is high time we got our hands on the european peace force. that is where we can best help these countries now, so that they do not suffer the same failures that we did in 1848.
the committee on budgets has been asked to deliver an opinion. - madam president! - what is it? croatia's accession is a historic event, which i hope will be continued by the rest of the western balkans. the committee on budgets has made an assessment of the economic aspects of croatia's membership. this will mean a certain increase in the eu budget. this means that croatia must further strengthen its capacity to manage eu aid responsibly and effectively, not least at local and regional level for small businesses and so on. this isn't just about the central government. we are convinced that they can develop that capacity, just as they have developed the fight against corruption. we are also convinced that the increase in eu support for croatia is not really a cost but an investment in human and democratic development, in a better environment and in better economic growth which will benefit all of europe. so on a very broad political front, we welcome you to croatia!
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, welcome croatia and congratulate the european union. tomorrow when we have the opportunity to vote for the accession of croatia to the european union, it will be an expression and a manifestation of ideas and of the strength of european cooperation. i regret that mr farage is not here any more, because he has a problem with croatian membership. this membership is a message that european cooperation in the european union has values which are more attractive than his policies. it underlines that we in a time of crisis are able to proceed with one of the miraculous efforts of the european union – the enlargement which we have seen is building a stable democracy and open societies. with croatia we will be able to take another step; making europe better. croatia has become a better society and, through membership of the european union, croatian citizens will have the same opportunities as all other citizens of the european union. it will make europe better, but it will create better opportunities for all of us: croatians, swedes, austrians and all others, who are taking part in this fantastic project. so tomorrow we will be manifesting the strength of the european union in a time of economic crisis. i think that also underlines that there is room for optimism and there is also room for the message to other countries of the western balkans: when you reform, when you transform, when you develop, then we can all share peace, democracy and open societies.
the committee on employment and social affairs has tabled an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? the main message of this report is very important. parliamentary influence in the economic planning period must be strengthened. the year's process has shown that there is a great need for improved transparency and anchoring. with increased parliamentary transparency and more active parliamentary participation, the process would immediately gain greater democratic legitimacy. what i would like to highlight more specifically is the employment aspect. a better functioning labour market is a crucial key to success in both short-term crisis management and longer-term economic work. unfortunately, unemployment and job creation were too much overlooked in the planning period which ended this summer. there must be a change for the future. first, the social partners must be given a more active role in the formulation of analyses and recommendations. the parties have the clearest expertise in assessing what works and what doesn't. their right to act with complete independence in the wage formation is a matter of course. secondly, active labour market policy must be made a more important component of economic policy. greater investment in matching, vocational training and further training would be a very profitable measure in view of the current unemployment rates. thirdly, the strategic choices must be made more clearly, since knowledge is the key competitive factor for european companies. without a strong european knowledge development, jobs will move elsewhere. europe must compete on knowledge, not on low wages and bad conditions. i would like to thank mr pervenche berès for the excellent work he has done on this substantial report and i would like to conclude by thanking him for the floor.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is important to note that the european central bank has done a good job so far in the euro crisis. the recent rate cut has brought the policy stance back to a reasonable level and the bond-buying programme for the weaker euro area countries has been necessary and balanced. the ecb's move to a larger toolbox than the traditional one was justified in view of the circumstances. the crisis is not far behind, however. we are in a situation today where the whole of monetary cooperation is in danger. an unexpected disruption could upset the highly fragile balance of public finances and financial markets. i'm afraid a lehman brothers 2 is not an entirely unthinkable scenario. in this situation, a wide range of measures obviously need to be taken from the political side. at the same time, however, there can be no doubt that part of the solution must also be for the european central bank to take a more active role. it must be possible for the bank to become a lender of last resort in some way. this would create greater stability in exchange cooperation in both the short and long term. a more active approach is of course associated with increased risks on the bank's balance sheet. this must, however, be weighed against the extremely serious risk scenario of the decimation of the whole of the single currency. it is time for a number of players to rethink their approach to the ecb. the bank could do more than it can do at present. such measures could effectively reduce the current turbulence. moreover, it is not possible to wait and see, but action must be taken now. thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur and to the president of the ecb for being here.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank the commission, the polish presidency and, in particular, our own rapporteurs, francesca balzani and josé emanuel fernandes. after a long negotiation we reached an agreement, and our group will support that agreement because we have got through a lot of the priorities of this parliament: research and development, lifelong learning and the neighbourhood policy, especially palestine. i support the compromise, but the negotiation also raises a lot of concerns about the future and has aroused a lot of criticism within the s&d group. we find it worrying that the main part of the negotiations was devoted to resolving contradictions within the council, where a minority coalition of richer net-paying countries, including sweden, is playing an increasingly negative role. they seem prepared to block an offensive policy for the future. i am convinced that the eu budget must be strengthened in certain key areas if we are to make a positive contribution to recovery, growth and employment, particularly in the member states where the need is greatest. we also need to do better at implementing what has been promised in the budget. so we need to focus on execution, on payments and on at least paying our bills on time. with the extremely negative attitude of some member states towards the role of the eu, we risk ending up in the worst possible situation in the forthcoming negotiations on the long-term budget, with some member states guarding their agricultural policy and refusing to change it, while others refuse to increase the budget. the risk is that we will not be able to provide new resources for what is really needed: research and development, infrastructure, energy and climate change. given that the commission, a large majority of parliament and the majority of the member states agree on these needs, i hope that the polish presidency and the forthcoming danish presidency will be able to make the blocking minority realise its responsibility and adopt a more constructive position.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats abstained in the vote on this report. on the one hand, the general conclusions about the ecb's activities are reasonable and balanced. on the other hand, the report contains proposals which we cannot support in terms of setting up a european credit rating agency, appointing a common european finance minister and creating a common european finance department. it is not yet fully clear that the independence and credibility of a public rating agency could be ensured. we want to follow the further analysis and discussion of the matter before we take a final position. as far as the minister of finance and the treasury are concerned, we are open to further investigations, but are fundamentally very sceptical about this kind of very far-reaching fiscal integration.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. it provides a legal basis for the financing of activities which do not meet the official development assistance criteria set by the oecd development assistance committee and are therefore not covered by the development cooperation instrument regulation. but we do not support the financing of the ici+ instrument through money from the oda budget; eur 176 million for the period 2010-2013. this money will be used for activities that meet the criteria of the oecd development assistance committee.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the programming period is an important framework for stronger budgetary discipline in the eu member states. this report makes recommendations on how the existing regulatory framework should be updated and we share most of the proposals. on the other hand, we are against the recommendation to set up a 'european financial institution'. we also believe that the planning period should focus exclusively on factors of crucial importance to the stability of public finances.
in writing. − today i have voted in favour of the salvini report on the modernisation of customs, but i strongly disagree with the wording in paragraph 76, where the commission is encouraged to push forward the conclusion of the doha round.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − mr president, in the middle of the sahara, morocco has built a 2 700-kilometre-long wall which is the longest wall in the world after the great wall of china and is guarded by 120 000 soldiers and millions of landmines. it will also become the world’s longest conveyor belt, transporting phosphate resources out of the territory. morocco took the country of western sahara in 1975 using napalm and phosphorus bombs. that was an attack on a people abandoned by their spanish colonisers and was a contravention of international law. the fisheries agreement between the eu and morocco, including the waters of the western sahara, is in fact illegal. this has been established by the legal services of this house in a recent opinion, which overrules the previous legal opinion of the commission, which was written before it was possible to establish two things – firstly, if the eu was actually fishing in western sahara and, secondly, whether or not the financial payment was to the benefit of western sahara and if the fishing had the consent of the people of that territory. there are now two answers to those questions – 74% of the eu fleet capacity does operate in the waters of western sahara, and the people of this region have not been consulted on the matter. i have seen the answers to these questions, which morocco gave to the commission one year ago. they make it one hundred percent clear that morocco is not going to recognise there is even such a thing as western sahara. they do not even mention western sahara. this makes one other thing very clear – namely that morocco does not need this agreement. morocco has a domestic fleet that is bigger than that of spain. they have the national fisheries policy objective of tripling fisheries’ contribution to gnp, doubling domestic employment and increasing domestic consumption of fish. in 1999, morocco terminated the eu fisheries agreement for those very reasons, and because of the eu over-fishing that is now also taking place. it is extremely clear that morocco only wants to keep the fisheries agreement with the eu for one reason: to legitimise morocco’s illegal occupation of western sahara by making the eu an accomplice in this criminal act. it would be shameful to this house and to the entire european union if we, as a proponent of human rights and defenders of international justice and democracy, gave our consent to this shameful agreement.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i am very pleased with the commitment of the various eu institutions to this issue. thanks to the broad political and institutional efforts of all parties, we have been able to produce a good directive in a constructive way. i would like to thank all the parties involved for the work they have put in. under the european protection order, victims who have been granted protection in one eu member state will now be able to receive similar protection when they move to another member state. this is important. the protection covers, for example, victims of gender-based violence, harassment, abduction, persecution or attempted murder. i believe that this directive is a step closer to a safer europe for all citizens, but particularly for women who make up a large majority of the victims of crime. so i'm talking about men's violence against women. the directive is supposed to apply only to measures of protection taken in criminal proceedings, but, according to the different legal systems of the member states, a person may obtain similar types of protection also with other measures. it is important to say that the victim is guaranteed comparable protection. from a gender perspective, the european protection order is primarily intended to address the symptoms of gender-based violence. it is my view that the european protection order is one of several steps to address and combat the root cause of male violence against women. taking a step further now requires a comprehensive eu strategy on violence by men against women, a strategy which will make it easier to find concrete solutions to tackle these heinous crimes of gender-based violence.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking véronique mathieu for a job well done. we should be glad that third country nationals want to come to the european union and our member states to work. we need them because we have a shortage of labour in many areas and an ageing population. it is clear to me that we must make it as easy and as smooth as possible for these people to live and work in the eu. i therefore welcome this report on the creation of a single application procedure for thirdcountry nationals. anyone who comes here to work would also want to live here. we should be able to provide that with as little red tape as possible. it benefits everyone involved, and that's what we're doing with this. i welcome the fact that we are finally getting this directive into place. it will benefit many who are helping to maintain the well-being of our member states and to bring the eu to prosperity beyond these days of crisis in which we find ourselves.
madam president, i supported and was actively engaged in adopting the european protection order because it is truly a breakthrough; a concrete legislative measure to support and to protect victims of domestic violence. today we are sending a reassuring message to thousands of women who fear for their lives and flee for their lives across borders. they will enjoy an area of safety in 12 member states at least, and i do hope that we will move forward to 27 member states. i think this is also a very significant step forward in ensuring what the stockholm programme was calling for: a true area of freedom and security for our citizens where they can move freely without fearing for their lives.
madam president, mr hannan’s comments have nothing to do with the subject we are currently discussing. we are talking about protecting victims of crime in europe and that should be respected.
madam president, i also wholeheartedly supported the single application for residence and work as it is an important step forward to a common european migration policy that is very much needed and that i hope we will achieve within 2012 as scheduled. the single permit will facilitate the legal migration that is needed to sustain long-term european growth and our living standards. it also represents a strengthening of our tool to combat irregular migration. i think the three main achievements are a simplified procedure, procedure guarantees and clarity of the rights of migrants. i welcome in particular the possibility to have access to education and training and the possibility to export pensions.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. we consider it necessary to find a solution to the additional financing needs arising from the project and welcome the fact that the majority of the cost is now being borne from unused margins in both the agricultural and administrative fields. however, we would like to stress that additional funding for iter must not be at the expense of other existing research in the field of renewable energy sources. we therefore also consider it important at this stage to keep all the financing possibilities open for a solution of the remaining funds needed for the project. we therefore welcome the report's referral of this matter to the annual budgetary process, and if the project is to continue at its current level, we should not exclude either reallocation from other eu programmes or the use of any unused appropriations.
in writing. - extreme austerity is a reality in several member states. this proposal reduces the force of some of the austerity measures, which is a positive thing. but the extreme budget cuts are ordered by the european commission and the imf. that policy is causing deep and lasting damage to the economies of several member states. since i am opposed to that policy, i choose to abstain in this vote.
in writing. - we have chosen to support this targeted temporary measure to support the countries most affected by the deep financial crisis in which the eu finds itself. we would like to stress, however, that the problems of these countries do not consist solely of a lack of money. the long-term solution lies rather in strengthening their capacity to better absorb the european programme funds offered within existing frameworks. this temporary change in the eu co-financing rate should therefore not serve as a precedent for the future.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there is a lot of gloom to be seen in a debate on human rights, but there is also a lot of positivity to be seen, as catherine ashton pointed out. i would remind you that the sakharov prize is awarded to representatives of human rights in north africa. i would also like to remind you of the yemeni woman who spoke in oslo city hall. we who listened to her speech will probably not forget it either. i would also like to stress the urgency of having a representative who is specifically concerned with human rights issues and i would like to venture to say here in the plenary that it would be useful if each national parliament had a special minister for human rights. then there is something that has been mentioned earlier here and that i would like to emphasize, namely how unreasonable it is that we are so silent about what is happening in russia. i'm sure there are differences of opinion, but i feel we're being quiet. that an election in putin's russia should be monitored by 50,000 police officers, or if it were soldiers, and that the authorities throw hundreds of oppositionists in jail! putin should step back. he has not really made the progress he should have made in respect of human rights and freedoms. let us also be clear about our relations with the big russian bear!
the committee on budgets has been asked to deliver an opinion. - madam president! - what is it? the committee on budgets emphasizes a number of points in its opinion. firstly, we must learn from our historical mistakes and, in particular in north africa, create a more unified role for the european union, where we can avoid old european colonial powers primarily protecting their own national interests. secondly, it means that we need to focus more on civil society, on democracy and on governance in order to shape an open, democratic and non-corrupt social system. thirdly, we must find an effective and transparent support model in which we avoid creating instruments which overlap with those we already have. although we strongly support the very purpose of the new endowment for democracy, as the commissioner mentioned, we have some questions about its design. fourthly and finally, of course there will now be a strong focus on our neighbours to the south, but we must not jeopardise a reasonable balance in the support for our eastern neighbours who want to keep their eu perspective alive. it is important that we do not let them down on that point.
madam president, the crisis in europe should not overshadow the fact that we are the biggest integrated economy in the world. i believe that, in order to concretely support the aspiration for democracy in the mediterranean region, the eu should have the courage to truly open its markets. trade has been a driving force for progress and prosperity for us. trade goes hand in hand with institution building. we see the success story with the customs union in turkey. it has brought reforms towards the rule of law, towards better governance. let us start considering and putting seriously on the table the extension of the customs union, starting with egypt, tunisia and libya. let us engage in a dialogue with our counterparts in the region, in order to promote cooperation and regional integration among them and to remove the obstacles to free movement of people and goods. in a valid and civil society – i am sorry that not everybody has been saying it – of course we should involve women and the amazing, fantastic, untapped potential for entrepreneurship and for business that exists in these women who were the first on the front line, without patronising them with regard to their culture. europe has been an example for inclusive and sustainable development. it is a source of aspiration for millions of young people; we should not let them go. without a job, they will fall into despair. they will come to our borders. let us open our borders for free and fair trade, in order to give jobs to the young generation on the mediterranean shores.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i want to thank everyone who was involved in the negotiations. it's been a fun negotiation at times. it may seem strange that we have devoted so many hours to such a limited matter as fruit juices, but at the same time it has been a matter of quite large principles. should we maintain the higher eu standard, where one exists, over the standard enshrined in international agreements? if we are to have a functioning internal market, we must stop deceiving consumers. i have carried these juice packs with me throughout the negotiations and i will carry them with me to the bitter end. here, for example, is a juice box: nice, full of beautiful cranberries. the problem is that it's not the cranberries that are the main ingredient in the juice, it's the apples. but i don't see an apple on the packaging and i don't see an apple in the name. it was a french product. here is a product from sweden/finland. it's called raspberry/blueberry, and it's raspberry and blueberry on the package. hidden behind a giant blueberry is a tiny, tiny apple. this is misleading because this juice is mostly apple-based - it contains ten times as many apples as raspberries and blueberries. here's another fruit drink that's also sold on the european market. nice strawberries and passion fruit on the packaging, but guess which fruit dominates? that's right: apples. and here's another one that's sold in six other countries in europe. it says strawberries, but do you think there are strawberries in it? yes, a little, a little strawberries, but it's mostly apples, as usual, and the apple on this package is hidden behind a symbol so you can barely see the apple. this is misleading and deceitful and we're finally doing something about it. this is what i've been fighting for and i'm very happy that this is what the end result was. then there is another question about the labelling, that is, what is said about the product. at first there was some confusion about this whole no-added sugar thing, but in the end it was resolved with a good compromise, i think. in a short transitional period, consumers will learn this new thing that regular real juice must not contain added sugar and then we will stop doing so because it is against the logic of the internal market. normally, if you have a legal claim to something, you're not allowed to bring up that property. if we have a legal requirement that no sugar is added, then yes, they should not be on the packaging. but for a transitional period, i can accept that. we have also agreed with the commission that the words 'no added sugar' will not be used when the product contains sweeteners. so in the end, it was a result that we greens can support. i thank you for the many long negotiations, we have also had quite interesting discussions and finally we have a result that we can present to consumers. and then they can buy juice and know what they're getting. if you want to buy cheap fake juice, you know it's cheap fake juice you're buying, and if you want to buy real juice, you know it's what you're getting. that's the important thing.
blue-card question. – mr president, i agree with mr schnellhardt in a lot of the criticism he made on the agreement, some of which we lost in the committee vote. but as to the issue of which fruits are on the package and what the name of the fruit juice is, that is actually solved in this text; the name shall correspond to the dominant fruit, as in the ingredients list. so, if the highest concentration is apple, it will say apple, raspberry, blueberry in that order. so that is actually a change that we won; that point is actually changed.
mr president, i would like to thank you. tomorrow we're going to vote on a deal with the council that i think finally went okay. this is particularly the case with water quality requirements and clear ingredient list and labelling requirements to avoid misleading consumers. for a while i was worried that we would be departing from the principle we have in food labelling, namely that it is forbidden to claim that other products in the same product group contain substances which they do not contain. that will not be the case and i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur in particular for this. horst schnellhardt makes a very good point about the follow-up. i would like to make a request to the commission: it is indeed your task to follow up and ensure that this legislation which we are deciding on tomorrow is actually complied with on the market. i think you can be much tougher on the member states there.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am glad that we were a few of those who decided to improve the european commission's proposal to limit the use of phosphorus compounds in detergents, so that machine-dish detergents are also covered. we got through it, despite everyone who thought otherwise. some countries, including my own, have already gone ahead and introduced what is effectively a ban on phosphates in detergents and dishwashing detergents. it's working perfectly. now the rest of the eu is following suit, and it is understandable that important contributions to reducing over-fertilisation in, for example, the baltic sea. but other waters and environments in the eu will also benefit from this legislation, as will industry, which will be subject to a common set of rules instead of 27 different ones. our group would have preferred even lower levels and a faster entry into force, but we regard the compromise we have agreed with the council as a great success. this legislation is a simple and effective contribution to reducing over-fertilisation. but the main contributor to the over-fertilization, which has already been mentioned here tonight, is of course agriculture. we definitely need to do more work there. there are ways to reduce emissions, including from agriculture. in conclusion, i would of course like to thank everyone involved, not least the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur, for a very good cooperation.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the baltic sea is grateful for this decision - it is europe's most sensitive sea. it is precisely the lack of phosphorus that inhibits algal growth, and added phosphorus in the baltic sea is particularly harmful, more harmful than in other seas. i thank bill newton dunn and the other shadow rapporteurs. without you, we would never have been able to convince the council that we needed to take a decision to ban machine-disc agents as well. as many say, the biggest problem is manure and unconnected sewage, sewage that is not connected to a working sewage treatment plant. but this is a significant contribution and we have also agreed that the commission will review the overall use of phosphate. that's very good. i would have liked to see this introduced a little earlier, but the most important thing is that it is adopted by the whole industry. i am convinced that they will reschedule far earlier than the date we have set here. in my own country we have already banned both dishwasher detergent and detergent. i would like to say that this shows that we should have a little flexibility in the internal market. the fact that a country can take the lead and take action has been very important in this debate. it is thanks to this that we have been able to show that phosphates are not expensive to phase out. on the contrary, it is very profitable and once people have seen that it works in practice, it is much easier for the whole of europe to follow suit. i also think it is good that countries which want to introduce bans earlier than the dates set by law have the opportunity to do so. then there's the problem of reviewing the options. here, we refer to the reach to carry it out. but, commissioner, if reach has not been used once to ban a chemical, will you use this? now that we've identified an alternative that is and should be banned, will you use reach to actually ban it? so far, reach has only been used to adjust previous bans, not to introduce any new ones. i would like to have an answer to that and i look forward to the evaluation of the use of phosphate. i am also looking forward to the initiative to ban industrial applications.
mr president, i think the commissioner misunderstood what i said. what i said was: i do not think that reach is the best way to evaluate the alternatives. i was not speaking about phosphates; i was talking about the alternatives. it says in the recital that it should be used to evaluate the alternatives. i question the validity of reach to do so, because so far we have not restricted one single substance using the reach system. so that was my question: if it is really appropriate and if it will work.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, prime minister, i am just an ordinary member from a country outside the eurozone, but i am a true friend of poland, europe and the euro. my congratulations to mr daul. before congratulating you, mr schulz, i will wait a bit. herr talman! donald tusk – när du i egenskap av polsk premiärminister och rådets tjänstgörande ordförande kom till europaparlamentet för sex månader sedan kände vi att du förde med dig en mer positiv stämning kring eu. det var som om ett fönster öppnades. det blev lättare att tala väl om europa. du har inte blandat inte in inrikespolitiken i ditt sätt att sköta det polska ordförandeskapet. för det vill vi från alde-gruppens sida tacka dig och alla dina medarbetare, inte minst vår vän mikolaj dowgielewicz som sitter vid din sida. stort tack! polen har hållit i ordförandeklubban under ett mycket utmanande och krävande halvår. europa kämpar fortfarande mot finanskrisens efterdyningar. uppgiften att hålla samman eu under denna period har inte varit lätt. polen har fullgjort sitt uppdrag på ett föredömligt sätt. att hålla samman europa de senaste dagarna har varit mycket svårt. toppmötet förra veckan gav flera goda resultat, men inte fullt ut vad vi hade hoppats på. när ett land, förhoppningsvis bara ett, sätter sig på tvären och kräver status quo är det glädjande att andra länder vill och kan gå framåt, men det innebär samtidigt att vi nu riskerar att få ett europa som kommer att gå på två olika växlar. klyftan mellan länderna inom europluspakten och det utökade eurosamarbetet och de länder som sitter på åskådarläktaren riskerar att öka ytterligare. det gäller många länder, även mitt eget land. jag hoppas, herr talman, och här vänder jag mig också till min kollega andrew duff, att liberalerna kan övertyga david cameron och de motsträviga kollegerna i london att nationalism och isolering inte är vägen framåt. polen har i detta läge visat ett större politiskt mod och en starkare lojalitet med europasamarbetet. alde välkomnar detta. andra länder, som mitt eget land sverige, har något att lära av er. (applåder) let me conclude by saying to the prime minister that we should not forget that it was only 30 years ago – as you, mr president, commented on monday – that poland introduced martial law, yet today poland is one of the leading countries in a united europe. i – and we in the liberal group – salute you, prime minister tusk.
mr president, i welcome the adoption of a clear definition that distinguishes fruit juice from nectar, as finally the present confusion for consumers is being removed. it is very important for consumers to know if there is added sugar or not and how much real fruit exists in the juices they buy. how many times has it happened to you that you buy fruit juice and then discover that the picture on the package or the name on the package does not really correspond to the quantity of orange, berry or apple juice that you thought was there; you feel cheated. this directive, therefore, is a very important step forward in our fight against misleading information. it will benefit consumers by giving correct, clear and reliable information. our task is not to decide for consumers from the top down what they are supposed to eat or drink. our task is to facilitate free choices by providing correct information. this is very much in line with the fight we had over the food labelling directive.
in writing. − i would like to underline that by voting in favour of this report, i by no means accept the reference to the definition of “terrorism” as it is formulated in the framework decision 2002/475/jha on combating terrorism. i wish to state clearly that i reject such a broad definition which could virtually include every act that has some element of organisation or planning and that legitimately raises the question whether this instrument has a built-in ‘function creep’ in order not only to combat terrorism but to extend the definition in such a manner as to cover most public order situations and more common criminal acts as they apply under national law. like other legislation of this nature (in the us for instance), we must be very careful to not leave any room for draconian measures to enter through the backdoor to control political dissent, demonstrations, protests, and we must be very vigilant that it will not be used to curb the freedom of expression.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is ten years since the eu adopted its first transparency regulation. today, when citizens' trust in the eu and in politics is badly damaged, it is more important than ever that we open up as much as possible. michael cashman's proposal is a good one. it contains a number of important improvements, such as that each document, each document must be assessed individually and not in bulk, that transparency should be the main line/principle and confidentiality the exception and that the protection of personal data should never be used as an excuse to deny access to documents. however, i do see problems with the security classification proposed in the proposal. it can be used as a back door to overclassify documents. i therefore want to go further than most of the other speakers. i am doing this because we have reached this stage of transparency in a number of member states. we have a very good system of transparency, and it strengthens democracy. i have a question for you who don't want to take a single step down the road. what are you afraid of?
madam president, in times when there is sometimes the feeling that europe is complex and far away, it is even more important for us to give a clear commitment on transparency and openness. the message we send to the people of europe is that we have nothing to hide that concerns them and their lives. in fact, we encourage them to be involved in what we are doing. we want them not only to follow but also to participate in what we are doing; not only to accept the final result of our deliberations but also, prior to that, to take part in the decision-making. on our draft proposals, they can influence us by their views. we encourage public debate on our work. we really care that they get a picture and that they have a chance to understand, if they so wish, what is going on in the strasbourg and brussels buildings. they decide what is relevant for them. they pick and choose. most importantly, they have the right to check and to hold us accountable for what we do and say when we represent them on their behalf. bridging the democratic gap with our citizens has to be done in a responsible way. privacy, personal data, personal integrity should not be put at risk by disclosing informal information. in sweden we have a strong tradition of access to documents, but it is also normal to have some information that is classified. a climate of confidence is necessary to achieve complex negotiation like trialogues. widely displaying pieces of information is not openness. openness does not mean wikileaks.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this report deals with the major needs in the transport sector. why then do we do nothing for them in a situation where we could combine longterm investment with the reduction of high unemployment? the ten-t should be launched rapidly to link transport systems, improve freight transport and significantly reduce climate emissions. we should also dare to consider the idea of not just reducing co2 emissions by 20% in 20 years but going a little further. at the same time, there is a need for more order in this sector, for more fair competition in an area where social dumping has serious consequences in the form of predation on those who work there and at the same time leads to accidents and poor safety, to a lower level of safety. we do not need more liberalism in this sector, but we need more long-term thinking, more investment, more interconnection and more security. we also need decent conditions, which are not only for the benefit of those who work in the sector, but for all of us who are on the road and railways.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the proposal we are discussing today is about how to strengthen the trust between our member states in the area of justice. part of this is about the conditions of those who are deprived of their liberty, conditions which unfortunately are, in their own way, appalling. the european court of justice has repeatedly pointed to poor prison conditions and unreasonably long detention periods. now we must ensure that the basic human rights of prisoners are respected and that prison conditions are maintained to a reasonable standard. we also need to address the problem of abuse of pre-trial detention. the eu member states are now in the process of building up a comprehensive judicial cooperation. it is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judges and judicial decisions. but for it to work, trust between the member states is needed. ensuring the fundamental rights of prisoners must therefore be a high priority.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i thank the rapporteur and i thank you, commissioner. you are an important watchdog in a europe which, in the wake of the economic crisis, has seen too many state interventions to cope with emergencies. we know that the banking and car sectors have been in a worrying situation, but temporary measures must be temporary, so that aid does not distort competition. the commission certainly has a vital role to play in balancing interests in these dark times. we need to develop more methods of strengthening consumer rights, and one such method is the group case. by joining together in a joint action, consumers are empowered and can assert their rights more easily than if they were to stand alone. europe needs a modern legal system to take advantage of the rights of our ordinary consumers, but not an american system. i think that derk jan eppink should reconsider. it is sad that the eu can never be successful, and this unfortunately also applies to the european parliament.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report. but i want to make the following important points: 1) i reject the us and nato war in afghanistan. peace can only be achieved if negotiations are conducted with the taliban and other groups with the aim of conducting genuine democratic elections and giving the afghan people full national self-determination. any eu assistance to the afghan government's civilian development projects must therefore be limited and strictly controlled. the objective should be to develop a successful anti-corruption effort so that a future genuinely democratically elected and well-functioning government can be entrusted with a greater share of the assistance. they should be given priority in the development of assistance at the present time.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we are sceptical about the proposed classification of documents. the classification used by the institutions does not directly affect public access to documents. the mere fact that a document is classified in a certain way does not automatically exclude it from the scope of the regulation. we therefore believe that classification should be regulated by other legislation. we are also concerned that the system may lead to overclassification (more documents being classified than necessary) and thus to less transparency.
