on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear colleagues, as you all know, on 17 december there have been another early elections in serbia, in national and also in the capital of belgrade, and other municipalities. this also we know: we are plagued by irregularities, like phantom voters, like pressure on voters, as well as decisive involvement of the president and the ruling party’s systemic advantage, and which undermined the electoral process. when international election observers, like from the european parliament and like myself, also raised this issue, the government of serbia and the president himself attacked these international observers. so, therefore, i am happy that a majority of the groups and of this house has the plan now and agreed to have a debate during this plenary. i’m also looking forward that we will have a resolution which we also support as the s&d group.
in the name of the s&d faction. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. f-gases are used in a wide variety of everyday products such as refrigerators, air conditioners, heat pumps, asthma sprays, fire extinguishers to name a few. in the construction industry and in the switching systems of our electricity supply systems, refrigerants also play an important role. these synthetic refrigerants, called f-gases, have an alarmingly high greenhouse potential, which is up to 25,000 times more harmful to the climate than co2. so these substances need to be drastically reduced and replaced with natural refrigerants if we are to fight climate change seriously. the ozone regulation is also closely linked to the f-gas dossier. in the past, we have seen that with clear, binding regulations, excellent results can be achieved, especially with regard to ozone. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the matter. in my role as shadow rapporteur on the revision of the f-gas regulation, i am therefore pleased to report today that we have successfully tackled this important paradigm shift. i would like to thank all the colleagues for the really good and constructive cooperation, and in particular the rapporteur, mr bas eickhout. both production and consumption are gradually reduced following a strict schedule with decreasing quota allocations. as regards the allocation of consumption quotas, they will be completely eliminated by 2050. the text here for the vote is an important contribution to climate protection and the achievement of the objectives of the paris agreement. the revised regulation also strengthens the leading role of european companies in global markets for climate-friendly technologies and makes us independent of f-gases produced mainly in the usa and asia. we are strengthening the industrial position of europe and already securing the jobs of tomorrow. it is estimated that around 80% of f-gas emissions in 2050 will come from stationary and mobile refrigeration and air conditioning systems. these emissions are avoidable because they can and will be replaced by climate-friendly natural refrigerants. the stricter regulation of the f-gas regulation and the ozone regulation, which is also being voted on, will save a total of 500 million tonnes of co2 by 2050. a truly great success!
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. i would like to thank mr pieper for this report. it is an indispensable contribution to the handling of the catargate scandal. i sometimes get the impression that any demand for more control over the financing of ngos or the influence of third countries is immediately seen as an attack on civil society. we all know that ngos play an important role, whether it's in upholding the rule of law, human rights or democracy. we also support them here with our own budget. last year it was almost 4 billion euros. and it is our responsibility to ensure that all use of eu tax money is transparent and effective. this must apply to everyone, including ngos. those ngos that are supported by tax money must also disclose their goals, their activities, their donors, so that we know who we are dealing with and what we are financing with. and those who do not, must not take a sip from the eu pot. a uniform definition is also very important. a colleague friend said otherwise it's the chamber of commerce or the caritas, and that's where the separation is made. and everyone must contribute to tackling and preventing corruption scandals in the future. we have stricter rules in parliament, even if those rules are still too little for you, mr friend. but now it's time for ngos to follow suit.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. the way the greek authorities deal with the predator abuse scandal will show whether or not greece is moving towards autocracy. and for over a year now, we know that journalists, lawyers and politicians like our former colleague nikos androulakis have been systematically listened to. - from who? to date, there has been no satisfactory explanation from the greek authorities on the contracting authorities and their background. two years ago, the journalist giorgos karaivaz, who covered corruption and crime, was murdered. independent journalists are being threatened with slapp lawsuits. reporters without borders lists greece at 107th place in the press freedom index of 180 possible lowest ranking of all eu member states. the rule of law index shows that no country in the european union has experienced major setbacks in the rule of law over the past five years. surprising? i would like to thank the commissioner for saying that action is necessary, and that is the message to the greek prime minister mitsotakis: not to laughed and lament, but to clarify and act!
in the name of the s&d faction. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. it has been exactly one month since the elections in serbia. and as my rapporteur and the commissioner have already said, there is a list of irregularities that have occurred in these serbian elections: phantom voters, voter buying, unilateral media coverage and, and, and is the list of accusations that i think must be fully clarified. transparency is what's needed here. and transparency, which the government must ensure. but prime minister brnabić and president vučić are doing the opposite. instead of making transparency available, they criticize international election observers, including myself, with the sharpest and most outrageous of all. this is not only to be rejected, but it shows very clearly that the criticism expressed in the reports is completely in the dark. but we cannot take such an action as the european union. we must ensure that the rule of law and all transparent processes are respected, including in serbia.
madam president, (start of speech off mic) ... 20 million people, almost half of sudan’s population, are affected by life-threatening food insecurity. after nine months, the violent conflict claimed around 12 000 lives and displaced 5.8 million people. already before the outbreak of the conflict, sudan was facing a humanitarian crisis due to extreme weather shocks, social and political unrest and rising food prices that continued to drive poverty, hunger and displacement. many thanks to the european commission for mobilising eur 126.4 million in humanitarian aid for the people of sudan in 2023. in view of the ongoing emergency situation, the eu and the member states must increase emergency funding for the humanitarian aid and the refugee camps, and increase aid throughout west darfur and neighbouring countries. the eu has to impose sanctions on those responsible for serious human rights violations. we also have to call on the united nations security council to sanction violations of the un arms embargo on darfur, and to expand it throughout the country. we finally must ensure that the peace agreement can be reached, so that innocent civilians in sudan are able to live in freedom, peace and security.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. the debate on new genetic engineering is not about yes or no. i think there are three main aspects of consumer and health protection. firstly, the approval process requires a risk assessment in advance. we must not, as a policy, abandon this instrument of balancing risks to man, animals and nature. the commission has already decided to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to the same extent as those of the member states. secondly, it is necessary to have a clear label in order to give consumers the freedom to choose. it is a folly that there are applications to prohibit all labelling. this is a massive cut in consumer information. and thirdly, no new genetic engineering in bio-products, neither through deliberately tolerated contamination nor through decisions made by the public based on subsequent evaluations.
the commissioner is not here to be seen as a threat to the peace process. after more than 20 years, revising and updating the proposed legislation on the use of genetic engineering is more than reasonable and correct. the commission has not yet taken any further steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are fully used. and especially for such a scientific debate that we actually have to have here, not driven by populist propaganda, it would actually be important that we had a little more time here. we in austria, in particular, are living in and committed to the freedom of genetic engineering, and this must be possible with this bill in the future. furthermore, one point that we see somewhat critical of is the patentability of seeds. we believe that the details of this matter have not been fully clarified and that we must continue to enable our small seed producers to produce locally. in view of these few uncertain points, it is important to me that we continue to accept and continue to enable the austrian path of genetic freedom.
mrs schinas, vice-president of the commission. - (fr) mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his report on the situation in ukraine. all of that is acting against russia and its war. but there is also the so-called hybrid war, disinformation and therefore this parliament has adopted the cybersecurity strategy, which makes the european union stronger in the face of disinformation and foreign interference - particularly russian - in the electoral processes, which are of great importance to us in terms of democratic quality in the european union, as well as criminal measures for those who violate the restrictions imposed on russia and its agents. it is therefore really amazing, gentlemen of the popular party, to see you divert attention once again to this sensitive, important matter, to slander the spanish government on account of a judicial investigation into the process, which took place while you were in the government. they didn't do anything to prevent it or to prevent it. and so far, they have not heard a single proposal to prevent it from happening again. so let us talk about russia, its war against ukraine and its hybrid war against democracy, its values and democratic participation and its integrity, which is what we really care about.
madam president, we are actually going to talk about russia. the deputy, who is identified as a collaborator of the russian fsb, has for years supported the environment and eta terrorists. he also constantly supported catalan secessionists who committed crimes before and after 2017. the case of the russian interference in catalonia requires special attention, because the judicial investigation, fortunately, is progressing. we can point out that russia carried out combined interventions in catalonia over a decade, mixing gru field agents and direct access to the regional government, including the fugitive puigdemont, as well as advice and a disinformation strategy through russia today and sputnik, among other digital platforms, which managed to pass information to media outlets that were unaware of this secret roadmap. they offered soldiers and money to set up a kind of autocratic tax haven, as one of the people involved has publicly acknowledged. the aim was to destabilize the union by destroying the rule of law in spain. that is why it is so important that the council and the commission understand the dangerous agenda of the spanish government, yes, by framing an amnesty law and a gigantic operation of impunity and disregard for judicial independence, including on crimes of corruption, embezzlement, terrorism and cooperation with russian interference. to tolerate such a thing would mean the victory of the most damaging populism in the union. open the corner to defend our rule of law, which is yours, please.
the commissioner is the president. we poles, and our baltics neighbors, and not only our neighbors in the northeast, can have bitter satisfaction because we've been talking about these russian interventions, including the agency, for years. we are aware that this is not just a political group or the baltic countries, where there are a few citizens of lithuania, latvia, estonia who are of russian descent and elected by the russian minority in every sitting of parliament. i remember, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the first term of the european parliament, in poland and in the new union when the report on nordstream was voted on. one of the mps submitted a hundred amendments and it was a british mp. it was the parliamentary group of the alde and the liberal group that was later elected vice-president of parliament. this shows the scale of interference in very different political groups and very different countries, including those that are not already in the european union. that shows the scale of the problem.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. europe has a parliament for the first time in its history since 1979 and it is a parliament in which the great european continent, the european union, is represented. but it is speaking for the continent by those who are democratically legitimized. it's the most exciting political arena in the world, and it's a target for espionage and hybrid warfare, as experts call it. and we're discussing today the case of a colleague who was apparently contaminated by russian intelligence activities. we must be aware that there are these dangers. we need to protect ourselves. we must protect democracy by protecting parliamentarism. we must also have a special committee against foreign influence in the next election period or set up a standing committee against it. we need members of parliament who are not corrupt and not blackmailed. we need members of parliament with character. and we must be aware that in addition to those who can be influenced and against whom there are attempts to influence, and we all know that there are also ideological persuaders who sing the song of the autocrats in this world, who want to make a very unrelenting appeal against the violent people in this world. they call themselves communists, even in my home country of austria. they are right-wing, partly right-wing extremists, and they are also recording this. and there are democratic elections. the vast majority of citizens can resist the song of autocrats and violent people.
- madam president, please. we have seen for years in the member states how various parties in europe have been gradually drawn into the sphere of influence of vladimir putin, and the consequences are now being seen here in the house. austria has also contributed to this. in 2016, two years after the invasion of crimea, the fpö signed another friendship agreement with putin's party, "a russia", a deal they don't even want to disclose now. meanwhile, vienna is playing the role of a russian spy outpost. christoph grosev said he suspects more russian agents, spies and accomplices in the city than there are police. that's quite remarkable, if you're an expert on that. if we are to expel the spirit of putin from this house, we must start with the responsibility of the member states, or we will be back there after the next election and have even more russian trojan horses sitting here in the house. it should be in our best interests to prevent this.
