member of the commission. – madam president, first, thank you for this constructive debate and the different contributions. we may have just concluded this file, but we should keep discussing how the eu can best contribute to efficient market structures, especially as we set up the consolidated tapes. we can only ask you to keep monitoring developments on all aspects around the competitiveness and stability of europe's securities markets. together, we can make sure that the review, in a couple of years, of the design of the consolidated tape for equity will lead to even more ambition in terms of pre-trade information, as proposed in the econ report. finally, market participants and investors will get access to consolidated data on price and volumes. this will make eu capital markets more visible towards eu investors and international investors. in turn, eu listed companies will be more attractive towards investors and the eu markets will become more efficient. as we debate how to make the eu economy more competitive, it's clear that these measures will make a real contribution.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank all the colleagues for their remarks, and i would also like to thank all the shadows for their work, which was not easy, if you remember, and for their cooperation throughout the negotiations on this important file, and also for building a compromise which i believe is good for europe. let me say again that the mifid review comes at a critical time for the union, and the consolidated tape will be a key element of our efforts to ensure that private investment is channelled into the economy efficiently. we also hope we will have an attractive ecosystem for new listings and a more efficient trading landscape. i expect it will boost investment activity, making the union's markets easier to navigate and more attractive, including for small investors. tomorrow's vote marks the beginning of the work for the implementation of the regulation. esma has already announced that by the end of this year, it will launch the public tender for the first consolidated tape for bonds, which will become operational as of 2025, and the commission – as commissioner nicolas schmit said – has begun already its work to make the reference data for derivatives more transparent and meaningful. so the work at level two will then continue for the next couple of years. the cmu for quite some time has been a key political project aimed at reducing dependence on bank funding and overcoming national differences, but it was a project that too often lacked the political will and momentum to drive the vision of a robust and integrated capital market union forward. but it was not the case in this review where, thanks to the strong support of all political groups in parliament and of the commission, we were able to secure an agreement that is a great success for the parliament. this house has shown once more that we continue to show the ambition to push towards the creation of a truly single capital market union for the benefit of all european citizens. given the positive outcome and the strong endorsement at the econ committee level, there were only two abstentions. there was no negative vote and nobody was against. i would like to invite all the colleagues to vote in favour of the interinstitutional agreement tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the need for an eu and international response to the houthi attacks in the red sea and for continued support to the yemeni peace process (2024/2519(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, we are now here to discuss the repeated and unacceptable houthi attacks on commercial ships in the red sea, which violate international law, threaten maritime security and peace in the region, and disrupt global trade. until today, 28 attacks were carried out by the houthis since mid-november. the houthis are presenting their repeated attacks as a support to the palestinian people, and they have launched some missiles toward israel. the houthis, together with hezbollah and some iraqi and syrian militias, are aligned with hamas. the eu has continuously condemned those acts and underlined that they must stop, notably through the eu spokesperson’s statements of 5 and 13 december, and through our latest eu 27 statement of 12 january. the eu also called for the immediate release of the galaxy leader vessel and its 25-member crew, illegally seized on 19 november. eu services are also following closely the joint military response of the uk and us, members of the prosperity guardian operation, to repeated houthi attacks against maritime vessels. the us and uk have carried out joint strikes on 11 and 12 january on over 60 targets at 16 sites in yemen, with the support of australia, bahrain, canada and the netherlands, as a response to repeated and escalating houthi attacks in the red sea, notably the complex attack of 9 january, following repeated messages from the international community. the eu continues actively engaging and coordinating with partners in all diplomatic fora to counter the houthi threats to commercial vessels and find effective solutions. the high representative, on behalf of the eu and its member states issued a joint statement, published last friday, welcoming the 10 january un security council resolution 2722. the un security resolution recognises that states are entitled to defend themselves against the attack against their vessels in perfect contradiction, by the way, of international law. the eu navfor operation atalanta shares maritime awareness with the multi-nation operation prosperity guardian from its operations in the red sea and the gulf of aden. further options will be discussed at the level of the european council concerning the eu maritime response. however, it is unlikely that the houthis will be deterred immediately, given the international visibility they have enjoyed with these actions. houthi leaders have already indicated they will continue their attacks as long as the situation in gaza remains. they have already resumed attacks, with a missile fired towards us forces on 14 january. the last point of concern is the impact these developments in the red sea can have on peace efforts in yemen, which had reached a new positive phase on 23 december with the un’s takeover of the peace process following a year of saudi-houthi backchannel talks.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, mr commissioner, so following the israeli attack on gaza, yemen has indeed been attacking ships, the houthi groups, and denying freedom of navigation in the red sea. this has an impact on world trade. it also has an impact on factories in belgium. it is, of course, remarkable, first of all, that those that are now calling for action against yemen are the same ones that never called for action against israel, protecting trade routes for some in this chamber is clearly more important than protecting the lives of palestinians. now, we need to be clear, because those colleagues that say we need action seem to forget that there’s already been action. last week, the united states, with a number of european countries, bombed yemen, bombed cities in yemen. this was not the first time. barack obama bombed yemen. donald trump bombed yemen. joe biden now bombed yemen. saudi arabia bombed yemen for years. and none of these interventions brought peace or security to the region. rather, on the contrary, as these attacks were not covered by the security council resolution, which spoke about protecting vessels, not about bombing yemen, this might actually deteriorate the image of europe and the west in the world further. what we need is now a critical assessment of this policy and clearly look at the consequences and alternatives. and, of course, we need a ceasefire in palestine as soon as possible.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. a year or five ago i stood here as a proud rapporteur for the creation of the european labour authority (ela). this is a historic step for the european union to ensure that our common internal market is not only free but also fair. to ensure that the free movement of persons is not only free but also fair. the european union must not allow for pretended independence, social dumping or unfair competition on the labour market. there must be no room for exploitation of people through scandalous working or living conditions, no race to the bottom when it comes to working conditions. no room, in short, for inhuman situations. yet, unfortunately, we still see too much of that. five years ago, as a european parliament, we tried to strengthen the powers of the european labour authority as much as possible, with forces united from left to right, against the protests of some member states. the commission has therefore decided to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the implementation of the ela. the most important thing, and i would like to emphasize this here, is that ela is given more powers to carry out its tasks, including with regard to workers from outside europe. we see more and more selfemployed people from third countries active on the european labour market, and this leads to major problems. it is a crossborder challenge that must also be addressed crossborder through ela. a stronger authority is absolutely necessary to tackle these and other abuses on the european labour market. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights.
- madam speaker, please. where there's money to be made, there's also criminals. crime has become a staple of the european labour market. this is a reality. in europe, criminal actors run companies that not only enforce the rules, they crush them completely and trample on the scales. but now we need a functioning coordination throughout europe to create order and clarity in our workplaces. continuing as usual is not, and cannot be, an option. we must stop the exploitation of people, create well-functioning labour markets and thus also break the recruitment of new gangs. the european labour authority (ela) plays an incredibly important role in uniting the member states in the fight against work-life crime. the involvement of the trade unions in this work is fundamental, if not crucial. they must have the support and mandate to carry out checks and information that could lead to prosecution. the review must therefore take into account the different nature of national inspection systems and the fact that they are also responsible for inspections in certain member states, as the parliament's resolution points out. we will use every tool, authority and agency to fight crime. criminals should not be allowed to take a crown from our growth and our well-being.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. enough of the sneaky legislation, the mocking of the eu treaties. employment policy is the exclusive competence of the national governments. so, my dear colleagues, please read the treaties. i would remind you that the ela, the european labour authority, is limited to the union acts referred to in the founding regulation. the extension of the mandate of the ela to third-country workers and the investigation of infringements in the ela's own view cannot be supported under the law. this is in complete contradiction with the principles of legal certainty. i also object to the fact that social partners can run to ela at any time to initiate cross-border investigations. no, fellas, this is not good. they must first have the remedy required by law, i.e. national law. it's not too late to remember. and to act in the spirit of the treaties. and he stopped commanding all of this.
the commissioner, president, colleagues, has made a great contribution to the mobility of workers. 10 million eu citizens work in another member state and as many non-eu citizens work in the eu. this provides opportunities, but it must not be exempt from abuse and social dumping. the european labour authority (ela) was therefore set up to facilitate the functioning of labour markets, to support social security systems and to ensure fair competition in the internal market. in addition, the commission has established that the ela's activities in the field of transport are not limited to the following: a total of 1762 infringements were identified, but ela's activities are limited by the voluntary nature of cooperation and the participation of member states. we therefore call for a thorough review and extension of the ela mandate so that the authority can itself investigate alleged infringements and organise inspections. we therefore call for more national labour and social security inspections and for an increase in ela resources. we call for greater involvement of the social partners and for greater cooperation between member states and, as many colleagues have already pointed out, for extending the application to non-eu nationals. the extension of the ela mandate must lead to a more social europe that guarantees workers' rights and effectively tackles social fraud, abuse and dumping.
mr president, there is nothing more powerful than an idea which has come to pass, as victor hugo said. today, this idea is embodied in the farming and popular revolt that is shaking europe. in 2023, already in holland, farmers overthrew the government of your friend mark rutte, exposing his treason. in germany, after months of unrelenting protests, farmers have pushed back olaf scholz, also a spokesman for your sinister agricultural policy. in france, the revolt is raging and organizing throughout the country. this rebellion, born in our countryside, is a reaction to your supposed green policy which, under the guise of ecology, destroys our agriculture, undermines our sovereignty and threatens the quality of food in our plates. the farmers, the pillars of our nations, are now at the forefront of defending our vital interests. their fight is ours. the time for the rural revolution has come and you know it. she's unstoppable. she's not going to stop. our support for farmers is total.
mr president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, after 13 years of waiting, romania's effective accession to the schengen area will begin in march this year. the process will start first with air and sea routes and consular mechanisms. practically, starting in march, we'll be able to fly without having our id checked. goods will be able to move by sea without additional filters and romania is due to issue schengen visas. italy, austria and greece also entered in two stages. as part of the decision-making process of the free movement area, romania thus enters an irreversible process of accession to the schengen area. i call on the european partners to continue their joint efforts to ensure that romania's full accession to the schengen area is achieved as agreed as soon as possible. i welcome the efforts made by prime minister marcel ciolacu to achieve this objective and thank my fellow pes activists romania for all they have done in recent years to convince member states that romania deserves to be part of schengen.
that concludes the item.
now i’ve got good news: we’ve come to the end of our agenda today. the next session will take place tomorrow at 9.00. the agenda for tomorrow is published and available.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for its approval tomorrow early afternoon.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the presentation of the programme of activities of the belgian presidency (2023/2959(rsp)). on 1 january, we welcomed belgium to the helm of the council of the european union, and today it is a pleasure to have with us prime minister alexander de croo. prime minister, welcome to the european parliament. the belgian presidency will be the one that closes off this legislature, and as we head into the final busy months, the european parliament is ready to deliver on what our citizens expect from our european union. since the last european parliament elections we have adopted ground-breaking laws to make europe fairer, more competitive and fit for the digital age. we have overcome pandemics, we have addressed our climate obligations and we have come together in the face of russian aggression in ukraine. we have given a real european perspective to ukraine and to the western balkans, we have passed legislation that makes our people safer, more equal, more prosperous, and our children better able to fulfil their potential. so we are really living up to the promise of europe. but there is still much work to do. the next months under the belgian presidency will be critical, particularly on migration. we are on the cusp of a historic agreement, and i know belgium’s commitment to getting this over the line. just a few weeks ago, our conference of presidents met you, dear alexander, together with members of the belgian government. we held a forward-looking pro-european exchange. it is in that same pragmatic spirit that the european parliament will continue to work with the belgian presidency. dear prime minister, your country’s presidency comes at a crucial time in european history. we will rely on the famous belgian ability to find compromise on difficult topics and we are confident that we will find a way forward that citizens will recognise before the elections in june. prime minister de croo, the floor is yours. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, dear roberta, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, first of all, i would like to express my gratitude to the european parliament for all the work that has been done over the past years, but also express my expectation to do quite some work in the last months. we still have work to do and we can work together with you in the most fruitful way possible. ladies and gentlemen, 2024 will be a crucial year. a lot is at stake for europe. a lot is at stake for the west. a year where our democracies and our liberties will be put to the test, not only with the election for this house, but equally so for the us congress, equally so with an election for the american presidency. if 2024 brings us ‘america first’ again, it will be, more than ever, ‘europe on its own’. we should, as europeans, not fear that prospect. we should embrace it. we should embrace it by putting europe on a more solid footing: stronger, more sovereign, more self-reliant. a europe that delivers and makes a difference in people’s lives, protecting them, strengthening the economy, preparing a common european future. the belgian presidency wants to contribute to this effort, and we are grateful that we can build on the efforts and the many successes of the spanish presidency that just finished. ladies and gentleman, in spite of all the challenges we face, europe is a good place to live, if not probably the best in the world. the euro, the internal market and social cohesion: these are the cornerstones of our prosperity. we managed to turn the page on covid faster than many others in the world. we achieved unity and solidarity in the face of the russian war of aggression against an innocent ukraine, a solidarity we absolutely need to keep up with the ukraine facility and continued military support. for america and for other allies, the support for ukraine is a strategic question. it is a geopolitical consideration. for us europeans, the support to ukraine is existential. it goes to the heart of our security and our prosperity. ladies and gentlemen, one of the biggest challenges ahead is keeping our european economy strong and vibrant. europe cannot become an economic museum. if we want to remain that innovative, creative, capital-rich and productive continent, we will have to switch to a higher gear. the united states of america gave its industry a giant fiscal boost: a usd 1.2 trillion subsidy bazooka that is making even the biggest eu member states flinch. on the other side, we see china strengthening its grip over world markets. the only way we europeans would not get squeezed is to revive the spirit of the great jacques delors, opening up the markets of the future for european competition: energy, digital, artificial intelligence, defence and capital markets. the problem is europe is strong on innovation but weak in scaling up those innovations. our young entrepreneurs struggle today to bring their ideas to the market; they struggle finding risk capital and venture capital to grow their businesses and to conquer new markets. we need to go from ‘invented in europe’ to ‘developed in europe’, all the way to ‘made in europe’. to do that, we need more than just a few pockets of capital in a handful of european cities. we need the whole of europe – every corner of our continent – to turn into one big capital market accessible to all young entrepreneurs from stockholm to naples, from dublin to sofia. that is why the belgian presidency has asked former italian prime minister enrico letta to come with a report to give the european single market a new momentum. we need to make a similar shift when it comes to our industry to keep industrial investment strong, to keep industrial production here among us in europe. for that, we need an industrial deal alongside the green deal. it is not only vital for our prosperity, but also crucial to win the fight against climate change. the climate policies of china and the united states contain an abundance of carrots for their industry, while we here in europe all too often grab for the stick. by not merely fixing the climate goals, but also nailing down the way in which these goals need to be achieved, we are leaving too little room for our companies, too little room for innovation and for creativity. in order to prevail in the fight against climate change, we need a europe with focus: to focus on bringing down greenhouse gas emissions; to support companies who develop and use these clean technologies; to become more technologically neutral in our policies. and let us not forget: to create the necessary social support for these climate policies by making green investments accessible to all, not just to the happy few. that is why our presidency wants to give a new impetus to our social agenda. on the initiative of the president of the european commission, we bring together the social partners to discuss the future of social dialogue to confront the challenges that we face. to discuss how disruptive changes in our social and economic models, such as artificial intelligence, can be best addressed. this initiative goes hand in hand with the belgian presidency’s ambition to ensure a strong implementation of the european pillar of social rights as we prepare for the next institutional cycle. mesdames et messieurs, une europe qui tient sa place dans le monde de demain signifie aussi une europe qui prend ses responsabilités par rapport à ses voisins: les balkans occidentaux, l’ukraine, la moldavie et la géorgie. en attendant d’accueillir de nouveaux membres, ne restons pas inactifs. pendant que les pays candidats se préparent à l’adhésion, nous ne pouvons pas rester les bras croisés. la présidence belge s’efforcera de soutenir les pays candidats dans leur aspiration à rejoindre la famille européenne. plus encore, nous devons assumer notre part de l’effort pour garantir la capacité d’action de l’europe lorsque nous passerons d’une famille de 27 à une famille de plus de 30 membres. la tâche est colossale. c’est pourquoi la présidence belge souhaite établir une feuille de route. voici les quelques domaines dans lesquels nous comptons imprimer notre marque: le financement de l’union, les futures priorités politiques à l’échelle européenne, le renforcement de notre démocratie européenne, une meilleure intégration de l’état de droit dans l’union pour faire en sorte que les critères de copenhague ne soient pas seulement des conditions à l’adhésion de l’union, mais une obligation permanente car le respect de l’état de droit et de la démocratie ne peut pas être un élément secondaire de notre union. il doit être au cœur même de sa conception. c’est pourquoi nous continuerons à appliquer la procédure de l’article sept sous notre présidence car il s’agit des règles les plus fondamentales du contrat social européen. ainsi, nous souhaitons également que les pays candidats à l’adhésion soient impliqués dans nos dialogues sur l’état de droit, et le plus tôt sera le mieux. nous devons soutenir tous les pays qui ont l’ambition de construire un état de droit fort, une démocratie solide et, à partir de là, nous devons mener une lutte toujours plus acharnée contre la désinformation et les ingérences étrangères dans nos élections libres. en belgique, comme dans de nombreux états membres, des puissances étrangères tentent d’affaiblir et de mettre à mal nos processus démocratiques. nous le constatons, la lutte pour une union démocratique va de pair avec une capacité de décision accrue, car c’est ce que nos citoyens et citoyennes attendent de nous: que l’europe agisse concrètement, qu’elle protège au quotidien et qu’elle assure leur prospérité. si notre union s’est construite sous l’impulsion de dirigeants visionnaires, elle est portée aujourd’hui par les attentes de ses citoyens. agir concrètement pour nos citoyens, c’est ce qu’on a fait sous la présidence espagnole, avec le parlement européen, que je félicite d’ailleurs pour les progrès notoires accomplis, notamment en matière de migration. dames en heren, migratie is een uitdaging die alle europeanen bezighoudt. we moeten eerlijk zijn met hen. dit is een complexe kwestie die niet van de ene op de andere dag zal opgelost worden. migratie is zo oud als de mensheid zelf. ze maakt deel uit van onze geschiedenis en ze zal ook deel uitmaken van onze toekomst. of we dat nu willen of niet. maar wat europa wel kan doen, is migratie beheersbaar, controleerbaar en menselijk maken voor iedereen die betrokken partij is. een meer gecoördineerd en geïntegreerd europees buitenlands beleid is duidelijk een deel van de oplossing. we moeten brede partnerschappen aangaan met derde landen, samenwerken met hen op het vlak van energie, van handel, van onderwijs en van talentontwikkeling. europa kan en moet de landen in ons nabuurschap stabieler maken. enkel zo kunnen we op een structurele manier de verwachtingen van onze burgers inzake migratie inlossen. daarom moeten we ook alles in het werk stellen om het leed van onschuldige burgers in israël en palestina een halt toe te roepen. we moeten aandringen op meer humanitaire corridors naar de gazastrook, op veilige corridors die permanent openstaan. het internationaal recht moet gerespecteerd worden. (applaus). europa moet israël ook bijstaan in zijn gerechtvaardigde strijd om de gijzelaars weer vrij te krijgen en zijn legitieme strijd tegen de terroristische organisatie hamas. europese inspanningen om het lijden te stoppen van zowel israëli’s als palestijnen zijn niet onverenigbaar. integendeel: het is het juiste om te doen. enkel een politieke oplossing kan zorgen voor blijvende vrede en veiligheid in het midden-oosten. (applaus) ladies and gentlemen, our european project was born out of a devastating war. the darkest hours of our european history, marked by the shoah, that led to moral insight and repentance. it provided europe with a clear sense of direction. a duty also – a duty to support a democratic and free ukraine against a war of aggression from russia, a duty to help build a path to lasting peace between israel and palestine, but above all, a duty to ourselves, to future generations, to pass on a europe that is more free than the one that we live in today. and let us be clear, that is not self-evident. we see glimpses from those darkest hours in our societies today. we see today women’s rights under pressure. we see the rights of minorities and of lgbtqi people curtailed. we see the return of fascist symbols in our streets and a rise of anti-semitic violence. the fight against our demons never ends. it remains our most important task – the most important task for all of us. yet you see a lot of young europeans from all corners of our continent who are more than ever committed to a free europe – a europe where you can live where you want, a europe where you can love who you want, a europe where you can be who you want. these values is what is at stake at the european ballot boxes in june. ladies and gentlemen, it is a cause worth fighting for.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i promise i will be very brief. but, first and foremost, dear prime minister de croo, dear alexander; dear minister, dear hadja – we were together in several councils; and of course, honourable members of the european parliament; it’s first time, glad to be back in this chamber for the first plenary of 2024. i want to start by wishing all of you a happy new year, because, indeed, this will be a very demanding period for all of us, because the new year brings with it, of course, a new presidency of the council, and first, as the prime minister has just done, i also would like to thank everyone who worked so hard to make the outgoing spanish presidency a success. but now it’s the turn of belgium to take this important responsibility at this very important moment in time. the belgian presidency will see the upcoming european elections in june, and this will help shape the future of our union, and take place amidst extensive and numerous challenges, and the prime minister described all of them in a very eloquent manner. before then, however, it is crucial that we maintain our efforts to deliver on all outstanding files which remain on the table, and the commission stands ready to support the belgian presidency and all of you in making this happen, and showing europeans that we live up to our promises and deliver the real-world results for their benefit. so, i’m very happy that the belgian presidency’s priorities closely align with ours, and i want to touch on a few of them this morning. we need to continue taking action to boost the competitiveness of our economy, including by finding an agreement on the net zero industry act, but also to explore all the possibilities which would make our green deal, our real growth strategy, and to look for every possible angle how to boost the competitiveness of europe and the european economy. we also need to swiftly conclude work on the reform of the eu’s economic governance, so that the new rules enter into force before the european elections, and allow the member states to use the new rules in their fiscal planning for 2025. in addition, the commission trusts that the belgian presidency will ensure appropriate follow-up to the upcoming annual single market and competitiveness report and scoreboard. i’m sure the reports by both distinguished gentlemen, mr letta and mr draghi, will contribute to this reflection. our pursuit of a just green transition must stay on track. in the coming months, this will include finding agreement on the key pending climate and environmental files, such as co2 emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles, carbon-removal certification, and ambient air quality, among others. we also look forward to discussions on the assessment of the 2040 climate target, which we will table in february, as well as a strategy in march on how to better protect europe against the impact of climate change, such as droughts and floods. when it comes to reinforcing our social and health agenda, i am very pleased, and i would like to thank the prime minister and the presidency for putting it so high on this agenda, and we are already looking forward to our discussions in la hulpe on interinstitutional declaration on social europe, but also on the discussion, which will take place a few weeks later, and it will be the social partner summit in val duchesse, which i am sure will help ensure that social partners will remain at the heart of our future. in addition, the presidency’s leadership will be key in pushing forward measures to prevent medicine shortages, an issue that is so close to the hearts of our citizens. this includes establishing a critical-medicine alliance and advancing the reforms of eu pharmaceutical legislation. with political agreement being reached in december on the new pact on migration and asylum, we look to the belgian presidency to finalise the remaining legislative work in this area swiftly, and focus on implementation. it is important that we conclude the trilogues on the schengen borders code and the long-term residents directive, advancing on the anti-smuggling package, which would further strengthen our legislative framework. the commission also welcomes the belgian presidency’s commitment to further work on rule-of-law initiatives, and look forward to the discussions on the defence of democracy package. to better protect the victims of violence – as it was again underscored by the prime minister a few minutes ago – we will look to reach an agreement on the proposed directive on combating violence against women and domestic violence. finally, we will work with our partners around the world, not least in continuing our enduring and unprecedented support for ukraine, and seek a long-term solution to the conflict in the middle east. honourable members, dear prime minister, dear minister, these remaining months of your current mandate will be extremely busy, but i am sure that together we can produce the results expected of us by our citizens. thank you very much and i am looking forward to our discussion.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, mr prime minister, mr commissioner, first of all, in four months you will have to deploy there is no doubt about the efficiency and speed of the belgians. in a speech, there is obviously what is and is not expressed. i deeply regret that there was not a word for agriculture, not a word for all those who live in rural areas, in the most remote areas at european level, and who are waiting for signals from the belgian presidency, too. look at what's happening in germany, the anger of farmers. i think it is important that, when you have the presidency of the european union, you can also reassure the whole european population and give a direction to the protection of the environment. protecting all european citizens wherever they are, whatever their reality, and also empowering them to do what is most important about protection: the eu's autonomy strategy, particularly in sectors as important as food, is a strong signal. i have not heard them, mr prime minister, and i have not even heard the word 'agriculture' in your speech. the same is true in other sectors such as healthcare: europe must also protect its population more and have autonomy again, or in key sectors such as digital, you have said it, but never with the vision of being much stronger in the face of chinese interference. the same is true in other sectors such as defence, where coordination needs to be much stronger. your predecessor, mr macron, had at least laid the foundations for this european defence construction. so you're going to say criticism is easy. however, the anger is great because a few months before the elections, i think it is more than necessary to protect europeans, to give them the guarantee that europe will be at their side to prevent them from going, at the democratic level, to votes that might be extreme. to stand with the rural community and farmers is to defend our food, and it is also to defend the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, prime minister de croo, welcome to the european parliament. belgium holds the rotating presidency of the council in times of uncertainty and great transformation, following the successful spanish presidency, led by president pedro sánchez, with the conclusion of historic agreements, as you have well mentioned: the immigration and asylum pact, the electricity market reform and the law on the restoration of nature. you now have the opportunity to lead the construction of a union not only more competitive but with greater social justice. the belgian presidency cannot be a transitional presidency. in the run-up to the next european elections, our citizens need more progress to ensure progress. if you commit to building a union with more soul, with the soul that jacques delors called for, you can count on the support of the social democratic family, because only with more europe can we solve the real problems of our citizens. and europe is built on a social pillar that guarantees fair wages, minimum income, paid policies and practices and decent housing. mr de croo, respect the agreement reached with parliament on the adoption of the digital workers directive, because the improvement of working conditions for 28 million people cannot wait any longer. europe is built on more equality, and no victory will be more important than building a society where gender-based violence is eradicated. europe is being built with more individual rights, in a union where lgbtq people can love freely. europe is being built with a union that is a leader in the fight against climate change, because progress, if it is not sustainable, cannot be called progress. mr de croo, combating the climate emergency requires courage and leadership: courage and leadership to meet our green pact emission reduction commitments, and courage and leadership to pass the air quality directive and save the lives of 300,000 people who lose it prematurely every year. this is not a figure we invented from the social democratic group; it is a figure that is being contrasted by the medical community and the scientific community. i am pleased to hear the representative of the people's party speak about health: i understand that this means that the people's group will also support the air quality directive. europe is built on open strategic autonomy. it's built on a more humane digital transformation, now that we're the first power in the world to pass the ai act. europe is also being built by making our union an exporting power for peace, because we cannot be indifferent to the suffering of other peoples. we must therefore close the review of the multiannual financial framework with an essential review to continue supporting ukraine, because european solidarity cannot give in to orbán's vetoes or the fatigue of a war that criminal putin will prolong in time. and we must show the same unity and firmness to lead a peace conference in the middle east that will put an end to the crimes of hamas and the netanyahu government and make possible the two-state solution, as you have well mentioned. mr de croo, we need a european project that deludes our citizens; a european project that does not succumb to the denial, fear and hatred of the right and the far right. they are not committing in the liberal family the historic mistake of the conservatives of letting themselves be dragged along by the far right, the greatest threat to our democracy and to the european project. let us have the courage to respond to the challenges we face with a fairer europe, so that, looking back at the end of the belgian presidency, we can say at this crucial moment in history that we are building a better europe.
on behalf of the renew group i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. my best wishes, also here in strasbourg. prime minister, this is the 13th time our country has assumed the presidency. and we belgian people like it. - why? - i don't know. it gives us a moment to show what we're good at. we can re-evaluate our proverbial art of compromise, as you just did, and i think we have all followed that, as you did on your trip to china. the art of compromise, that leadership, will be needed, because we have only a few weeks before these crucial european elections to finish legislation for our security and to set up a european defence and, as far as i am concerned, a european army, for the migration pact, to control our migratory flows and also to develop that necessary european industrial plan. it is urgently needed to strengthen our industry and our businesses. we must remain competitive and i would be very happy if we could write this down for a liberal prime minister. but for me, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing at stake now under this belgian presidency is the reform of the union. i hope that, alexander, you find inspiration. in the year 2001, a belgian presidency was led by another liberal prime minister, as you know. the convention was then launched, which led to a reform of the union, the lisbon treaty. i hope you will find inspiration in this, because i do not know if anyone else doubts that we need to reform the union. we are threatened from within, by the orbans of this world, and threatened from without. we must reform the union now, and especially with the necessary enlargement of the union which is high on the agenda, for our security. but we at renew europe say very clearly: no expansion without floor. the union needs to be reformed. and what does that mean for us? i would like to say that the commission is not going to be able to do this. i am sure that, with a calm but confident leadership, you will bring this presidency to a successful conclusion and that it will be a success. you know, when the wind blows and it goes up, we flemish are the best. so i would say: put the whip on it, let it go. our support is already there for you. - good luck to you!
on behalf of the greens/efa group. madam president, mr prime minister, welcome to this assembly. i have absolutely no doubt and i think that nobody here has any, that belgium is able, for the third time, to assume the presidency of the union with a clear mind. i would like to begin by paying tribute to you and your political attitude. often, even in our country, political debate is reduced to a form of cockfight where ideas, projects have no importance. your way of being that combines dignity of office and nuance with respect for the human person is, to me, a quality that every political leader should show, and you do. i thank you for being able to lead by example. this does not mean, however, that we agree on everything. and if there is one occasion that you have shocked me, it is the day you used the word 'pause' in the european green pact on the green transition. i understand that manfred weber, a conservative, is talking about a moratorium. emmanuel macron, who is ecologically unstable until it concerns the interests of his electoral base, i.e. the rentiers, uses the word 'pause', 'agree'. but not you, not you anyway. you know, when a house burns and there's the ecolo talking when the house burns, firefighters aren't told to take a break until the fire is extinguished. and i would also say, with the past we share in the private sector, that when europe is engaged in a marathon of competitiveness against the united states and china in the green revolution, we cannot afford a break. rather, we must speed up. of course, when you start running, you get a little joint pain. but i think that our societies are ready for the effort, as long as the effort is distributed fairly among them, which is absolutely crucial. the last point i would like to raise is the question of failure. i would like to ask you, mr president, if you would like to see the commission's proposals adopted by the council on the basis of the draft budget. at a time when we need a strategic european union, a european union that invests more than ever, we are getting ready. when i read the council and parliament's text, we are getting ready to really undermine, to sacrifice both our social cohesion, our future economic prosperity and, i would say, our geopolitical sovereignty by forcing us to cut our arms, legs and wings off at the very moment when the european union is going to have to take off, perhaps without the protection of the united states, as has been the case since world war ii. i think that adopting such rules would be a form of suicide for the european union, and therefore i wish us collective failure on this.
on behalf of the ecr group good morning, mr president, colleagues. mr prime minister, you are also now calling for an industrial deal. you are calling for the strengthening of our competitiveness. you have apparently listened very carefully to what the n-va has been proposing for years. but you are not acting on that, mr prime minister, and i hope that the eu will have a better policy than your disastrous belgian policy. the first priority must be the completion of our internal market. this is a growth rate of 12%. but you let the worst happen. you have fragmented the internal market. the level playing field for state aid has been lifted to the detriment of the economies of the small member states, to the detriment of our growth and prosperity. in addition, the major member states are only allowing products from their own countries to be sold in their retail trade, again to the detriment of our economy, our jobs, our prosperity. and in line with your liberal vision, you are calling for more eu taxes. the eu does not need more resources. the eu needs to be reformed in a profound way. we must shift our budget towards more resources for innovation, infrastructure, green and digital transition, security and migration policy. open strategic autonomy must be the answer to the progressive process of deglobalization. but your government is clearly blocking new trade agreements, which are a means to that end. you're also working on a whole new set of rules. the eu is always producing new rules and this is choking our competitiveness. the commission has already decided to grant a number of exemptions to the new technologies. and finally: our security has long been under threat again. you must make it a top priority to arrange more resources and more weapons for support to ukraine. there's a lot of work to do. we will follow your presidency closely and critically.
on behalf of the id-fraction, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i did not come here today to apologize for the behaviour of the absent charles michel, who is not only embarrassing belgium but also the european institutions themselves. somebody else has to do it. for those who are critical of european cooperation and a european union which is evolving into a centralised unity state at the expense of the powers of the member states, for those who take our people first as the basis of their political action, the belgian presidency is not good news. belgium will try to push as far as possible and as much as possible the extremist-federalist agenda of the commission-von der leyen before the elections put an end to this left-liberal and green celebration of recent years. the belgian establishment is not only a blind follower of this agenda, but the belgian government is also, like the majority in this european parliament, a rallying cry that in fact does not have a genuine democratic majority in the belgian parliament. to circumvent a clear right-wing, flemish national electoral victory in flanders, a government has been formed dominated by left-wing mps elected mainly in the french-speaking part of the country. the head of the coalition is a flemish prime minister from one of the smallest parties in the coalition. that position makes him a so-called "dirty" of the walloon socialist party. a damned rag, not according to the word nigel farage once used here for the image of herman van rompuy, but according to the word alexander de croo literally himself, in an interview, a few months before the moment he was going to take on that statue of dirt himself. the consequences of these political imbalances are not permanent. belgium is itself a serious problem, not according to my figures, but according to the european commission's semester assessment. the budget deficit is the worst in the whole of the european union, after slovakia, both this year and afterwards, when the situation will continue to deteriorate to around 5%. the global debt level is threatened to rise to 107.3% by 2025 and unlike the rest of the european union, with the exception of slovakia, inflation in belgium will rise to 4.2% in 2024. the fact that belgium is in such an exceptional and indeed scandalous situation is less mysterious than it seems. if you dare to look at the facts, you can see that all french-speaking institutions, or those dominated by french-speaking socialists, are on the verge of financial catastrophe in 2024. french-speaking belgium is therefore no longer able to contribute to the normalisation of the country. on the flemish side, this normalisation is increasingly considered simply impossible and flanders is seeking either partial or complete autonomy. so, before the presidency of belgium today, a penalty box is needed a penalty box after the 2024 elections.
on behalf of the band the left. mrs president, mr prime minister, apparently we need to hurry up a little bit, because you still have to go to davos. i know that's not the reality with millionaires out there. you're still going to take five minutes to listen to us, because the reality of the millionaires in davos is obviously not the reality of the working class in europe today. your government is leading a europe in a catastrophic social situation. the wages are not enough anymore. people are afraid of shopping prices, afraid of increasing the heat even when it's cold like today. and it is very striking that in this context you did not dare in your speech to assume one of the central priorities of this belgian presidency: the return of budgetary rules, which you keep silent about, which is well present in the document, in the plan, but here in your speech you hide the return of european austerity laws. what does that mean? this means budget cuts in hospitals, schools, daycare centres and even you know, in 2023 the european commission has already complained about wage indexation in belgium even our wages may be attacked with this mechanism. so do you really want to be the government, mr de croo, that brings this carcan back and that puts the rope around the neck of the working people all over europe? we must not bring back this carcass, we must bury it and as president, sabotage these negotiations, stop these negotiations on the budget pact. instead of cutting our wages, in our services, mr de croo, read the oxfam report yesterday. the multinationals all over the world, including in europe, are making overprofits. their profits will break all records in 2023. in belgium, your country and mine, the richest 1% of the population, own as much as 70% of the population. and yet no ambitious taxation initiative in your program. - none of them. have a minimum of ambition, please. tax the millionaires, the big multinationals, or the financial transactions. are you afraid to do it because then, i don't know, bill gates won't be going to the belgian pavilion in davos soon? i am not saying that this is the europe that workers need. it is still true, my lord de croo. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the european union. are you going to be a little bit more careful? will we be able to save on the things that people need to do? that's not true! stop that! the president of the commission will say: 'no, europe will not be saved anymore.' these budgetary rules, which we do not want to go to meetings, are not a priority. the commission has also proposed a new programme for the european community to be launched in the coming years. do you want to welcome signal stuurt u daarmee naar de werkende mens? i mean, what about the buses? do you have more than one station? lieen die bang zijn hun verwarming op te zetten? look at oxfam, listen to oxfam and get the money where it is. the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for a new tax programme. that must be possible. the russian military in ukraine is not a criminal offence. well, but there's no word about war on israel. why? why does netanyahu give you a free brief?
madam president, mr prime minister, this will be the 13th belgian presidency in history and belgium has often marked its presidency positively. i want the preceding to prove it, remember, and you will remember it better than anyone, mr prime minister, since it was in 2010 that it was carried out from end to end by a government in ordinary affairs that you had helped put into this situation. this presidency will be difficult because it is the last one in the legislature, and there are so many important issues to be resolved, including a green pact to be saved, a profound geopolitical crisis to be managed, but also an economic and social situation in an inflationary context to be tackled. flattering people will say that there was no better country than belgium to handle this crisis anyway, and to preside over europe at this time because we always end up finding solutions and bad language will say that we should have probably pushed back our presidency because there are three elections on 9 june. anyway, as of january 16th, you have exactly 100 days left. 100 days to convince, 100 days to succeed. this will be the date of the last plenary session of this parliament. but for belgium and for europe, you must succeed and i wish you success, mr prime minister, and all your government team.
madam president, prime minister de croo welcome back to the european parliament. obviously, belgium takes over the presidency of the council of the european union at a very important moment in time, specifically, also due to the european elections. obviously, belgium will have three main responsibilities, duties, opportunities during this presidency: firstly, to defend and promote whatever we have managed to do good in europe over the course of the last five years, so that the citizens of europe can make an informed decision when they go to the polls in june; secondly, to respond to crisis; and thirdly, to further develop the european union. when i speak about responding to crises, we are seeing many farmers being concerned, being out in the streets in many member states of the european union. prime minister de croo, we expect the belgian council presidency to react to this, to put the concerns of the farmers on the agenda of the council as a matter of priority. when it comes to further developing the union, i think the belgian presidency has identified some correct priorities for the european union, and i would like to encourage you to work a lot on further strengthening the competitiveness of the european economy. we started to do some good work with the swedish presidency on this topic. improving the competitiveness of our economy means the economy can grow. we can create more jobs. we can secure the payments of salaries, of pensions, of social benefits. this is the core of what europe is. so please work on competitiveness. please be fast on revising the multiannual financial framework at all levels in the council. this needs to be done. please count on the european parliament. prime minister, to you, to the government and to the many belgian diplomats working on the presidency, we wish all the best. your success will be the success of all of us.
(s&d) president, mr prime minister. europe is at a crossroads - as you have already pointed out - and the belgian presidency will be the one to shape that. it's clear to us: it will be about a europe that protects, strengthens prosperity and defends freedom, democracy and human rights. that europe must and will be social. the debate on the revision of the budgetary rules, called economic governance, is therefore so crucial. there can be no return to a policy of saving, saving and saving. mr botenga, you're wrongly informed. if there is one member state which is very firmly in the position we have taken in the european parliament, in particular in terms of investment, including social investment, public services and a sustainable transition, it is belgium. and there is a very important task for you, mr prime minister, to turn the council's bad position to a better one. my colleague lamberts has already referred to it: in that transition there can be no pause button, mr prime minister, that was a little bit of a faux pas. it's a false choice, by the way. it is not about nature or farmers or ambitious climate policy or our industry. they're going hand in hand. what is important is that we do not actually have the public funds in europe yet. a kind of european investment fund to level the playing field for all member states and to ensure two important things: a genuine industrial policy that keeps industry in europe; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission, and we are now in favour of the proposal. we must, by the way, improve public transport. last point -- very important, our responsibility: the geopolitics. - the ukraine. if one man -- or one woman -- stays behind ukraine and fulfills our promises. mr president, it will be very important to show the same courage and unity in the conflict between israel and hamas. and i know that the belgian position on this matter is good. let us ensure that an immediate ceasefire and access to much more humanitarian aid become an absolute focus of this belgian presidency. i wish you all the courage and all our support.
the commission has already decided to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the budgetary procedure. i call on you, mr de croo, to be ambitious in that. it is a good thing that you are focusing on the green transition of our industry and you have already said that more european resources are needed. i agree with that, because we must at all costs avoid going back to that cold savings logic of the past. i hope that we can count on belgium to do this, because it is crucial for the social dimension of europe that we put our presidency high on the agenda. the resources for childcare and care should be increased rather than decreased. and it is time for us to finally anchor those social investments in europe. finally, we expect belgium, of course, to set an ambitious climate policy that everyone can take part in. the advisory board proposes a rate of reduction of at least 90% to 95% by 2040. that is absolutely possible, especially now that even poland is behind it. because protecting our planet, mr. prime minister, is protecting our health and the future of our children and our grandchildren.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. that's a complete lie. there is no upper limit on the number of asylum seekers and there is no return mechanism for asylum fraudsters. so the asylum chaos will just keep going. illegal migration is not the subject of this eu migration pact. the real intention is more migration. commissioner johansson admits openly: the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the importation of certain products. - every year. targeted organized overpopulation. this european union is completely disengaging. we never signed up for this. and for de croo as prime minister of belgium, nobody actually ever voted. your party is up 7%. your political game is over, and so you're trying to decorate an international runway, like charles michel did in 2019. just like you did back then, you're pushing a migration pact through the throats of our people. and just like then, the people will present you with the bill. because our people don't want more migration, they want less migration. in 2024, we will take our country back.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. in the wake of the return of austerity which has pushed our citizens into precariousness and into the arms of reactionary ideologies, let us oppose solidarity and investment in transitional jobs, in public services and in conditions of decent living. at the regulatory break in environmental and climate legislation, which some want, including you, mr prime minister, let us propose an energy transition that creates jobs from a healthy environment, insulation and renewable energy for cheaper energy bills, biodiversity, local agriculture without gmos. the european union is a stronghold for the peaceful struggle of the people of europe, and we must fight against the rule of law, solidarity and humanity. mr de croo, on the eve of the european elections, the belgian presidency will have to give the breath and the prospects that the european union fundamentally needs. to achieve its climate and biodiversity objectives through a new green and social pact, to make social europe a reality that protects and invests in its citizens, for a democratic europe where fundamental rights prevail, we must prove to european citizens that europe is their home, that they can rely on it and, above all, that they have a say in future european policies.
mr president, 100 days of war, death and desolation in gaza. the israeli hostages are kept away from their relatives for 100 days. 100 days and more than 23,000 palestinians, including 10,000 children, killed by israeli forces. 100 days and over 100 un workers and 80 journalists dead. an unprecedented humanitarian crisis according to the largest international ngos, the imminence of a high risk of genocide according to the united nations. all this has to stop. in the face of this massacre, europe's silence for 100 days has made a noise. history is watching us and we are not up to the task, whereas the european union and the entire international community have obligations under international law. the european union must demand an immediate and permanent ceasefire, respect for international humanitarian law, an end to arbitrary detention, the release of israeli hostages and the adoption of sanctions against those responsible for war crimes, the prohibition on importation of products from the settlements and the suspension of the association agreement with israel. the european union must once again become a lasting peace actor in the region.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this very important debate. i would like to refer to one point that was made by several speakers: the call for the eu to play an active role in addressing the current tragic, catastrophic situation in gaza and beyond. i wish to assure you that the eu is committed to playing this role, an active role. first, on the humanitarian front, the eu is the leading provider of humanitarian funding for gaza and for palestinians in general. this shall remain so. and we shall not tire of calling for respect for international humanitarian law, in particular protection of civilians, unconditional release of hostages and unfettered provision of humanitarian aid throughout gaza to all people who need it. second, the eu is committed to playing an active role to prevent the escalation of this conflict region-wide. i would like to recall that earlier this month, high representative borrell travelled to the region precisely with this ambition. third, the eu is also committed to playing an active role in pursuit of lasting peace in the region based on a two-state solution, and we are already working on the scenarios for the day after. but let me underline one particular point. it would help us and increase our leverage if there were one voice with which the european union would speak, including the strong voice of this house. that would increase our leverage, that would facilitate our playing an active and effective role in this region. we do hope that it would also bring closer the so-called day after. it is clear that for the day after, there shall be no place for hamas to rule in gaza or anywhere else. and for the day after, there should be a reinvigorated palestinian authority able to take over gaza. we’ll continue to engage with our regional and international partners on all that, and we do remain committed to a lasting and sustainable peace based on a two-state solution and we are ready to reinvigorate all efforts to revive the middle east peace process.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, dear janez, what a passionate debate. and, i must say, this is always the case when we speak about the israeli-palestinian conflict. indeed the violence that we see day after day coming from the region is unbearable and must stop. too many children, women and men have died already. and these deaths, be it on the israeli or palestinian side, tarnish and damage our humanity. but we need rationalism. and indeed, i agree with you, commissioner. in any future scenario, for the day after the palestinian authority must be reinvigorated and ultimately we turn to gaza. we all agree that there is no place for hamas rule, nor does anyone want a return of israeli occupation. the palestinian authority should be strongly supported to regain control of gaza. in parallel, and as and as i said in my introduction, we will step up our work on alleviating the suffering of civilians in gaza and elsewhere. we will renew our efforts to prevent further escalation and finding a way out of the current crisis. we will prepare the ground for a lasting and sustainable regional peace, and the only way for that is a two-state solution based on international parameters. we take note of south africa’s application to the international court of justice, instituting proceedings against the state of israel concerning alleged violations by israel of its obligations under the 1948 genocide convention in relation to the palestine palestinian people in gaza. the icj is currently holding public hearings on south africa’s request for the indication of provisional measures. the eu cannot be a party to, or intervene in, a contentious case before the icj. the eu is firmly committed to the rules-based international order. as a principal judicial organ of the united nations, the icj is a pillar thereof and has a vital role to play in the peaceful settlement of disputes. la situation au moyen-orient était déjà une priorité essentielle de la présidence belge avant l’attaque du 7 octobre, et elle figure désormais plus que jamais en tête de nos priorités du conseil. la belgique devait accueillir à bruxelles l’initiative «peace day effort» proposée par la ligue arabe, l’union européenne, l’arabie saoudite, sous le patronage de l’égypte et de la jordanie. nous espérons qu’une telle initiative verra le jour bientôt à bruxelles et que les conditions seront réunies pour relancer un processus de négociations politiques. nous comptons sur votre soutien pour nous aider à atteindre cet objectif. dans ce conflit, le plus difficile, pour notre union, est d’être unis et de parler d’une seule voix, la voix du droit international, la seule voie possible pour la paix.
i have received six motions for resolutions submitted for consideration pursuant to rule 132 (2). the vote shall be delivered on wednesday 17 january 2024. the following information shall be provided: see the minutes. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
in writing. listening to this debate, i am disgusted by those who still and always seek excuses from israel for war crimes, an ethnic cleansing going on not only in gaza but also in the west bank and jerusalem. i am disgusted that apparently the majority of you are not ready to call for an immediate ceasefire in gaza. three months of israeli attacks, denounced to the international court of justice by south africa on the basis of the convention for the prevention and suppression of the crime of genocide. thousands of innocent children killed. nearly two million displaced people in gaza. and you here, from the comfort of your parliamentary seat, bail out, you let go. while the horrific images of crimes committed by a partner country, an associated country of the european union, fill the screens of our phones. i tell you that without an immediate ceasefire this parliament will lose all credibility in the field of human rights and international law. you will never have to afford to learn about human rights or international law again. you'll never have to pretend to speak for universal values again.
on behalf of the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the far right is advancing in several european countries today, it is first of all because people are looking for alternatives to traditional policies, those policies of the centre-right and centre-left which today have made people afraid to go shopping too, because they cost too much. we are now aware of what is happening in europe, which is a social emergency. and then the far right, we know, comes along, saying, "well, it's easy, it's all the fault of immigrants, refugees and islamists" and claims to defend workers; we know that this is a scam, of course, because then here they accept the stability pact, which will force italy to cut billions, or they oppose the minimum wage, a basic right for many workers everywhere in europe but clearly not in italy. to defeat this new far-right demagogy, however, we must offer an alternative: the stability pact must be rejected. wages must be adjusted to inflation; a decent minimum wage must be introduced, even in italy; you have to give income to the unemployed. it takes dignity and hope for workers. what are you waiting for?
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his report on the implementation of the agreement between the european union and canada. ceta is a free trade agreement that has been the subject of much controversy, so to speak, so it must draw our attention to what elements could still be problematic five years later, in the context of provisional implementation, and why some member states have not ratified it five years later. if nothing has changed, five years later, if no new guarantees are given, what would enable these member states to change their position? i think it is difficult for us to adopt a report which does not call for a revision of this treaty on sustainability to bring it into line with the european reform of the chapters on sustainable development, which we adopted under this mandate, and with the investment part as well. the paradox is that canada is willing, without ratification by all the member states of the european union, to review the chapter on sustainable development and i call on our institution and the european commission to move in this direction to allow member states to join the coalition of states that have ratified it, if necessary, but we cannot adopt this report.
thirty seconds, as always, so you did that, and i would remind everybody really to respect exactly what we are debating right now, and not to use words that are too harsh.
i would like to add my voice to this coral majority which clearly expresses the european parliament's welcome and support for the commission's initiative to extend the eu list of crimes to incitement to hatred and hate crimes, starting with the basis: it includes not only discrimination on grounds of sex or race but, as the charter of fundamental rights of the european union commands, discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, age or disability and protects particularly vulnerable persons and groups, including minors, particularly those who are subjected to social media, harassment and cyberbullying. from a clear beginning, freedom of expression is not exercised by anyone who insults and slanders, commits a crime, does so in real life, face to face, or does so on social media. the european union cannot be exposed to haters, who hate everything we represent, everything that allows us to live together on the basis of respect. the purpose of this debate is therefore to call on the council to adopt the decision - as the treaty wishes unanimously (article 83) - so that we can finally create the european criminal legislation we need; and, as long as unanimity is not possible, to use the gateway clause in the expectation that a treaty reform will eliminate the dysfunctional unanimity and allow decisions to be taken by qualified majority.
the commissioner, mr didier reynders, and colleagues, have been witnessing an exponential increase in crime and hate speech in recent years. the latter are dangerous to the rule of law and democracy because they too often serve an extreme political ideology. their representatives use these hateful speeches to stir up anger, exacerbate fears to advance their own political agenda. we therefore need to expand the list of european offences in order to have a harmonised definition of crime and hate speech in order to better identify and combat it more effectively. in this regard, i would like to welcome the steadfast commitment of commissioner didier reynders and my colleague maite pagazaurtundúa, for whom it is a life-long struggle and who are not letting go of anything. thank you, thank you. i regret, as do other colleagues, the absence of a representative of the council in this chamber. we all know that we would like the council to stop blocking this text for a strong and firm europe against hate speech and hate crimes.
president. - the next item is the debate on so-called hate crimes, which must now be contained on the internet. why the stubbornness? simply put, the traditional parties are losing their grip on opinion-making. on the internet, anyone can read what they want and say what they want. that's for the regime out of the blue. the people must read what the regime dictates and dissident views must be banished. that is the aim of the majority in this house. anyone who opposes mass immigration is a racist. anyone who criticizes the gender madness, it discriminates. whoever makes burning jokes about a fat man, about a skinny man, about a transgender man, about blacks, about jews, who commits a crime. soon, only burning jokes about stupid blondes or old white men will be allowed. that, colleagues, is self-hatred.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. the european union is increasingly denying this basic principle of subsidiarity. the commission has already decided to extend the scope of the directive to the member states. with their eu climate madness, they want to shape our whole lives, with their eu migration pact, they want to bring millions of africans to europe every year without anyone ever asking. as if that were not enough, they are now even trying to impose eu taxes and to dig up eu debt wells. countries that do not follow suit are threatened with political intimidation and financial blackmail. this european union is completely disengaging and therefore we must and will take back control.
madam president, this is the first tool of farmers' labour: land. to ensure our food sovereignty and stop the bleeding of our countryside, we must protect it. the only response from the heads of state to angry farmers is to remove an environmental measure. what are farmers waiting for? they expect to live with dignity from their work and be accompanied in their ecological transition. they expect a guaranteed return price, regulation of wholesale distribution, the cessation of free trade negotiations with the countries of mercosur and a new agricultural pact built with them and for them, with the citizens and for the citizens. we expect you, national and european leaders, to finally understand the social and climate emergency, of which farmers are the first victims. while your neoliberal policies, supported by the right and also by the far right, which claim to be alongside farmers, have wiped out more than half of the farms in 20 years, as spain dries up and the north of calais drowns, you continue to be more beautiful and condemn our future. a new agricultural pact that ensures decent incomes for those who feed us and that preserves our planet and our health is why we will continue to fight.
madam president, we have here in the european parliament, we have trumpets and it's putin's trumpets that spit out only false propaganda, of course. we also have canned goods here in the european parliament that, when they break, they only bring out dirty interests, all of putin and the kremlin. how long are we gonna sit around and watch them do nothing? how long are we gonna be sitting around without making any rules about how to answer this? because the last time we sat, we woke up with putin's tanks at the door. we have trumpets, we have cannons in other european countries, in other capitals. we have the chocolates, the biggest cannery, the biggest trumpet in bucharest. i'm still in budapest, i'm still in vienna, but let's start here and solve our problem. let's stop letting them be the buttons, let's stop letting them talk all the nonsense we all hear here and more importantly, let's not let them influence our politics.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members, i am very encouraged by the views expressed in this debate. we all agree that we need to protect our democracy and the values that represent the model of society we stand for. we have to ensure that external actors do not succeed in misleading or deceiving us. it is also key to ensure that our citizens have full trust in the eu institutions. ethics and accountability for all are crucial. the era of europe’s innocence is definitely over, and if we keep working together on all the six strands i mentioned in my introductory speech, i’m sure that together we are much stronger than the kremlin’s propaganda machine.
president-in-office of the council. i would like to thank the honourable members for this lively debate, which shows how much we all share the same objective of protecting our democracies and electoral processes without foreign interference. and, in this regard, the council has played an active role through the work done in its relevant working groups, first by examining relevant commission initiatives such as the defence of democracy package, the digital services act, the strengthened code of practice on disinformation and the implementation of the eu foreign investment screening mechanism, to name a few. second, by developing more comprehensive and ambitious responses to build our society's resilience and counter disinformation attacks and hybrid threats. furthermore, the hybrid toolbox aims to maximise all available policies and measures to mitigate and respond to hybrid threats while assessing the possibility to introduce new measures. in addition, there is the fimi toolbox, which aims to coordinate the eu response to hybrid campaign. to limit the spread of fimi, the eu has adopted several unprecedented measures, such as sanctioning a number of russias war propaganda instruments, for example, russia today and sputnik. we all know that the coming year will be a decisive one. russia continues to try to destabilize our continent, and we have all seen its use of various forms of interference, such as disinformation and cyberattacks, which challenge our democratic values and aim to weaken our governments. we also think of our citizens. we must provide them with access to relevant and reliable information so that our democracies stand. we must also ensure that our citizens remain vigilant, give them the tools to freely formulate their opinions, make their own choices, maintain their critical spirit, that is, make their own choices. we will ensure that, until the european elections, the belgian presidency does everything in its power to remain focused on these objectives.
the debate is closed. i have received six motions for resolution to wind up the debate. the vote will be held on thursday.
the next item is the debate on the report by nikolaj villumsen, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 98/24/ec and directive 2004/37/ec of the european parliament and of the council as regards the limit values for lead and its inorganic compounds and diisocyanates (com(2023)0071 - c9-0022/2023 - 2023/0033(cod)) (a9-0263/2023).
member of the commission. – madam president, dear members, first of all, i would like to thank the european parliament, the committee on employment and social affairs, and the rapporteur, mr nikolaj villumsen, for the outstanding work during the last months that was essential to reach a good political agreement on this important file. ensuring safe workplaces is a continuous objective of the commission, as it has been ever since the first european community. the swift agreement on stricter rules preventing exposure from lead and diisocyanates at work will contribute to achieving this goal. the amending directive also delivers on the commitment made under the european pillar of social rights action plan and the eu’s strategic framework on health and safety at work (2021-2027). the political agreement debated today will benefit about 100 000 workers exposed to lead in the eu, and 4.2 million workers exposed to diisocyanates. concerning lead, significantly reduced limit values will help prevent damaging health effects, including those affecting reproductive functions and foetal development. as regards diisocyanates, the first ever eu exposure limits will prevent cases of occupational asthma and other respiratory diseases, and complement existing eu measures under the reach regulation. the directive also addresses workers with historic exposure and aims to improve the protection of women of childbearing age. both substances will be critical in the industrial processes needed to advance the eu’s transition to climate neutrality, and the new legislation will help promote a green transition closely connected to safety and health at work, which seems to me absolutely indispensable – we do not want to save the planet and at the same time make people sick and threaten their health and safety. moreover, the commission working closely with eu agencies – european chemicals agency and the european agency for safety and health at work – will provide guidelines to facilitate the implementation of the directive, covering aspects such as on the effects of exposure to a combination of substances and on health surveillance and biological monitoring. let me just mention that the commission has submitted a statement in relation to the institutional prerogatives of the commission and the well-established procedure in the area of occupational safety and health. i commend the excellent collaboration on this agreement. once approved, the new directive will contribute to healthier workplaces. now we need to make sure these new provisions are effectively implemented, and i count on your continuous support in our collective effort to protect workers and society at large. commission statement(in writing) “the commission recalls that the right of initiative accorded to it under the treaties includes the right to decide whether or not to submit a legislative proposal and, including, as the case may be, to determine the subject-matter, objective, content and timeline of such proposal and/or related action. the provisions of the directive which request the commission:to review the limit values for lead and its inorganic compounds and for diisocyanates,to develop guidelines on health surveillance and biological monitoring regarding lead, to assess the effects of exposure to a combination of substances with a view to develop union guidelines, to assess the appropriateness of including endocrine disruptors within the scope of the directive must thus be understood as being without prejudice to the commission’s right of initiative under the treaties. the commission declares that any possible legislative proposal and/or action on any of the above-mentioned issues will be prepared in adherence to the well-established process in the area of occupational safety and health, and within the requisite timelines, thorough consultation and involvement of social partners and external stakeholders, and in line with its better regulation agenda. besides the two-stage consultation of social partners set out in article 154 tfeu, this process includes the consultation of the tripartite advisory committee on safety and health at work, the opinion of the risk assessment committee of the european chemicals agency and an impact assessment.”
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the fifth revision of the cancer substances directive is of utmost importance to the health of the 100,000 workers who are regularly exposed to lead and the 4.2 million workers who come into contact with dioxygen in europe. i am satisfied that tomorrow we can vote for a balanced agreement which places the health of workers at the top of the agenda but at the same time gives our own european lead and battery sector the opportunity to help achieve the climate targets. we're going to a lead that's up to five times lower than the 1982 limit. for diisocyanates, we're setting a limit for the first time. we also found a solution for workers who have historically high lead values in their blood. the agreement also provides for better training and awareness-raising on health effects for workers, particularly women. the directive also extends the directive on carcinogens to include, inter alia, hormone disruptors. in addition, initiatives are being launched to better protect firefighters from exposure to carcinogens. the agreement also calls for additional measures to combat the so-called cocktail effect. i therefore expressly ask you to vote tomorrow in favour of the tripartite agreement and to ask the member states to transpose the directive as soon as possible so that 4.3 million workers can benefit from safer workplaces. finally, this was the last working document on occupational health and safety during this sitting. i would like to thank the commissioner and his colleagues, particularly across party lines, for their particularly good cooperation. i think there are few cases where there is such a consensus across party lines on the protection of workers in the workplace, where we have been able to work shoulder to shoulder, often with the same people, with the same rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs. it is therefore very nice to be able to conclude those files in a positive way. and of course, i also have in mind our colleague, véronique trillet-lenoir. i also want to thank the rapporteur, our colleague nikolaj villumsen, for the very good cooperation and of course also all the colleagues from the various groups who are here.
mr president, madam commissioner, my speech today is inspired by a conversation with the daughter of farmers who have lymphoma, a cancer most likely related to pesticide exposure. how can i restore respect? she asked. respect for farmers, their health and that of consumers. respect for production, which includes fair remuneration, but also the end of food waste and ecological bleaching, respect for life and the earth. farmers have come to remind us that this respect is only possible if the rules of international trade are fundamentally reviewed at the wto, which is synonymous with unbridled free trade, which leads to unfair competition between producers in the south and north. a free trade that respects neither producers, workers, consumers nor the environment. no one understands that our milk powder is being sent to africa, where cows still give fresh milk, and our frozen fries to peru, a historically potato-producing country. it is up to you to find consistency in importing chicken, beef or sugar, whereas we produce it at home in such quantities that we export it. the green deal, before it was broken up for political reasons and after the world has gone above 1.5°c of warming, is the backbone of our european action. for it not to be a new neocolonial instrument, a global green pact is needed to ensure the food sovereignty of peoples, fair trade, and the objective of achieving the sustainable development goals. the belgian presidency must indeed mark a turning point in this context. you must clearly position yourself for the end of negotiations with the mercosur countries on free trade agreements that are contrary to all commitments.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, this has been a very interesting debate and i have listened very carefully to your intervention – very relevant interventions. the european union will play a leadership role in the run up to mc13 and during the conference itself. we will deploy every effort at technical and political level to make mc13 a success, despite the risk of messy and unpredictable negotiations in abu dhabi. executive vice-president valdis dombrovskis looks forward to seeing some of you in abu dhabi and i am confident that i can count on your help to convey to our wto interlocutors that a successful ministerial is critical to show that wto reform is on track, and that we need to continue what we set out to do at mc12. we will, of course, keep the european parliament closely involved along the way. we count on your continued support. together as europe, we can really make a difference. thank you for your support and for this debate.
author. – mr president, dear colleagues, commissioner, i am speaking here on behalf of the committee on petitions, but i’m also inspired by the teacher strike which ended in estonia a few days ago. after several days of strike, our underpaid and overworked teachers got a salary increase of eur 17 per month. and i am speaking about the country which, according to pisa tests, remains on top of eu ratings. there is a critical need in our societies for high-quality education to prepare pupils to lead successful, fulfilling lives and contribute meaningfully to their communities by providing them with relevant educational experiences, developing practical skills, acquisitions and problem-solving abilities, as well as by fostering critical thinking, creativity and adaptivity. the aim of the oral question we are discussing today is to address one of the challenges faced in attaining high-quality education. namely, the situation of teachers and of the teaching profession in the european union, as the teaching standards are closely linked to the resources made available to them, their training opportunities, as well as to the roles they are asked to fulfil. the reality we are confronted to nowadays is that the eu faces an ageing teaching population, the difficulty of recruiting and retaining qualified teachers, severe teacher shortages especially in rural areas, inadequate salary levels, the lack of collective bargaining agreements, as well as accentuated psychological pressure related to increased levels of violence in schools, bigger classroom sizes coupled with often decreased quality of infrastructure and multiplied administrative tasks assigned to them. the committee on petitions has received several petitions highlighting these aspects in recent years, the most recent one having been discussed last autumn in the committee. in light of these discussions, it is imperative that we address the following questions: what is the assessment of the current state of working conditions of teachers in the european union, and the effects on the quality of education and the transmission of fundamental knowledge? which are the instruments the commission makes available to member states to assist them to implement relevant improvements in school education systems, considering the evolving demands of the labour market and correlated education needs, and necessity of continuous professional development and upskilling, as well as the importance of infrastructure investments? which are the strategies the commission foresees for levelling up the prestige and attractiveness of the teaching profession, including in rural, outmost and depopulated areas, to fight against negative demographic trends? how is the commission encouraging the development of clear career prospects and attractive pay for the teaching profession? how is the commission monitoring the implementation of directive (eu) 2019/1152 on transparent and predictable working conditions in relation to the teaching profession in the eu? which further actions does it intend to take to guarantee the full compliance with its provisions, including as regards the right to collective agreements?
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i would like to thank, first of all, the chair of the peti committee, honourable member montserrat, for bringing forward this important issue on the working conditions of teachers in the european education area. i would also like to thank vice-chair toom, who is presenting the point today. teacher shortages are a serious cause of concern, which is shared by us all. this is also confirmed by the recent pisa results. not even one member state managed to improve their performance in basic skills. and if we are to contribute to a solution to this challenge, which is so important for our competitiveness, teachers are a fundamental part of the answer. that is why the commission continues to strongly support the efforts of the member states to tackle these complex challenges, and it is also one of the key priorities for me during this mandate. we have already dedicated several reports and studies to assessing the situation of teachers in all eu member states. we have also developed a brand new indicators dashboard. this interactive online tool provides comparative information supporting member states’ decisions regarding the teaching profession. the commission also uses all policy and funding instruments at its disposal to support member states in improving their school education systems, and in training and preparing teachers to meet their professional challenges. for example, the european education area strategic framework offers a forum for discussion and collaboration through its working groups, composed of experts nominated by the member states and key stakeholders. these working groups have fed into several of our policy initiatives, and we can see some of this work in the many council recommendations that underline the key role of school leaders, teachers and other educational staff. we also, of course, support member states through funding. both the european social fund and the recovery and resilience facility invest in measures, reforms and investments supporting education, training and skills at all levels, including in the teaching profession. and, of course, our flagship education programme, erasmus+, supports member states by providing professional development opportunities to teachers. and then there are also the new erasmus+ teacher academies. they aim to equip teachers to deal with common challenges, from inclusion and equity to digital education or sustainable development. some 27 teacher academies projects have been initiated, exceeding the initial goal of having 25 teacher academies by 2025 and, given the interest, a new call has just been launched for 15 additional projects in 2024. yet, in addition to resources and investment, recognition is also a fundamental part of our strategy. besides this being reflected in many council conclusions and recommendations, we have also launched the innovative european teaching award 2021 to give credit to teachers for their work and to identify and promote outstanding teaching and learning practices developed through collaboration between schools within the erasmus+ programme. last but not least, the commission is taking careful note of the coverage of the teaching profession when checking the transposition and implementation of the existing legal instruments related to working conditions and fixed-term work, including infringements addressed to a few member states. now, i am really looking forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, we always say that education is the solution. dear colleagues, we say we are under a hybrid war of putin who is shooting fake news at us in the european union. that's true, and how do we protect ourselves from fake news? with education. as we always say, that education is paramount, that we need educated people who understand and are no longer easily manipulated by fake news. all good and wonderful. what are we gonna do about it? i mean, nothing. we have protests in the streets, we have had them in brussels, we have had them here in strasbourg, we have had farmers in romania, farmers, carriers. but do you know who first took to the streets and who very well started these protests of our disgruntled citizens? teachers, because we don't invest in education, we don't invest in teachers, we don't give them not only the respect they need and deserve, but we don't even give them the infrastructure to do their job. they're our soldiers in the war against putin's fake news, but we send them without bullets, without weapons and possibly on an empty stomach. and then we complain here in this very beautiful and wonderful parliament that, you see, god, we're losing the war on fake news, that our citizens don't trust us anymore, because, again, we're going back to education. we keep saying we don't have money, we let governments make fun of our teachers, we don't have competence, we don't have money. how can we not have money? we have a lot of money, but we need to stop giving them all kinds of crap, stop making unjustified purchases, and give money where it matters, to education and to teachers.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you very much for this initiative, which gives us the opportunity to talk about the difficult situation facing teachers throughout europe. i myself, as a professor, see in france year after year the difficulties and deterioration of our working conditions. if, as the french government wishes for our students, we were to form level groups with the european countries, france would unfortunately be in the group of students in difficulty and would therefore have a sufficiently closed horizon for progress. the solution, for our children and for our countries, is not segregation, it is not competition: the solution is cooperation. the solution is, in diversity, union. the commission is committed to making the european education area a reality by 2025. you little girl! we have two years left. france is one of the european countries where co-operation between colleagues is the weakest and classes are very numerous. france remains, despite all the talk about republican equality, one of the states where the gaps in achievement between students according to their social background are the strongest. so, rather than trying to make european teachers wear the uniform of liberal nationalism, let us give the means to a strong common ambition on education issues. the countries that have made the most progress in recent years are those that, like portugal, have chosen to invest heavily in education. these efforts must be supported by the union. let us enable teaching teams, everywhere in europe, to meet, share and cooperate. let us build a europe of the emancipation of our students! let us build a europe of the development of our teachers! let us build an education europe!
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i listen to you, i sometimes wonder what theater i have landed in, frankly. because this morning you come here shouting loudly that teachers are important, you see the lack of teachers, the poor condition of the school buildings, the too many students in each classroom, and, listening to you, i spontaneously say to myself, "ben chiche!" they got it! that's good! let us invest in our schools: better working conditions, more teachers, fewer students per class, etc. it's for the gallery, your statements! it's for the gallery! for what is it that you do, and all this hypocrisy? well, you're bringing back european rules that prohibit states from investing in schools and education. the european rules on austerity! the european budgetary rules, which will strangle the state budget. here in public, you come out here to show your support to teachers and students, but behind the scenes you put a rope around their necks. what a cynical person, frankly!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, madam commissioner, the participation of third countries sharing our core values and priorities in union programmes has a positive effect both in the achievements of such programmes and in our cooperation with like-minded partners. this is especially the case in the field of research and innovation, where international cooperation plays a key role in tackling global challenges and fostering mutually beneficial relations. therefore, association of third countries to horizon europe is something that we definitely welcome. however, as a single eu institution directly elected by citizens, we are also here to defend the parliament’s democratic prerogatives. and as it happens, these prerogatives cannot be fully exercised with the commission’s approach as regards the conclusion of international agreements related to the participation in union programmes. the current procedures do not allow the parliament to have meaningful consent. in our role of safeguarding the democratic and fundamental values of the union, we should and we must have a bigger say in these agreements. the negotiation, approval and implementation of them is not just a simple administrative procedure without any political connotation. issues like academic freedom or the need to uphold the climate targets and green deal objectives require parliamentary involvement. we welcome the proposal to enhance partnership through new zealand’s association with the horizon europe programme, and the same goes for the agreement with the faroe islands. but we have to make sure that there is the proper parliamentary scrutiny under a meaningful consent procedure. the proposed joint committee circumvents the parliament and undermines its capacity to fully exercise its powers. therefore, we urge the commission to finally launch negotiations on an interinstitutional agreement in order to allow for proper parliamentary oversight, democratic scrutiny and power of consent in association to union programmes.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, madam commissioner, as my colleague jean-lin lacapelle has pointed out in the text under discussion, a genuine parliamentary view of association agreements, particularly for horizon europe, is essential. in general, with regard to the participation of third country entities, i have long warned through a series of parliamentary initiatives about the risks to intellectual property. in this respect, the restrictions imposed on china for its participation in horizon europe seem to be a sign of common sense. this should be maintained in the joint roadmap for cooperation on security and reciprocity. the european union must move away from its naivety in a context of heightened global competition. finally, the presence of the western balkans in horizon europe is not new. however, the process of accession of the countries of the region to a series of european programmes or funding could be interpreted as a gradual integration into the european union, while the majority of my countrymen reject any enlargement of the european union to the balkans.
mr president, madam commissioner, you are actually bothered by our work. the european commission wants to take away our right to control, to look at agreements you make with other countries. is it because we can read? because yes, we can read, and so we looked a little at, for example, the association agreement you made with israel: a major support to israel, which saw europe become the first trading partner of the hebrew state. for example, 30% of the goods israel imports come from europe, and israel even has access to billions of european funds. but we know how to read, and we see in article 2 of this agreement that it demands respect for human rights. so, logically, when the international court of justice says there is a plausible risk that israel is committing genocide in gaza, what should you do? suspend this deal, stop this deal, because if you don't, you support and are complicit in israeli war crimes in gaza. but rather than suspend this agreement, commissioner, you want to silence us. you want to exclude us. we're not gonna shut up, we're not gonna let you do it. this complicity is unacceptable, and we will continue to say so.
