on behalf of the epp group. madam president, this debate can be conducted from at least two, even three perspectives. first, the prospect of international security and the security of international trade, knowing that a huge part of the world's trade traffic passes through the red sea. and here we have to state very clearly what the situation is. the so-called houthi group is a terrorist group that engages in piracy in the maritime territories of the world's most intense trade traffic, the world's most intense maritime. in this respect, although limited, a military response to these pirate acts is beyond question as a valid and adequate measure. it is always the appropriate measure against piracy that threatens global security and global commercial shipping. i am shocked to hear, by the way, and i'm shocked to hear it repeatedly from people i politically value as russian assets, that the attacks on the military capabilities of this pirate group are a problem for trade, not its piracy. but there is no doubt that we must look at this crisis from a humanitarian perspective, from the perspective of the lives and rights of the civilian population in yemen. and here again, we must note that the so-called huthi are a group directly sponsored, fully backed by the islamic terrorist regime in iran, who are enormously responsible for the ongoing civil war of over 10 years and for the hundreds of thousands of civilian casualties, peaceful yemeni citizens, and for the devastating famine that resulted from this civil war in yemen.
mr president, dear commissioner, a lot has been said during this debate about the benefits of social criteria in public procurements and reasonable arguments we've heard, and a lot has been already done to grant such award criteria. so i will focus on the risks they raise because there is no perfect solution in the economy, neither are social award criteria a perfect solution. first, it is the risk of discrimination against companies from less wealthy member states or member states with lower levels of trade union coverage of social bargaining. second, i must reiterate, any non-price criteria has a higher, often much, much higher corruption potential. and here, once again, we put at risk countries with less stable rule of law in our union, and we know from all our debates that such countries exist in in the european union and maybe more now than a few years ago. and by far the most and important risk that i would like to point out: often, not always, but often, social award criteria in public procurement have quite a high inflation potential. so they might end up providing better income for few and higher prices for many, at the expense of fair competition on the market. and here i must reiterate, finally, that one thing we as a union and our economy, now and in the years to come, at least in the couple of years to come, what we cannot afford is pro-inflation measures, because we have taken many such measures during this and previous terms, and we are facing a huge crisis of the purchasing power of our population, with all its political impact.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this debate, which i believe shows the importance – but also complexity – of the eu-india relationship. there is no doubt that a stronger eu-india partnership has a lot of potential on multiple levels – prosperity and security for our citizens, and society's, contribution to responding to global threats and challenges, such as regional peace and stability, the digital and green transitions, and also on reducing inequality and on improving global governance. some of these areas already see notable progress, while in some others there is still scope to do more. and your report – and also this debate today – gives us very useful guidance in this respect, including on the sensitive issues, like the situation for human rights, the status of religious minorities, and so on. but i wish to conclude on the following note. this year is an electoral year, both in the eu and in india. and our joint strategy, the roadmap 2025, is coming to a close next year. with these circumstances in mind, together with the unfolding geopolitical and economic developments, i agree with your recommendation that there is a need to start reflecting without delay on the updated – or future – priorities for our strategic partnership with india. the commission is ready to do so and is looking forward to continuing our discussions with you on this topic.
rapporteur. – madam president and dear colleagues, thank you. it has been a pleasure to work with you on this report and listen to you today. the various topics mentioned in this report – from human rights to security – have to be taken very seriously and raised in all levels and all encounters by eu representatives. this work is now needed more than ever to increase the wellbeing and safety and security of our citizens, and a better future for all in india and in the eu. we share knowledge on these issues mentioned and the visions for the eu-india partnership. the consensus achieved in this report was mentioned many times by colleagues and i am grateful for this cooperation. now we count on the high representative to demonstrate that our recommendations build the eu’s position for the forthcoming high summit and all the future eu policy towards india, including the new eu roadmap after 2025. thank you all so much. i am grateful for the cooperation, and also the cooperation of every activist, journalist, policymaker and expert that we have heard in this process. and i hope that we can continue the cooperation for a better future for us all.
the discussion is over. the vote will be delivered tomorrow, wednesday 17 january 2024.
the following report, prepared by the foreign affairs committee on behalf of željana zovko, on the recommendation of the european parliament to the council, the commission and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the role of diplomacy in preventing the resolution of blocked conflicts around the world is on the agenda. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 and in accordance with article 21 thereof.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, this report is calling for lessons learned where we have made some progress and is also keen to rethinking our policies in order to be better prepared, more coordinated and more focussed on preventing future crises. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues, shadow rapporteurs from other political groups for their serious and constructive approach during the negotiations on this report. with the russian war against ukraine, we have a war that is threatening our countries as well. the war in the middle east and the situation in the red sea are a clear reminder that we have set aside all these conflicts without addressing the consequences that we have to be dealing with – from ukraine to venezuela, from the south caucasus to the western balkans, crises are popping up and seeking immediate response, for which we need strong coordination in this current, weakened, multilateral world. ten years after the establishment of the european external action service, discussions are still ongoing about the lack of a single voice related to the eu’s external policy and the european union’s global role. political leaders have still not found the visionary approach to start building that railroad to prevent conflicts, to fully align and act as a caretaker of the tragedies that we are facing in this volatile world. the global order is changing rapidly. emerging powers are confronting traditional players. new technologies and further global globalisation are leading to increased international competition. in recent years, our achievements have deteriorated, our presence weakened, and our actions left without concrete results. just think about the western balkans, africa, the south caucasus, cyprus, northern ireland, afghanistan and the middle east that encouraged other actors to take advantage of our lack of interest, putting themselves in an active and malign role in our own backyard. dear colleagues, we have to ask ourselves the question why has the eu failed on preventing violent outbursts throughout the years? exactly this thought was on my mind when i initiated this parliamentary report in the committee on foreign affairs, with the intention of launching a ‘lessons learned’ exercise on the european efforts in preventive diplomacy over the years. the report is based on the need to improve the visibility of the european union in this field of analysis, with six main areas that can be upgraded and improved for the prevention of conflicts around the world. it emphasises the importance to learn from missed opportunities and draw lessons from past experiences. the text also reiterates that the key focus should be on strengthening the eu early warning system, advocating proactive risk analysis and continuous evaluation to improve effectiveness, underscoring the need for interventions tailored to specific contexts. the report highlights the importance of aid responding to countries’ unique cultural, historical and political contexts. it points out that it is crucial to take into account the local cultural and historical background when appointing eu special representatives and envoys to avoid controversies in conflict areas and their role as impartial mediators. furthermore, the need for a thorough evaluation of their work is emphasised, including the european parliament’s supervision of their initiatives, results and contribution to preventive diplomacy. despite being the largest donor of development aid, the results of this investment in public diplomacy are almost insignificant and often overridden by false narratives presented by other major powers present in developing countries. the adopted text also emphasises that international coordination in conflict prevention is crucial and calls on the eu to strengthen cooperation with other organisations on this issue. my hope is that all these recommendations will bring the european union one step closer to becoming a more visible actor in conflict prevention and resolution worldwide. the fear of conflict is easy to be put to flame again if the seed of hope does not replace the flame of hatred that is left behind, and rebuilding bridges and finding solutions for frozen conflicts and unhealed grievances is the seed for preventing future wars and tragedies. i count on your support.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would first like to thank madam zovko, the rapporteur, and the other honourable members who have actively contributed to this report, also on behalf of the high representative, vice-president borrell. we know well that this house is a strong advocate of eu preventive diplomacy and actively contributes to shape the eu’s conflict prevention practice. the nature of conflict is shifting. our time is increasingly marked by geopolitical rivalry and a resurgence of inter-state conflict. russia’s war of aggression against ukraine is only one example of a return of violent tensions and major wars between nation states that we all hoped belonged to the past. with this geopolitical recalibration, we are also seeing a multitude of external actors weighing in on domestic and local conflicts, which increases the complexity of the conflict. the war in gaza is a case in point, but so are the conflicts in yemen, syria, libya, sudan and in the sahel – all stark reminders of the proxy dynamics at play. the accelerated geopolitical agenda forces us to put the focus on tackling the latest crises, but we should not forget the importance of looking ahead and trying to prevent conflict. according to the world bank, each euro invested in prevention saves an estimated eur 4 to the international community – up to eur 65 billion a year. as a global actor for peace, conflict prevention is a key element of the eu’s values and a core foreign policy objective. we therefore will continue working to reinforce our action in all stages of the conflict cycle, particularly in its early steps before eruption, including through preventive diplomacy. at the same time, we need more efficient early warning systems and, more importantly, early action to avoid kinetic action down the road. therefore, we welcome the recommendations included in your draft report, which are very relevant. drawing from them, let me highlight some of the ongoing efforts to further develop the eu’s toolbox to better leverage its conflict prevention and peace mediation engagements. since 2014, the eu conflict early warning system, based on statistics and intelligence, identifies countries at risk of conflict. we are currently adapting our data modelling to the new reality of conflicts, making it more dynamic and reflecting subnational trends. thanks to the european parliament, the ndici-global europe regulation included a requirement to develop conflict analysis in fragile and conflict-affected countries. since 2020, the eu has developed more than 55 conflict analysis screenings – an unprecedented effort no other international organisation has undertaken. our conflict analyses shape development cooperation programming and help to better plan and design eu csdp actions. a good example is the analysis conducted ahead of the eu security and defence initiative in support of west african countries of the gulf of guinea, which includes a civilian pillar with a strong preventive focus. most recently, we have reshaped our toolset to make it more efficient and better aligned with eu foreign policy needs. we included new types of conflict analysis with regional automatic focus, such as electoral violence, gender, hybrid threats or economics of conflict. better shaped scenario analysis also feeds into strategic foresight. let me also refer briefly to peace mediation – an essential means for preventive diplomacy. we are supporting peace mediation and dialogue in about 25 conflicts worldwide, predominantly in africa and the mena region, in many different forms. in some contexts, the eu acts as a facilitator. this is the case in the belgrade-pristina dialogue or the nuclear discussion with iran. as you know, high representative/vice-president borrell personally engages in all of this. even though these processes are not linear and successes are not always easy to measure, mediation is without doubt a cost-effective tool. in other cases, the eu supports international, regional or local mediation and dialogue actors, be it international organisations or independent mediation organisations. precisely because we know peace efforts need the involvement of the whole international community, the eu has developed conflict prevention and mediation partnerships. of course, we work very closely with the un – for instance in yemen, libya or syria – but we increasingly coordinate also with the osce, with the african union or ecowas. all this is very accurately reflected in your report, and we are glad to see that we can continue counting on the european parliament to consolidate the eu toolset and our efforts on preventive diplomacy – from conflict analysis to conflict prevention, peace mediation and dialogue.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. the world is moving more and more into a phase of confrontation. more and more actors are looking for confrontation. it is cooperation that has made europe strong, inward. and it is also cooperation that europe is to contribute to this world. i therefore thank my colleague željana zovko and all the co-negotiators for this report for focusing on how eu global policy, eu geopolitics, eu foreign policy could be much better coordinated. for years, if not decades, there has been talk of the european union speaking with one voice. but now it's really high time she does that. the new period will ultimately provide the opportunity to re-establish this. more members of the european commission must be external. this will also remove the pressure of regulation and overregulation and prohibitory policies from within as more commissioners promote europe's strength from the outside. this will help europe's freedom inward. and then it will be important to work more closely with the elected members of parliament so that the strength of parliamentary diplomacy is not to speak as diplomatically as diplomats in the true sense of the word, but to be able to go further, to speak more clearly so that it can also be used. at the same time, europe must not remain naive, not appease, not incite aggressors who seek cooperation, but on the basis of clear values.
on behalf of the renew group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council, and we are now in favour of the proposal. i think the zovko report is very good and we all support it. but we find that in many cases we are outnumbered by developments. we made energy leaks to putin while he was preparing for the second phase of the invasion of ukraine. the question of the conflict between azerbaijan and armenia was discussed in the negotiations, but we could not prevent war. we are also unprepared for the new crisis in the middle east. in order to bridge the gap between the good theory we all subscribe to, the preventive diplomacy and the policy we are pursuing, we must strengthen european defence cooperation, promote the early signing of trade and economic agreements, and show the possibility of mild force and even military intervention. the commission has already decided to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to the same extent as those of the member states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, preventive diplomacy means action before a conflict escalates, and it’s quite difficult, actually, to get resources and attention for conflicts that have not yet escalated. we have to be aware of that. and just to bring a concrete example, i mean, in bosnia, we have massive tensions between ethnic groups, mainly steered by mr dodik’s republika srpska. i think we should not wait until this conflict escalates, but really put our efforts into easing the tensions as much as possible. we, the european union, consider ourselves a power for peace, but that also comes with an obligation. it comes with the obligation to put attention and resources, to prevent civilian victims, to prevent human suffering, and to prevent destabilisation, also through an accelerating climate crisis, together with diplomatic services, together with civil society and together with the local population. there’s a lack of preventive diplomacy and that is the outcome we can see in and around the europe in the moment. so let’s learn the lessons of this and put preventive diplomacy at the core of our diplomatic services. i think we should do the learnings and move on onto this. thanks a lot to željana zovko for good leadership on this report. i think we found very good compromises, which we greens will support.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. one of the main reasons for the creation of the european union was to create lasting peace so that there would be no more wars in europe. it's a pity that today, original ideas and actions have diverged. slowly, the war in ukraine has been going on for two years, which we could have avoided with proper diplomatic and conflict prevention measures, but the eu has failed immensely. and even more painful is that despite the hundreds of thousands of victims, very few of us are seeking peace as soon as possible. the situation in ukraine is very serious and after the war is over, it will take a long time to resolve the consequences. hundreds of thousands were forced to flee their homelands, families were torn apart, many weapons were handed over to irresponsible hands. for example, in december, at a local council meeting in kerek, carpathian republic, a member of parliament threw three hand grenades at his colleagues. several were seriously injured, two were killed. meanwhile, the eu is seeking to increase arms supplies rather than peace-building, and hungary is under constant attack for its stance on peace and diplomatic dialogue. and all wars are usually over at the negotiating table. time is running out. there are already too many victims and too many losses. that's why we need peace as soon as possible.
madam president, without preventive diplomacy, no diplomacy is possible. it protects against fatal mistakes. the contribution of ms. zovko's report is the thesis of the need to improve our understanding of the local, historical, political, religious and cultural context in order to prevent conflict and build trust. our experience with the minsk agreements, for example, has shown that we do not understand the aggressive russian people's psychology and the purpose of today's political doctrine of the kremlin, and the war has escalated. the success of preventive diplomacy in the middle east will depend on knowledge of the historical-religious contexts and the folk psychology of the region. preventive diplomacy is also needed for enlargement policy. it should help, for example, macedonian society to overcome the hate speech against bulgaria and macedonian bulgarians dangerous legacy of the communist period. to this end, the truth about the centuries-old bulgarian cultural and historical heritage in this country must be known. preventive diplomacy must not allow modern policies to be carried out on the basis of retrograde views.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, let’s start with the most important thing i didn’t hear till now in the debate. no job is a quality job in time of inflation. no job could be a quality job if it buys less in february than in january. by the way, we as public authorities, neither in brussels nor in our national governments, we do not create quality jobs. it is business that creates quality jobs, and what we can do is fairly simple. we can cut red tape in order to allow business to thrive. we can provide for education. as i started, i will finish with the same message. last but not least, especially we here in the european institutions, we can guarantee in the next five years that no more pro-inflation policies will be promoted in this house.
mr president, in a changing geopolitical world, a more competitive europe also requires the creation of quality jobs. to achieve this, we need to combine efforts between legislators, workers, employers and the organisations that represent them. together we must focus on more opportunities for labour market development, which requires investment. quality jobs are equivalent to stability and development opportunities. they not only support economic society but also ensure a decent and high standard of living for every european citizen and are a key factor in overcoming the demographic crisis. i believe that europe can create jobs that are of high quality and meet the challenges of the future. they must undoubtedly include broad social protection, development opportunities, decent pay, job security and equal opportunities.
madam president, for months our farmers have been warning that they are in crisis. for months, they've been warning you about the complex rules and heavy red tape. if they are not heard, we risk putting europe and its citizens in food insecurity, even in crisis. the ecological transition can happen with realistic measures and tolerable requirements for european farmers. a new beginning, a new vision of the union's agricultural policies, based on dialogue with the agricultural community and scientific data, is needed. mr commissioner, i call once again for the equalization of subsidies to bulgarian and other farmers. a europe of equal opportunities also includes full convergence of direct payments. the good future of the eu, which we all aspire to, cannot happen without our farmers.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. today we are entering the terrifying world of digital reality, where the loud cries of hate and excitement echo. social media platforms, our daily companions, are the stage for a worrying increase in online hate speech. our digital natives are the invisible victims of this growing threat. the seriousness of hate speech is that the dangers and consequences of the internet either become visible too late or remain completely hidden. psychological damage is caused, which often ends in the loss of a young human life. the culprits often get away with it. i would like to emphasize the intersectional approach here. hate speech respects no boundaries, stretches across generations and primarily affects minority groups. as a parliament, it is time to take a clear stand. hate crime of any kind must not have any place in our society. it undermines not only the eu's core values but also the rights we stand for. our demand is clear: the council must recognise hate speech and hate crime as eu criminal offences. we need to take clear legal steps to stop online hatred and ensure that those responsible are held accountable.
- madam speaker, please. if half the population refrains from expressing their opinion on social media because of fear of threats and hatred. what happens to a democratic society when not everyone feels that they can participate? women journalists choose to exclude certain topics, young women drop out of politics, and women's rights activists witness recurring death threats. hate against women is clearly organized by nationalists and extremists. when women report the problem, they are asked by the council to take a break from the internet. it's the same kind of advice women are given about how to dress for an outing so they don't get raped. the guilt must be placed where it belongs, with the man who rapes and the man who hates. we politicians have a responsibility to create legislation and resources to combat hatred, but also to contribute to a good debate climate that shuts out hatred and threats.
madam president, this is an attempt to criminalize the personal opinion of people who disagree with the bolshevik ideology of the ruling class. specific identities are being defended here, and any attempt to criticize them is being defined as hatred and fascism. because it's much easier to throw your opponents in jail. why is hate speech only so hateful when it's directed at minorities or homosexuals? is there no hatred directed at heterosexuals or christianity? this is not a matter of concern to 90% of people in the european union. they, like me, are interested in whether someone is honest, honest, compassionate, and compassionate. political bias, sexual orientation, or even ethnicity are too personal. that's why this request is not for the people, but for the politicians. the european community needs justice, not privilege for minority groups.
a uachtaráin, as our rapporteur, the esteemed professor and the commissioner said, geothermal energy is a tremendous yet often-overlooked resource. it is the local, secure and renewable energy source that can play a pivotal role in decarbonising the heating sector and meeting our climate and energy goals in certain areas. the heating sector, responsible for half of europe’s energy demand, is a major contributor to greenhouse gas emissions, with over 60% relying on fossil fuels. decarbonising this sector is crucial, and geothermal district heating provides a scalable and affordable solution for many regions, cities and communities across europe. we need simplified permitting procedures, access to sub-surface data, and support for low temperature district heating networks, to make geothermal energy a cornerstone in our clean energy strategy. in my constituency, the cities of cork, waterford and limerick have enormous potential for district heating networks and i have discussed this with many stakeholders across the ireland south region. the commission must take a leadership role to make geothermal across europe more than we have at the moment.
- madam president, please! i'm not going to say anything. first of all, i would like to thank dr krasnodębsky for the report he has prepared, which i think is very much in the right place, because geothermal energy certainly has a great future. i come from slovenia, which is also known for its rich hot water heaters and we have quite a few good examples of geothermal exploitation in slovenia. about one third of slovenian tourism is health tourism, where geothermal heat is used to heat the thermal water facilities. we have successful examples of tomato, fruit, vegetable cultivation. we also have the largest producer of orchids in europe in prekmurja, which produces orchids based on geothermal energy. we should certainly make more efforts, and more financial measures, from the european union, too, because when we compare it to the sun and the wind, we can safely say that geothermal energy is abandoned and is a great, untapped opportunity. however, it is also essential to make the procedures for obtaining documents faster than they are today.
madam president, geothermal energy is one of the most accessible local energy sources and has been known and used for thousands of years. geothermal energy could meet over 75% of europe's heating and cooling energy needs and over 15% of electricity consumption by 2040. it also has enormous potential in the production of heat energy and if used properly, it can dramatically improve the energy efficiency of our buildings. it can provide clean energy to power sustainable production in various sectors of industry. the crisis caused by the leap in our energy bills is showing us that we must use every available and profitable source we have access to. we must use this local resource and expect the european commission to present a strategy for its development as soon as possible.
mrs president, today is another social debate and it is important because ensuring a decent life and solving the problems of europeans goes through solving the social problems. a successful and green digital transition requires developed skills, qualifications, requalifications. this means providing opportunities for all europeans to upgrade and develop their knowledge and skills. we need to invest in education and training that reflects the current needs of business. together with the industry, we're creating programs that provide practical skills and knowledge. a special focus on people living in rural areas is needed. now is the time to harness the potential of the digital age, to emphasize adult education, to help our youth and the most vulnerable. investments in education and science are key to creating an environment where talent thrives.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the successive reforms of the common organization of the markets and in particular the latter have not contributed as desirably as it would be to improving the income of the sector, ensuring the stability of the markets, promoting the improvement of the marketing of fishery products. this last reform dismantled some of the few regulatory instruments in existence at the time, paving a disastrous path for numerous fleet segments, especially small-scale fishing. a profound reform of the wto is therefore required, which will strengthen public instruments for market intervention and regulation, ensuring the income of the sector, market stability, improved marketing of fishery products and increased added value. it is necessary to ensure that states have instruments and forms of intervention in the chain, such as setting maximum margins of intermediation for each agent in the chain, and to provide for minimum financial compensation, which allows for the costs of landing all unwanted catches, which do not have a commercial outflow capable of covering those costs, or for the periods of defence.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear colleagues, i’ll be very brief. first of all, let me thank ms bilbao and the pech committee for an excellent report, where we, i think, fundamentally agree on the things that need to be done and need to be improved. so we commit ourselves to further work with all stakeholders along the supply chain to ensure that things are swiftly improved.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, thank you for your answer and your position, but we do disagree on one point: we need to re-establish storage aid mechanisms in order to address future crisis problems. it's not enough with what we have. i would say to mrs roose that this parliament, the fisheries committee and this report do not say that plant products should not be used; what we are denouncing and saying is that plant products should not be fraudulently labelled, which is what we are seeing lately throughout the european market. transparency and traceability to respect the rights of fishermen and consumers alike. and one last message must be put to an end: the european sector has been experiencing a campaign of disrepute for years, which is not condoned either by its efforts to scale up or by the innovations it uses to improve its working techniques or by the data that prove it is an example of sustainability. nor is it with the evidence that, thanks to our agreements with third countries, it contributes to the spread of these values in the world's seas. this evolution of the ocm fisheries regulation is also a first-class tool to address with greater transparency, data, control and professionalism the curse that insults the thousands of professionals who gamble their lives at sea to bring high quality components to the union diet. these improvements more data, more information, more certifications reinforce the contract and confidence that professionals in this sector have with consumers and enable them to choose genuinely sustainable products on the market. the community institutions have another step forward with this regulation in order to align themselves with a sector which has faced the challenge of triple sustainability - economic, social and environmental - at the forefront of many others, and which cannot continue to accept campaigns that ignore this trajectory or measures that need much more argumentative support than a populist slogan. this reform of the cmo, the reform of the cfp, the new control regulation are being made, are objective data that should clear any doubt about what, how, why and with whom they compete and who our fishermen and our industry set an example for.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 18 january 2024. (the sitting was suspended for a short time)
let's move on to the vote. (for the results of the votes and other details on them: see minutes)
rapporteur. – madam president, i will be very short, don’t worry. so, dear colleagues, the claims regulation applies to voluntary, nutritional and health claims on food products and food supplements in all commercial communication. the objective of the regulation is a high level of consumer protection and smooth functioning of the internal market. we want to protect european consumers, their safety, their health, but let’s be honest, also their wallet. the regulation has been enforced for more than 15 years, and i think we can agree that it has significantly contributed to protecting consumers from false and misleading health and nutrition claims on food. but still today, consumers continue to be exposed to unauthorised and misleading claims. the report we vote on today addresses key challenges in the implementation and suggests the regulation might need to be updated. so, we have three issues. very shortly, consumers continue to be exposed to very unhealthy foods with authorised claims because 15 years after the regulation came into force, the foreseen nutrition thresholds for such claims have still not been established. secondly, there is an on-hold list with over 2 000 claims on botanicals. due to a lack of data, efsa stopped evaluating these claims and the commission put the claims on hold over a decade ago. this anomaly needs to be addressed. and thirdly, and lastly, online sales of food and supplements with unauthorised claims are booming. more cooperation and guidance are needed for successful implementation of this regulation in the online environment. i would like also to use this opportunity to thank the different stakeholders which provided us with input and as well to all my colleagues from other groups for constructive collaboration. thank you!
the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests, as you know, is voted on every year. i want to thank the cont commission from the outset, which voted by a large majority for our position, and i also want to thank the shadow rapporteurs. that doesn't mean we didn't find things to write in this report. and so, in the revenue and expenditure sections, we're seeing an increase in fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities in 2022 and, of course, an increase in detection rates. unfortunately, the european commission did not intervene in the revision of the threshold of eur 10 million for transnational vat fraud, as it should have reduced it, in order to allow the european public prosecutor's office to investigate. it means there must be changes in the coming period. i also want to thank the court of auditors, olaf, eurojust, europol, who have worked together to detect and prevent fraud risks. at the same time, i would like to stress, and i have stressed in this report as rapporteur, that we must monitor the proper spending of the european union's money, which is actually citizens' not only in the member states but also in the european institutions. as regards the eu's anti-fraud architecture, i recommend in the report good cooperation and coordination between all its divisions and, of course, a holistic and outcome-oriented approach to combating fraud, more demand, more transparency, because we have faced a lack of transparency from all institutions. i thank you and hope you will vote, as the cont committee voted on this report, which is very important for protecting financial interests.
rapporteur. – madam president, the united nations negotiations on the legally binding treaty on business and human rights were commenced already in 2014. some eu member states have taken part, but unfortunately, the eu as a bloc has been absent. now we have momentum. the long-awaited eu corporate sustainability due diligence directive is nearly finalised, and this is the momentum for the eu’s participation in this critically important un process. our goal must be to ensure a level playing field for companies through global standards. so this report aims to invite the commission and external action service to shape and adopt an eu negotiation mandate, and we want to provide some elements for an ambitious mandate.
madam president, it is a nice storytale to start with a ‘boo’ from you guys over there. we’re talking here about a very big humanitarian catastrophe and a very big conflict. you all remember in october this parliament stood strong. we made it, we put forward – almost with unanimity – a strong resolution, in which the council and the commission didn’t succeed. on tuesday evening, i negotiated, we negotiated, for more than three hours. we negotiated yesterday more than two hours. and this whole morning, i tried to convince all parties to arrive again at a strong resolution with unanimity. i don’t block anybody, but i want to make a proposal, an oral amendment, which i think convinces the left and the right, and which makes a strong statement. i will now read the amendment. it is about article 1. it is about amendment 12. come on, guys! it is about amendment 12 of the ecr, amendment 26 of the epp, and about my own amendment. i want to make one proposal. listen and then vote with your heart and look at the text: ‘calls for a permanent ceasefire and to restart efforts towards a political solution.’ at the same time, colleagues, ‘calls for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages and in a hand-in-hand process’, and we demand ‘the dismantling of the terrorist organisation hamas’. all is in there. vote it, and we have a resolution with a strong majority.
the vote is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 13:02)
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the texts adopted are available. are there any comments? as there are not, the minutes are approved.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission by anja hazekamp, clare daly, mick wallace, stelios kouloglou, jadwiga wiśniewska, malte gallée, martin buschmann, sylwia spurek, róża thun und hohenstein, pascal durand, francisco guerreiro, david cormand on behalf of the left group – gue/ngl on recent eu-audits identifying that uruguayan and argentinian meat from horses with unreliable sworn declarations and unknown drug history is entering the eu (2024/2514(rsp)) (o-000054/2023 - b9-0004/24).
the european union imports thousands of tonnes of horse meat from argentina and uruguay every year. since 2012, international animal welfare organisations such as the tierschutzbund zurich have repeatedly provided evidence of major welfare problems and abuse of horses in these countries. sick and injured horses are not cared for and are cruelly treated and neglected. they're being hunted down with fire, with power shots and with dogs. all this is contrary to european animal welfare legislation. in addition to serious animal welfare problems, traceability problems also exist. uruguayan gangs steal horses to offer them to slaughterhouses that produce horse meat for the european union. horse owners who searched for their stolen animal sometimes found their horse in collecting centers or slaughterhouses. in addition, uruguayan police reports confirm that horse smuggling from brazil to uruguay is taking place. in addition, there is a major problem with banned drugs such as phenylbutazone or testosterone. it's not possible to trace whether horses had these drugs before they ended up in loose slaughterhouses or trading centers. owner statements are unreliable or sometimes absent. this is not only the case for civil society organisations, as dg sante's own audit service has already shown in 2018. in october last year dg sante again found that the welfare of horses in south america is not guaranteed and the safety of meat is not guaranteed. however, this horse meat still ends up in the european union. for example, unsuspecting consumers who buy a fried chicken at the corner snack bar, unaware that they are buying dubious and possibly unsafe argentine horse meat instead of beef. commissioner, in the eu animals that have had testosterone or other banned medicines are no longer allowed to be slaughtered. they are excluded from the food chain. why are you importing the wrong horse meat from uruguay and argentina? in fact, the commission wants to free up the trade in horse meat with south america even more and reduce controls! the commission has already answered our written questions. is ignoring environmental, food security, food safety and animal welfare rules a foreshadowing of what we can expect if mercosur continues? these problems have been going on for a long time, at least 12 years, and parliament has asked written questions on this subject several times since. in 2021, this parliament called for a resolution to stop the import of defective horse meat. why does the commission ignore this call from parliament and the findings of its own audit team? is mercosur really so important that europe is no longer concerned with our own health and the health of animals? and if the answer is no, please stop importing horse meat! finally, in south america, horses are not only slaughtered for their meat: pregnant women are also once again robbed of their blood alive. and that is what is happening for the european market to make pmsg a fertility product for the european livestock industry. the production of pmsg causes major animal welfare problems, such as structural excess blood loss and abortion of unborn calves. this production is pure animal cruelty and, in this case too, the european parliament has repeatedly called for a ban. in fact, in the regulation on veterinary medicinal products, parliament and the council have ordered the commission to adopt legislation on good manufacturing practices for these veterinary medicinal products before 29 january 2025. can the commission confirm that it is prohibiting the import, production and use of pmsg as soon as possible and thereby ending the horrible blood farms in south america and elsewhere in the world?
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i want to thank you for the parliamentary questions submitted on the issue of horsemeat imported from uruguay and argentina. the questions raised concerning food safety and animal welfare are key policy issues for the commission and, of course, for the public and address matters that have always been taken very seriously. the specific issues that you have raised, such as residues of veterinary medicines, animal welfare, illegal cross-border movement and traceability, were all identified during the audits the commission services have conducted in these two countries. the identified shortcomings are the basis of recommendations made in the respective reports. in response, the authorities from both countries have provided written guarantees that appropriate corrective actions are being taken. the action plans include clear timelines for implementing a system of individual identification and traceability of horses. they also include actions to prevent the use of testosterone in horses intended for export, and measures to improve animal welfare. the proposed horse traceability improvements will address the risk of smuggling identified by the uruguayan authorities. we are closely working with the authorities in these countries to ensure these measures are fully implemented. in parallel, we maintain systems to assess how exporting countries monitor their products for the presence of veterinary medicinal residues. the commission is assured that the actions proposed by both countries to address the shortcomings would, if fully implemented, mean that the certificates can be issued in line with the relevant guarantees, ensuring the appropriate level of food safety. we will remain in close contact with the authorities of uruguay and argentina to ensure that only products that are in compliance with the eu requirements on imports are in place on the eu market. we will closely monitor the implementation of the action plans and any non-compliances that are identified in the future.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. i'd like to tell you a story about the farmer helmut, the horseman laura and her horse, the whirlwind. laura has been an enthusiastic horseman. her horse whirlwind and they were really best friends for years. they've been competing all over the country, they've been on the road, and they couldn't get away from each other. but one night, laura heard a strange sound from the barn. she didn't get up and look, no, she went back to bed, and the next morning the whirlwind was gone. the whirlwind was stolen, and laura had no idea where it had gone. she was very, very sad about it and could never build up her passion for riding again like she did with whirlwind. but what happened to the whirlwind was not that it was being cared for by another rider or another rider. no, whirlwind was killed and slaughtered and the meat was shipped to europe. and that's exactly what happens with about 13,500 tons of meat from argentina coming to us every year. the peasant helmut, who has a small farm and is happy every time he goes to the slaughter with one of his cows, because he knows he can feed the whole village with it. there's a small snack in the village. in this snack, people can buy bulletins, with potatoes, or just with fries. but one day helmut realizes that no one wants to buy his meat anymore. there's a much, much cheaper offer from the supermarket around the corner, which now serves the snack. it makes helmut very, very sad, and the farmer gets angry. we in europe are faced with the task of protecting our citizens from racing horses landing on our plates. we have a responsibility to our citizens to ensure that food is of high quality. and if we continue these purchasing practices as we are doing with countries like argentina right now, then we cannot guarantee that we can continue to support our local, rules-abiding agriculture. and i think it's extremely important right now that we send a clear signal that we're taking care of the work of the farmers who are fully committed to their livestock, to their land, that we really appreciate it and don't let it get undermined by these dumped products.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, i want you to not wonder why our farmers are protesting all over europe. this european union approach has ruined european livestock farming. you imposed extremely strict rules and standards on our manufacturers, which has raised costs immensely. in that case, it's not fair, perhaps, to protect low-quality imports from abroad. it's cheap meat from uruguay, stuffed with some kind of garbage, i don't even call it substances. why wasn't that prevented? he obviously has interests to protect him. i turn to some parliamentary groups and wonder which countries and political groups in this parliament are benefiting from such a disruption to our production? this is not an isolated case, and why has no one stopped the import of lamb from new zealand, first question, and who controls it? why is the so-called macedonian lamb, which is actually imported from albania, not controlled at all and has absolutely no quality control? it is unacceptable for livestock farmers in the european union to be slaughtered in this way. if we keep this up, i promise you, the strikes will be your least problem, because there are riots coming.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i listened very carefully to your questions and concerns, and agree that these are important issues. as it has been already made clear, we are committed to ensure the correct implementation of eu rules in this area and to maintain food safety standards for our own citizens. the best way forward is to monitor the implementation of the corrective measures that argentina and uruguay have committed to put in place to ensure that only products that are in compliance with the eu requirements on imports are placed on the eu market. this is very important and this is what we will do.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
i am convinced that the report is not in the interests of the european union and the european parliament, and that the report is not in the interests of the european union. it's just about the kind of stuff that people don't want to hear that people don't like us. things like that, which are about extended families, people who think we should be forced to change our cultural code, and when we're opposed, they say it's hate speech or something. the european union is founded on free states, or at least it was until recently, and there is freedom of speech, of belief and of reason and of thought. well, hey, somebody coughs or laughs, but something's happening. i hope he's alive and well. but anyway, this whole hate speech thing is politically incorrect, so we voted against it.
madam president, i strongly opposed this request to extend the list of crimes committed at eu level to include hate speech and hate crimes. the very idea of this report is unnatural to me. what we're saying cannot be qualified as hate speech unless it's directed at certain minorities or protected groups of people. this is not equality. i personally have no claims, i can easily hate or love anyone, regardless of their gender, ethnicity or other affiliation. most of the people i hate are actually straight. if i want to criticize ursula von der leyen, macron, borel, charles michel and others, even though i'm not sure of their sexual orientation, i should still have that right. that's not hate speech. otherwise, we're only talking about censorship. besides, there's no definition of what hate language is. i'm not inciting anyone to kill anyone. i'm giving my opinion.
madam president, what does it take to wake the eu up? what does it take to get ye to listen? you didn’t listen in october. your watery words, along with the thumbs up from von der leyen, were then taken as permission to commit genocide. since then, over 24 000 palestinians have been killed, hundreds upon hundreds of thousands displaced, all in danger of famine. so you think you’d have learned. but no, you’ve learned nothing: no calls for an unconditional cease fire, giving the idf the thumbs up for another killing spree. but it gets worse, we now have a european parliament resolution where the majority of its members refuse to support rulings from the international court of justice. shame on you! there’s already blood on your hands. when you’re watching the carnage on your tv screens over the next month, remember that you refused to shout ‘stop’!
colleague, can i remind you that wearing banners or flags is not allowed in the chamber. that concludes the item.
madam president, i voted strongly against this pointless, foolish and unreasonable report because unlike the situation in belgium, france, germany, the netherlands, as it is called today, the situation in hungary is decent and normal and close to normal. there, in hungary, the government and the people, and the government are working to have hungarian national self-awareness, hungarian society, to have their hungarian family, hungarian children, hungarian children and to develop. and i don't understand, i don't accept, and i never will accept the desire in this room, filled with people with strange understandings, so to speak, to try to impose some guilt on hungary and the people of hungary. the european union, let me remind you, was a union of free states united in diversity. it becomes a soviet union, it becomes a european soviet union, where the brussels dictatorship will tell who what pants to wear. no, thank you.
madam president, i too voted against this resolution because it is an attempt to overthrow a sovereign state with european money. hungarian citizens have the right to access these funds, as do the french, for example. by blocking them for political reasons, you blackmail them and tell them to do what we like, not what you want. the blockade of erasmus+ for example because i am on the culture committee and vice-chairman of the commission is mainly about young people and is trying to change their thinking. this is an absolute interference in the democratic process. you cannot punish the hungarians for legally and by a huge majority electing their own government. if any other country, like the united states or russia, for example, does such an intervention, you'll call them "imperialists". but when the commission does, you use a completely different language like 'shared values and democracy'. remember, as colleague jambazki said, about another union called the soviet union? then the orders came from moscow, now you want them to come from brussels. the soviet union.
mr president, dear leftists, it’s been two years of putin’s attack, and what have you done? nothing. what have you done, mr weber, as germany, what have you done? five thousand helmets, that’s your achievement. oh, no: you built nord stream 2 and then you blocked the sanctions. that is the fact. what about belgium? you are responsible for blocking sanctions on russian diamonds, when we, the conservative polish government, were fighting for it. what about austria? austria was blocking 12 packages of sanctions because one of their banks was on the list of the war sponsors. what about the rest? all you did was just blocking sanctions, and poland was first to help when the russians attacked: 17 million people crossed the polish-ukrainian border. so do not lecture us about humanity, about asylums, about refugees, because we do know what the refugee is and what illegal migrant is. i was the first mep to see massive graves, how many of you visited ukraine? how many of you visited lampedusa? i was the one to see illegal migrants. so let’s make a deal: you take illegal migrants, we’re going to take those who were attacked by... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. it is important and right that the european union supports ukraine in its self-defense struggle. it is existential for the european union, for europe, for the whole free world. and the year 2024 will show that the european union must do this on its own. at the same time, it is important to note what the president of the commission said on 1 march 2022, immediately after the start of the war of aggression, at our special session here in the european parliament, namely that we must have the hand extended to the other russia, as she said. we just don't know the other russia yet, no face, no name. and that's not what 2024 will bring. we must stand together, we must stand for ukraine. we must not give the people of ukraine the false impression that this will soon end or that there will be a rapid eu membership. but ukraine will be free. europe will be free, democratic, the rule of law and it will be worth every effort.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for two years now ukraine has bravely defended its territory and its citizens from putin's illegal attack. in the last 24 months we have witnessed serious violations of international law by russia, which has threatened not only european security and stability but even all the values of peace and democracy that underlie them. putin thought ukraine would crumble on itself. the determination of its people and the firm support of europe did not allow it. from day one, all european institutions have sided with the ukrainian resistance. a concrete support, which translated into 80 billion in humanitarian, financial and military assistance. europe is determined to stand for democracy and will not leave ukraine alone against a ruthless dictator like putin. and this despite the attempts of some sovereign leaders, friends of the italian government, to block the necessary resources. it is not enough, dear colleagues, to support the ukrainian people concretely: the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european community in which the rule of law is upheld.
mr. president, what is this? when russia launched a large-scale attack on ukraine two years ago, europe was shocked and shocked, although russia's brutal imperialism has been known for centuries in europe. a little history would be useful, i think. the ukrainians have amazed us with their determination and courage, but today the mood is different and we cannot curse reality. and the mood is different, it's our fault too. ukraine is not only short of equipment, but also of people. the willingness of young ukrainians to join the army is declining. many prefer to stay abroad. political differences are growing in kiev. it's just that in this situation, we should do more, not less. and it's good that the european council has decided to continue providing financial support to ukraine (which is of great importance) and that it has finally decided to consider using frozen russian assets. congratulations on your determination and courage. let's hope we don't wait another two years for real action on this.
mr president, council, mr vice-president, two years ago, russian troops invaded kiev, invaded ukraine and vladimir putin made it clear that he wanted a europe from kiev to lisbon, controlled by moscow. this wish of putin has not changed and it is therefore essential that the european union, two years ago, is at the forefront of solidarity with the ukrainian state and people. financial support is essential. military support is essential. humanitarian support is essential. it is essential to move forward in the process of ukraine's accession. it is crucial to link ukraine to nato. without these pillars - financial support, humanitarian support, military support, integration into the european union and future integration into nato - europe will be weaker, europe will be vulnerable and putin and the russian invaders will have a victory.
mr president, the eu indeed showed unity last week with the ukraine facility in support of the brave ukrainians fighting also on our behalf for our democracy. but make no mistake, orbán held the other 26 hostage for way too long, and it is an illusion to think he will stop. he delayed and blackmailed you into unlawfully unfreezing eur 10 billion. sort it! use article 7 and suspend the presidency, because autocrats will never stop unless we stop them. putin will not stop either, unless we give ukraine the military support it needs to win – not just what it needs not to lose. the differences in bilateral military aid by member states are inexplicable and, frankly, unacceptable. send the ammunition, sent the jets, send the atacms! ukraine must be able to neutralise the russian positions from which it is being attacked. ukraine must win. slava ukraini!
mr president, i welcome the agreement reached in the council to continue to support ukraine in all areas. this unity and this determination must be maintained until the russian aggressors are completely driven out. we need more sanctions and more unwavering action. russia must experience the horror of the war that has begun. she needs to be placed in complete isolation. or maybe it's time to cut off diplomatic relations with her. according to the vienna convention, these relations imply friendship and cooperation, but with putin's russia we cannot have a friendship and cooperation relationship because we are not orban. in interstate relations, there must be morals, principles and values. glory to ukraine!
mr president, it’s two years since the start of the full scale invasion of russia in ukraine, but it’s also 10 years since the illegal occupation of crimea and, let me remind you, exactly 20 years since the poisoning of president yushchenko of ukraine. twenty years later, even the so-called useful idiots in this hemicycle must clearly see the intentions of the imperial regime in the kremlin. even more importantly, it must be clear what our pragmatic interest as nations in a united europe is, and it is that defending the independence and internationally recognised borders of ukraine is the interest of our own national security. furthermore, isolating russia economically is our clear interest of our economic independence. a lot of russian propagandists say that russia doesn’t like meddling in its backyard, but in the imperial mentality in the kremlin, their backyard includes not only sofia and bucharest, but also berlin and moscow.
mr. president, what is this? your honor! today we can say that the european parliament has locked itself in a glass tower. you don't hear the desperate screams of farmers protesting in front of the european parliament, you don't notice the bastard being dumped in luxembourg square. today, european farmers are talking about climate policy enough to cause their farms to collapse. today, european farmers are saying bast! but do they find understanding in this room? the left side of the room and the greens, of course, think that the farmers don't understand that their actions are saving. no, i'm not. mr commissioner, 40 million europeans cannot afford to pay for heating or air conditioning. energy poverty is a big problem. you also want to disrupt food security, to cause food prices to rise because of the collapse of european farms. you're leading a crazy, irresponsible climate policy that's not good for the human race. it's time for reason and reason. i hope that on june 9th, the green europeans and the left will show a red card.
mr president, i would be very interested to know why we have come up with such an ambitious objective. when i listen to this discussion, most people find it rather comical, but it's just something we disagree with. i think we should focus more on how to reduce our own consumption in the european union and how to use what we have, how to stop exploiting third countries for the raw materials and resources we need for our innovations to make us better and better. i think cutting our consumption or emissions by 90 percent in 50 years is an absolute number that i don't know who came up with or why. but i was more affected by it in agriculture, by 30 percent, where we want to cut emissions from 2015. and i'd be interested to know that now that we want to do this, we're going to have some measurements of the cows now, how much gas they're producing, and we're going to be discussing how much they can or can't or what we're going to do. i think we're going to have clean air, maybe in 2040, when we reach these goals, which i don't believe in at all, and we're going to have clean air, but no food, and we're all going to die here in beauty, because this kind of investment or change really doesn't need the european union. rather, we should think about what we can do with what we have, and not invent new things of that nature.
mr president, hearing the phrase climate goals, i am convinced that some people in the european union think they are masters of the planet, and in fact we are just part of biodiversity. we can't control the climate processes. disasters have always been periodic and they are not the result of human activity. are we to blame for hurricanes, tsunamis, or volcanic eruptions? we can't stop them, we can only adapt and somehow survive. it's been that way all through human history. you don't think the ice age was caused by our ancestors who lit fires and produced carbon dioxide? colleagues, we have no chance to solve the world's problems. it is clear that european citizens are tired of someone working against their interests. you saw what happened in brussels, you saw what happened in paris, if you continue with these irresponsible actions like the climate goals, a wave of discontent will flood all of europe. i guarantee you, we'll eventually disappear like the dinosaurs disappeared?
mr. speaker, i'm afraid the debate has become a little populist, a little pre-election and has unnecessarily exacerbated the populist passions on both sides of the house, and not by accident because it's timeless. it's timeless because we're missing the elephant in the room, and that's because we're far from reaching our 2030 targets, far from being ready for 55, fit for 55, . and this should be our dialogue right now, the dialogue about how to achieve our goals by keeping prices low and industrial production high, because trends are reversed towards higher prices and lower production, and they are very worrying. first of all, how can we avoid the sharp polarization of the political debate that these economic trends are currently promoting? last but not least, how to coordinate our climate policy at least with our partners across the atlantic, the north american free trade community. otherwise, it turns out we're hiding a failure behind more ambitious goals, but for another time.
mr president, russia's interference in the eu's democratic processes is a matter of concern and requires a decisive response. last autumn, slovak parliamentary elections were marked by a widespread spread of pro-russian propaganda. the public debate has usually focused on the links between right-wing parties and russia. often, the debate overlooks similar sins committed by others of a different political background. it is true that many visible demars have been enthusiastically lobbying for energy dependence on russia, which has since allowed russia to finance its war on ukraine. in addition, it has been reported that a latvian mob member of the green party has been a spy for the russian intelligence service fsb for at least 12 decades. there's mud everywhere. any vague links to russia must be severed, whether they emerge in any political reference group.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. the european parliament's deputy, béla kovács, was sentenced to five years in prison for espionage. the right-wing mep spied on the institutions of the european union for russia. two years ago, in hungary, ahead of the parliamentary elections, opposition parties accepted 4 billion forints of prohibited campaign money from outside the european union. what has the european union done in these two areas? he was listening. ladies and gentlemen, please. the european parliament has blocked the hungarian proceedings against kovács béla. the european parliament's committee on exemptions has not discussed the suspension of the exemption for more than a year. he's prevented the accountability from happening. what is the european commission doing about the 4 billion forints of campaign support coming from outside the european union? he's listening to you. hypocrisy continues to speak out against russian espionage and influence outside the european union when nothing is being done about the actual actions in the world of hell.
madam president, russia gate is a reality. in bulgaria, we are seeing disinformation, attempts to falsify history and to register and finance pro-kremlin parties before elections and a confrontation in society. the russian agency has infiltrated institutions, the media, civil society organizations, the military and security services, banks and energy companies, universities. russian agents call the war against russia a conflict. they're talking about peace through territorial concessions by ukraine. they say supporting ukraine is war, they sabotage the provision of military aid. they also argue that our union is breaking up, that by joining it the states are losing their national sovereignty and always add that european values are alien to traditional national values. but unfortunately, i have heard such political ones in this room, so it is long overdue for a european strategy and action to intercept russian agencies in europe. and let us thank the bulgarian investigative journalist hristo grozev for his publication on the activities of the mep tatiana zhdanoka.
mr. chairman, internships focused on specific skills ensure a successful career start. education and skills development initiatives, quality traineeships and lifelong learning programmes are essential to ensure equal opportunities and access to labour markets. they allow young people to start their professional lives with confidence. quality traineeships are a key tool for integrating young people into the labour market. a strategic system of quality internships would certainly promote the link between education and business. i call on the commission to consider the diversity of traineeships. they should be offered in different sectors and regions to meet the diverse interests and needs of young people. and let us not forget the young people who live in rural areas who do not have equal access and adequate development opportunities.
