mr president, mr commissioner, the humanitarian crisis in the middle east is a tragedy. my homeland, cyprus, is close to the region and although small in size, it points the way for initiatives to protect civilians and create a humanitarian corridor, but it requires synergy and cooperation from all. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the basis of the information provided by the commission. no sane person wants this tragedy to continue. but at the same time, let's be honest. the disarmament of the terrorist organization hamas is also a priority so that there is no longer any danger to the people of israel. and because we are talking about the risk of a more general conflagration in the region, let us not forget some of our partners who are playing it, and after supporting putin, hamas, hezbollah, now they are supporting the houthis. and of course i'm talking about those who didn't understand turkey and mr. erdoğan.
madam president, we are witnessing the rise of xenophobia, racist phenomena and other forms of intolerance stemming from nationalism, patriarchal perception and cultural racism. xenophobia, empathy for immigrants and the rejection of isolation in general are the unifying element of the new far right and must be condemned without hesitation. in my country, cyprus, we have seen two pogroms against immigrants recently. just a few days ago, kisa, an ngo defending immigrant rights, was bombed. we must not leave any room for misinterpretation of hate speech. the fight against these phenomena must be a priority for the european union. we must speed up the introduction of legal measures and criteria for the definition of hate crimes that will apply in all member states.
in writing. it is a great honour for me personally and for cyprus. when you come from a small country and undertake such a large european project, it is a great honour in itself and i am happy that it is being successfully implemented in all the member states. it is an opportunity to benefit european society and european citizens at the level of skills to have a competitive europe. specialized workforce, self-confident citizens and development opportunities. 77% of employers report difficulties in finding skilled talent and this is where the european year of skills comes in to provide solutions. we have a dual transition ahead of us, the digital transition and the green transition. the european citizens must have the skills to cope with the new era. the year of skills is just trying to give these skills to european citizens so that they can have better prospects, either on the labour market or to improve their living standards. we didn't leave anyone behind. skills are for all age groups, from children to the elderly, people in remote areas. the member states have a golden opportunity to take advantage of it and i am pleased that so far it has been properly exploited by the various programmes that have been implemented. this year i hope it will leave a significant legacy for future generations.
mr president, mr commissioner, a year ago we asked the european commission to pass legislation prohibiting free training. unfortunately, we are still waiting for progress on this matter. it is time to finally invest in the new generation, not only with slogans but with concrete policies. although we have dedicated 2022 to the european year of youth, we have not yet fulfilled the basic demands of young people. we therefore demand fairly remunerated practical training, medical care and social protection. the practical training should lead to quality jobs with fully guaranteed employment rights and not replace permanent jobs. the new generation is the future. so let's invest in the next generation. it is time to ban unpaid training in all the member states of the european union.
