the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt delegated acts in accordance with the opinion of the committee on budgets. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. environment and climate protection through modern technology and in cooperation with those concerned i would like to re-write the work we have done in the two reports. i am speaking today for the rapporteur, jessica polfjärd, and i congratulate her on a report which has passed through the environment committee and the plenary and the trilogy without much controversy. thank you to everyone involved who helped. the polfjärd report is about ozone-depleting substances. we had a huge problem with the ozone hole in the '80s. as a doctor, i know that skin cancer through the ozone hole has increased very, very much. we have now very well managed the problem through an international agreement and the replacement of those substances that cause the ozone hole. there are few areas where these substances are still allowed, for example in medicine. the agreement provides for more controls and we want to ensure that these substances are recovered and recycled safely. for building materials, including demolition of buildings, greater care must be taken to ensure that the substances do not enter the atmosphere. and the leaks need to be better controlled. i think in both reports and i will say something again about the f-gas report we have succeeded in supporting modern technology that can help us fight environmental problems. f-gases are up to 25,000 times more harmful to the climate than co2, and that's why we have a construction site here. the f-gas regulation allows us to save as much co2 as ireland, portugal and sweden emit annually, or as many cars as many cars. this is a very, very important step for climate protection. many eu companies have the alternative natural refrigerants we need to continue to demonstrate the function. and that's why this is a good solution for large parts of the industry. but we had a construction site: after the decision of the environment committee, the craft rightly complained. i am saying this very clearly: we must take into account the interests of the craft. without craftsmanship, there is no energy transition. the problem was that when we were fixing equipment and when we were talking about spare parts, for example, or when we were talking about when an existing device is no longer working and you have to put f-gas in it to make it work again, we had a much too short transition period in the environment committee. 2024 should be a ban already. i am therefore very grateful that the plenary has adopted the amendments one from the ep together with renew and one from the ep alone on this subject, so that the craft has planning certainty and does not render existing installations worthless. i think in the end this is a good result climate and environmental protection with the craft and with the industry.
rapporteur. – mr president, we are tomorrow going to vote on the revision of the f-gas regulation, which indeed i think is a very good example of a regulation that is improving our circumstances for our environment, but at the same time improving european competitiveness and european industry. first of all, i really would like to thank all the shadows for their negotiations and their support, and of course also the council and the commission for all their work in achieving this compromise. the f-gas regulation is existing, of course. the current one was already reducing our f-gas emissions and, just reminding, f-gases are very potent greenhouse gases. so, in the number of molecules we don't emit as much co2, but some of those have an impact on the global warming potential, even up to 24 000. so that means one molecule has 24 000 times more of an impact on global warming than one molecule of co2. so, this is the low-hanging fruit that we need to achieve. already the existing regulation is reducing the use and the emissions of f-gases – and more or less two thirds of that is being reduced – with this regulation and achieving zero emissions by 2050, it means that all the f-gases will be out of our economy and will be replaced by natural alternatives, and that is a very clear prospect for all the investors from now on. if you are working on heat pumps and conditioning cooling systems, you know where to go to. you need to invest in the natural alternatives, and that is the very clear point to go to. this is also one of the first sectors that is then really achieving zero emissions that we have promised to achieve for the entire economy by 2050. in that sense, i think it's another good example of how this law can work. of course, there were considerations and concerns about the heat pumps, which of course also demands a fast acceleration. i think, thanks to the negotiations with council and my colleagues and the commission, we have had a good compromise that is giving a clear signal also for the market, certainly for the heat pumps for consumers, but at the same time also making sure that this acceleration of expansion of heat pumps can be achieved. also part of the concern was that if we are moving from f-gases with lower potential, we could be moving to chemicals that fall under the category of pfas. i think that also gives you another very clear example, that moving to the natural alternatives in some of these applications is very important. maybe a very last point. this sector is having innovation mainly within europe. if we are looking at the use of f-gases, it is mainly done by non-european industrial players. it's the european industrial players that are investing in the natural alternatives and are ahead of the game. so this regulation and this revision of the regulation is a support for european innovation, for achieving natural alternatives. and that not only makes this a very good environmental law, but it also makes it a very strong law for european competitiveness. i think that is a very important message to give, that environmental legislation can go hand in hand with good economic regulation. so with that, i would like to thank everyone, and i hope for a good approval tomorrow in the plenary. i'm looking forward to then the implementation by the commission, to move as fast as possible to achieve net zero emissions by 2050, and in this sector to achieve zero emissions by 2050.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, indeed today we discuss the compromises reached on two very important climate regulations, as it has just been eloquently pointed out. i thank the two rapporteurs for their work on making this agreement possible. it is an ambitious agreement that will decisively contribute to our climate objectives. on f-gases, the new rules before you today will strongly reduce f-gas emissions. this high ambition is great news in view of our climate targets for 2030 and reaching climate neutrality by 2050. in particular, the use of the most important group of f-gases, the hfcs, will be phased out by 2050, and we will strongly reduce other relevant f-gases such as sf6, the strongest known greenhouse gas. this will transform a number of sectors of our economy, including the air conditioning and heat pump sector, the electricity sector using electrical switchgear and the medical sector of asthma sprays, so that they are no longer depending on the highly-warming greenhouse gases. i perfectly join what has been said on how you can combine europe's competitiveness, industrial competitiveness by improving our environmental approach and also by achieving our objectives. as parliament demanded, the agreed review ensures that a number of sectors where alternatives are feasible will eventually completely avoid the use of substances that may produce pfas in the medium term. this is the case of smaller heat pumps. business as usual is no longer possible, and the european industry has an opportunity to become the first to supply these low-carbon and climate-neutral solutions globally. already today, we are witnessing that the offer of fully climate-friendly heat pumps and switchgear on the eu market is increasing by the day, and many of these types of equipment are produced here in europe, with a number of large new plants that have opened in recent months. not least, this transition will bring significant financial benefits for citizens to with, for instance, more energy savings and less operation costs for many types of equipment, including heat pumps. turning to the ozone-depleting substances regulation. going ahead with the successful phase out of ozone-depleting substances is also essential for our climate agenda. thanks to the montreal protocol, we can expect that the ozone hole will recover by approximately 2070 and prevent a major impact in global warming. up to one degree of climate warming will be prevented by mid-century because of the global elimination of ozone-depleting substances. but these effects are ensured only if there is no backsliding. the eu must continue to lead by example and inspire others in the world to be ambitious. the eu will now be able to capture the large potential to save emissions from old insulation foams in houses for renovation or demolition, a measure that will certainly stimulate the recycling sector. but the compromise goes further, thanks to your efforts, in particular regarding the more hands-on approach to reduce feedstock use in chemical production, the main remaining use of ozone-depleting substances in the eu. in summary, on both files, the political agreement is excellent, representing a key step forward towards limiting global temperature increase and respecting the paris agreement. for this reason, i ask all distinguished members here today to strongly endorse these compromises so that we can move on to implementation and make sure these emissions savings and other benefits can be achieved as quickly as possible.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, dear colleagues, the deal reached on the new f-gas regulation sets us on the path towards the ambitious goal of reducing emissions by the equivalent of 40 million tonnes co2 in the next six years, and achieving a full phase-out by 2050. standing here on behalf of sara skyttedal, rapporteur for the itre opinion, i have to say that this path is not only ambitious, but also realistic. thanks to the balanced phase-down in the first decade, in a way that will not jeopardise neither the repair of existing equipment nor the repowereu goals of a much-needed heat-pump deployment. the groups to the left in this house tend to view climate legislation in an astonishingly naive and short-sighted way, where the highest bidder has the most climate-friendly policy. i'm really happy that the new f-gas regulation instead follows the long-term balanced prescription of the centre-right: a climate policy that sets ambitious targets, but also delivers on them on account of securing the competitiveness of european industry. i'd like to thank sara for her great work.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, for ozone-depleting substances i think we have reached a very good deal. we will protect more the ozone layer, which is perfect, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, jessica polfjärd. on fluorinated gases, i would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur, bas eickhout. we are known from time to time to have different positions, but bas has always remained constructive and from time to time even inclusively democratic. so, bas, many thanks for it. but now, seriously, i was not happy, and i would even say i was a little shocked, when i saw the proposal from the european commission, which was mainly driven by ideology and ambitions. in fact, it was imposing a risk on the availability of asthma medical inhalers, and the availability of heat pumps at a time of growing demand and a project called repowereu, and also some risk for the electricity grid. so it was not a good situation. i was even more shocked when some colleagues from the european parliament wanted to go even further, just to be, let’s say, more ambitious than the european commission, without seeing the full picture. but in the end, i must say that i’m happy with the final proposal, because i think we have succeeded, finally, to balance and to protect european citizens and businesses from, let’s say, unrealistic ambitions. and we strike a balance that’s very important between existing and emerging, more sustainable technologies. so it’s a good proposal in the end. we don’t impose a major risk on the energy and healthcare sectors within the eu, and i’m happy for this.
mr. speaker, ladies and gentlemen, today is exactly 55 years since a young student burned himself in the centre of prague. jan palach has devoted his life to trying to awaken czech society from lethargy, fatigue and pessimism in the face of violent russian aggression and occupation. we're starting to see fatigue and lethargy in europe as well. we can't give in. yesterday, the head of ukrainian diplomacy said, "if we get weapons, we'll defend ourselves with shovels". but russia cannot be defended with shovels alone. the ukrainians need weapons, and we need to help them and give them more weapons than we are doing now, and before it's too late.
mr president, mr commissioner, today we discuss a proposal pivotal to empowering consumers in the european union and the fight against unfair commercial practices. this initiative significantly enhances transparency around product sustainability, guiding consumers toward choices with detailed information on durability and reparability. it balances regulatory measures with market dynamism, fostering innovation for our european companies. importantly, the proposal embraces a voluntary guarantee mechanism promoting legal frameworks that strengthen market operations without imposing obligations. we are not enforcing the green deal – instead, we are making it attractive and beneficial for companies and consumers. lastly, the inclusion of a review clause, proposed by my political group, reflects our foresight. it’s crucial to assess digital service and software regulations, ensuring they are neither overly burdensome nor unnecessary. i believe this clause will safeguard the digital development from being stifled, fostering a balance between environmental goals and technological progress.
mr president, mr commissioner, the formula for producing and throwing is no longer working. today consumers have the right to participate in the economy based, for example, on the seven r's rule: reduce, reuse, recycle, redesign, repair, renew and redesign, thanks to the circular economy strategy. however, to exercise this right, they must have true and reliable information about the products they buy. practices like greenwashing seek to deceive consumers by offering opaque information that we must combat. there are companies that promote their products as environmentally friendly, but they are not or cannot justify it. this directive is an important step forward in the fight against misleading information to ensure that decisions can be made with good knowledge. this directive provides legal certainty for both businesses and consumers. we must ensure a european single market in accordance with our values and principles, finding harmony between consumer protection and the environment without compromising the competitiveness of our businesses.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. our business model is a spin-off model. we need to buy new products at ever cheaper prices faster and faster. our planet can't take this anymore. our growth is not sustainable. we need nothing less than a restructuring of our economic model so that we can buy better, more sustainable products that last. the commission has also decided to adopt a new approach to the implementation of the common agricultural policy. we've now completed that with eco-design. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. and they must be strengthened so that they are not misled. we have that on the table here. now consumers must also have real rights, such as a real right to repair with a right against manufacturers, a ban on hardware, software and contractual technology to make repair difficult; ensure that spare parts are available and market-friendly and to encourage consumers to opt for repair rather than a new device to enable consumers to do so. we have to vote on this today, we have done it here, and then we have to put an end to the right to repair.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to protect european consumers, we need a strong europe capable of competing in the large global markets, in which china, for example, is entering with new development models. believing in the potential of each member state, managing the legislative formula of the green transition responsibly and in good faith, is the first important step in recognising a pragmatic and realistic approach to environmental change processes. the consumer is therefore not considered a mere user to be charged with the costs of too stringent green policies, but a strategic player for the economic development of society. europe must instead focus on developing an economy based on the expectations and needs of families and workers, because we cannot forget the importance that europe and the member states have had over the past decades in promoting economic development. the contributions they have made to the emancipation of humanity from living conditions to the limits of subsistence; the commission has also been able to draw up a report on the progress made in establishing a model of social protection for consumers that is still unparalleled in the world. this is the europe we aspire to, this is the europe that does the consumer good.
mr president, commissioner, i hope that this proposal will finally ensure that people in europe are not deceived by false information about products and services. today, almost everything that has a green label is wrapped in natural paper, claiming to be made organically. but in most cases, the reality is quite different. and if we look at the entire product lifecycle, we find that it's a pretty scam that our people pay a lot of extra money for. i have proposed a number of improvements to your proposal with my colleagues, and i ask you to work on them. in particular, to prevent the double quality of food from happening again, multinational companies and supermarkets will offer organic products in some countries and other countries will become a dumping ground for the dirty and unorganic.
mr. chairman, the constant calls on israel to limit its military action in gaza must be rejected. the actors who are escalating the tensions are hamas, hezbollah, iran and the yemeni insurgents. israel must eliminate the terrorist organization hamas as soon as possible. a ceasefire at this time would only mean time for terrorists to prepare for another attack on israel and threaten israeli civilians. the continuing call for the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages should be reinforced. 102 days after the terrorists' rage, 136 people are still in captivity, including women, children and seniors. it is also necessary to provide humanitarian assistance to the civilian population in gaza. israel is working with the un to increase aid and ensure that civilian aid is not stolen by terrorists who then serve to carry out further attacks on israel.
for the ecr group. mr president, there is much we can do to improve farmers' conditions. but we have to listen to them. unfortunately, this did not happen during the mandate of the european commission. the commission has come up with a number of green legislative proposals with an immediate impact on farmers, both in increasing the bureaucratic burden and in new requirements aimed at combating climate change. at the same time, however, it did nothing to facilitate or discount the implementation of these measures by farmers. for example, the proposal to use precise breeding methods came very late and it may not be discussed before the end of our term. the farmer needs to be consulted on changes, the overall approach to the common agricultural policy and the accession of new countries to the european union.
for the ecr group. madam president, for us in the former eastern bloc, freedom of speech is a key value. we are sensitive to its limitations and to the advantages of seemingly noble goals. moreover, it cannot be overlooked that the goal is often more to protect left-wing dogmas than individuals. for example, the tabooing of the discussion of migration policy out of fear of hate speech has brought us to a situation where and it's terrible in european metropolises hundreds of thousands of people march with terrorist flags and chant the massacres of jews. now we're trying to anchor this taboo in legislation and across europe. unfortunately, even this from the eastern bloc reminds us of a familiar way of solving problems. in life, each person must deal with criticism that may be inappropriate or even painful. and if it exceeds the limits of the right to individual or group protection, each state has the means to do so. there is no need for harmonisation at european level. i myself come from the most atheistic country in europe, but i really don't like to see politicians in our courtroom quoting from the bible, as we saw in finland.
madam president, dear commissioner, absent council, dear colleagues, roughly two years ago, the commission proposed the inclusion of hate speech and hate crime in the list of eu crimes, a necessary move to establish ground rules for criminal offences and sanctions that would apply across europe. you think that’s an easy one, right? but no, the member states decided to impede on this matter and be absent from this debate. it’s painfully obvious that for some governments, protecting their citizens from the rising tide of hate crimes is about as important as yesterday’s news. well, scratch that, it’s not even on their radar. it’s time to ditch the delays, drop the ideological fights, and focus on what matters. combating hate and protecting victims. this is a call to action. this is what is expected from you.
madam president, i quote from the document on fundamental rights in the eu. article 21 of the charter prohibits any discrimination against political or other views. that's a sign of hypocrisy. here in the european parliament, president sassoli has declared a sanity cordon against our faction identity and democracy, which he has expressed not only in lies but also in hatred. the other factions therefore agreed that we would not be represented in the leadership of parliament, committees and delegations. citizens in the eu are discriminated against on the basis of nationality and property, which the eu is making worse by its policies that lead to poverty. you're acting like you're inciting hatred. hate is an emotion. remove the causes of hatred and these emotions will not arise. in fact, you're looking for a way to suppress your uncomfortable opinions. that's why you talk about rights, but you're introducing censorship. you punish the emotions you create.
for the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen, you know i'm often critical here, but i'm going to praise you. that's a very good news. it is rightly calling on the european union to exploit the potential of geothermal energy to a much greater extent because it has one huge advantage. it's a stable renewable resource that's weather-independent. the earth is always emitting heat and energy. and not only that. even these systems are capable of storing excess energy from other renewable sources. i myself have been living for several years in a city in northwestern czech republic, in litomerece, which is a pioneer in the efforts to harness geothermal energy in our country. ten years ago, the university, the city, and with state support, drilled experimental wells, and now, with the support of the fair transformation fund, we're starting an investment that will basically heat the entire city, more than 25,000 people, with this system. that's a step in the right direction.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. my fellow workers. it is unacceptable, as you have said, that in 2023 there will be no stable energy supply and heating for every household in the union. the livelihood crisis is particularly affecting the disadvantaged. i represent the roma in europe, and we have a lot of problems to deal with this winter. we need very strong action by the member states, very strong eu support. it is essential that the commission allocate resources for lockdown and social purposes to each member state. the partial financing programme was launched in december 2023, and we are very pleased to see that it is now showing results. we have begun to rebuild the technologically obsolete housing and heating systems of homes, which is frustrating, but let me tell you, madam speaker, that we would very much like to vote on this report, and we consider it very, very important that the energy crisis finally begins to be eliminated, but the fact that the left continues to use such an important context to promote such ideological battles and popular ideological issues under the gender mainstream, i find problematic. i think it is very important that we collect good practices and impose them on the member states.
madam president, throughout the pandemic, it was the women of ireland that sustained our societies. the weight of paid and unpaid caring responsibilities, as well as work in low-paid essential services, was disproportionately carried by women. now, post-pandemic and faced with the cost of living crisis, the disproportionality continues. irish women often act as the shock absorbers of the cost of living crisis going without food, clothes or heating to protect and provide for their families. the childcare system in ireland is on its knees, with families paying akin to a second mortgage each month. meanwhile, workers in the childcare industry, predominantly women, are barely earning enough to make ends meet. many qualified and very capable women are forced to make the difficult decision to remove themselves from the workforce, as they’re not earning enough to make paying extortionate childcare fees feasible. action must be taken to introduce a truly affordable childcare system in ireland and finally give families the break they badly deserve.
mrs president, commissioner schmit, ladies and gentlemen, women are facing every crisis in a patriarchal society that is struggling to reinvent itself. the socialists and democrats call for greater social equity, which will put human capital at the centre of the european project without discrimination on the basis of gender. we have certainly made progress in this mandate through the adoption of directives on minimum wages, wage transparency and the european child guarantee, among others. but above all, it is a transversal, inclusive and cross-sectional approach that we need to address the challenges of the environmental and digital transition. strengthening investment in infrastructure and public services and in energy-efficient housing is a first step that will need to be further intensified. we socialists and democrats will also keep a close eye on the implementation of targeted policies that take into account the gender dimension in policies to combat poverty, access to employment and continuing education. in the years ahead, ladies and gentlemen, we will fight for european legislation that guarantees just transitions, inclusive transitions, but also gender-sensitive transitions.
the figures in the analyses are clear. women were most affected by energy crises, pandemics and inflation. in particular, in 2022, 22.5% of women were at risk of poverty versus 19.7% of men and 9.5% of women were at risk of poverty versus 7.8% of men. this is given, for example, by women continuing to receive lower wages for the same work. they work mainly in the care and social sectors, which unfortunately are often underfunded. they also have lower pensions and are more likely to live below the poverty line. although states are trying to take measures to mitigate these crises, they are often one-off, short-term or otherwise insufficient. social partners are becoming less and less involved in the formulation of these policies. the report therefore contains specific steps that we should take.
author. – madam president, dear colleagues, china has a long history of suppression, persecution and torture of its many minorities. the falun gong are no exception and had to endure decades of treatment designed to eradicate them. we must impose economic sanctions on the officials in charge of these crimes, freeze their assets and refuse visas. our huge trade relationship must not become the reason to look away – away from forced organ harvesting, forced sterilisations and mass concentration camps in the 21st century. the collective european union has, for decades, done nothing to deter the ccp from these crimes. instead, we send huge business delegations together with our heads of state and accept china’s wishes to treat these crimes as a domestic issue, not to be interfered with. colleagues, at a time when china supplies much of the needed war materials to russia and blatantly commits crimes against humanity, let us not fund our own demise and sell our values.
mr. chairman, two years. two years since the aggressive attack of putin's hordes on ukraine. yes, part of our society and probably part of our politicians are starting to get tired of us still dealing with what's happening in ukraine and the impact on europe. but being tired is not the answer. if we don't stop russia now, next time it's one of us, and the consequences for all of us are much worse. and in supporting ukraine's heroic struggle, we must persevere and resolve all the things we have neglected over the past decade. two percent of the defence budget must be an absolute minimum for each member state and we must finally start producing our defence industry. it is not possible for banks to refuse to finance investments in the defence industry. there's no way europe can't produce enough ammunition. we have a lot of work to do, but we have no alternative, there is no third way. ukraine needs a victory. the european union needs ukraine's victory.
the rapporteur of the committee on agriculture. mr president, there are many in the european parliament who oppose precise breeding methods and some even deliberately mistake new breeding methods for gmos, thus manipulating public opinion. it's not fair. precise breeding methods will give our farmers new varieties of plants that will, for example, be more drought-resistant, less prone to mold and other pests, better nutrient-using, and less industrial fertilizer or pesticide use. and that's something we all call for. ngt plants are more efficient, more precise and faster, and no foreign genes are used. they are supported by a broad professional community. they are commonly used in other parts of the world and these products are then imported to us. please give a chance to sustainable and competitive european agriculture. please vote for the new breeding techniques.
for the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of the rural storms in europe, the commission is coming up with another plan, the main criterion of which is unrealistically high ambition. but the main problem with this 2040 climate plan is something else entirely. it's an attempt to impose a different lifestyle on people, to limit their free choice. did you, ladies and gentlemen, introduce the voters to this? did you openly come up with a plan for what their lives would be like if we were really consistent? have you told farmers and people that after energy, transportation, housing, we're going to auction off meat, milk and other staples? i don't think he is. according to the evolution of political preferences, voters are already in shock from the impact of your earlier ideas. i don't know where else you want to go and what you're planning to do about their stamina, but i consider it a gamble to make such a draconian proposal before the election without knowing the real socioeconomic implications.
mr president, mr commissioner, it is extremely important that the european union remains consistent with the idea behind the european green plan and that by 2050 we become the first climate-neutral continent in the world. some say this plan isn't ambitious enough. i don't agree with them. cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 90 percent by 2040 is very ambitious, but i'd like to know, and i'm not clear enough how they plan to achieve these ambitious plans. in fact, we are aware that in many member states, not all citizens have an understanding of the goals of the green transition. the commission has therefore considered that the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the measures with the internal market and the compatibility of the measures with the internal market. and that's what many of the far right, as we've just heard, and populist parties will insist on in the upcoming elections and pick up their political points. so when planning such ambitious climate targets, we need to be clear and concrete. without it, we're not going to be successful.
mr president, commissioner, in the autumn the commission president ursula von der leyen in prague promised to listen to industry and people. so we logically expected that you would stop thinking about new climate ambitious targets and bureaucracy and instead correct the climate package that you accepted, for example, lowering the price of emissions permits or proposing to lift the ban on combustion engines. so what did you do? it's basically the opposite. at a time when the european union is no longer competitive due to high energy prices, are you considering another ambitious climate plan and want to spend up to 600 or 700 billion euros a year on it? are you serious? it's just a price increase and a threat to competitiveness again. it's obvious that people, industry and agriculture are not the ones you're listening to. and let me tell you something in conclusion. there are places in europe where people are simply already full of these unrealistic climate ambitions and your cabinet. so maybe it's time to pack up the fidget and go damage somewhere else.
madam president, dear colleagues, 24 february will mark the second tragic anniversary of the russian full-scale invasion of ukraine. in the wake of this aggression, we stopped taking our security for granted and recognised the urgent need to address also hybrid threats posed by russia within our borders and our institutions. we must investigate how far the fsb reaches in europe and stop them from reaching to the highest levels of policymaking. also, we must expose to the fullest the financial channels from russia, which bolster european organisations and politicians propagating hate, for instance by anti-lgbt sentiments. their aim is clear: to create divisive conflict in our society. we owe it to our future generations and to the brave people of ukraine, who will hopefully soon join the union. we want a strong and confident europe, free of hostile russian influence. from the outset of the invasion, the european pirate party has vocally supported ukraine. today, almost two years later, i wish to reiterate that we still stand strong behind ukraine, and i ask you, dear colleagues, to do the same. if you allow me one more message to mrs ždanoka directly, you said you are an agent of peace. well, if you are an agent of peace, maybe the best for peace is that you ask your friend and ally putin to remove his presence from ukraine, and personally, maybe he could arrive in the hague.
