it’s just not to have it this week – so then we will take it when we prepare for the next session. for wednesday, the left group has requested that a commission statement on ‘norway’s recent decision to advance seabed mining in the arctic’ be added as the second item in the afternoon, after the topical debate. the debate would be wound up with a resolution and the session would be extended to 23.00. i give the floor to silvia modig to move the request on behalf of the left group.
i give the floor to ms bentele to speak against.
madam president, i would like to join my colleague michael gahler. the agenda is very, very full, and even if this might be an important issue, it’s not an urgent issue. so i would also like to ask to postpone this debate to one of the next plenaries in february.
for the ecr group. mr speaker, i want to speak to you. the latest area where the eu wants to introduce new standards is in refrigerators, air conditioners and heat pumps, including a ban on f-gases. but what will happen if the 3,000 models of heat pumps currently on the market are suddenly replaced by models without f-gases? 1.3 million swedish households have a heat pump today. how many of these households will be forced to switch to a new heat pump in the near future? not only will the pumps become more expensive, but there will also be fewer units on the market. many consumers will find themselves in the following situation; that you want to buy a new heat pump before winter. so, you guys, get your hands on the last sex, because there won't be any until next summer. yes, it is good to promote innovation, but bans that ignore the technological feasibility and consumer ability to pay are harmful. what the eu calls ambitious, ambitious and innovative is in fact a hard blow to citizens. many people have chosen heat pumps precisely because they produce heat in a very cheap and efficient way without any dirty or toxic emissions. the eu should therefore promote the use of more heat pumps rather than make it more difficult.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the trilogy was a long one, but in the end reason prevailed over ideological positions. we are not denying the attention to environmental protection, nor are we criticizing research into alternative technologies. the commission has already established a number of measures to combat the risks of the gas sector. i repeat: reducing greenhouse gases and looking for more sustainable and natural solutions in the refrigeration and heat pump sector is our vision. the problem is the integrity of some of the souls in this parliament. how can we demand the elimination of f-gases by switching to more dangerous technologies like flammable gases? why do some want to impose prohibitions and deadlines too close if there are no technological solutions available? fortunately, the council has returned to a balance with the initial forecasts. it will be crucial to assess in the next term whether this legislation will meet the expectations of operators, actors and the environment. two things to consider. firstly, in the european union we are at the forefront of refrigeration; do we want to see speedy ideological choices affect a sector of excellence? do we not think that companies and workers need stable, clear regulations that protect the environment and not neglect to defend their businesses? the second one: let's look at it. do you really think that with such strict regulations and unrelated to the technological context we will be competitive on the international scene? there are already quite a few aggressive business practices around us; how can we support the production and research of our enterprises if we do not create the right conditions? i'll finish. with just a few months to go before the european elections, citizens are increasingly asking us to use reason and balance in choices, especially those that touch on daily life. we are therefore replacing the various ideologies with a pragmatic approach that protects businesses, workers and our production.
mr president, i thank the two rapporteurs for their excellent work. as a young man, i heard almost daily in the news nasty reports about the hole in the ozone layer, and that led to action. among other things, cfks were quickly fitted to tyres. refrigerators and spray cans have long been free of these gases. the montreal protocol to save the ozone layer is a good example of how if we put our shoulders together somewhere, we can solve problems. the ozone layer is recovering under the montreal protocol. yet substances that affect the ozone layer and break down the ozone layer remain a major concern. especially since they are contributing so much to the climate crisis. this bill will put in place good measures to address this. but we need to do much more work replacing ozone depleting gases used in manufacturing processes. the use of such substances for the production of plastics and pesticides is not justifiable. as for the animal party, this is gonna stop soon. i'd rather have it today than tomorrow.
mr president, i want to speak to you. fluorinated greenhouse gas sf6 is 25,000 times more harmful to the environment than co2 when it enters the atmosphere. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of certain substances. this is equivalent to the annual co2 emissions of the netherlands. in 2016, we as the eu signed an addendum to the montreal agreement to reduce the production and use of these highly polluting gases. so it's high time we took regulatory action. it is also wise in industrial policy, because in europe we have developed, thanks to our innovative power, in recent years a technology that is able to completely replace this harmful gas in the power lines of our energy networks with a sustainable alternative. this natural gas alternative is non-toxic, patent-free, made available by several suppliers in europe and can be used without much effort. and at siemens' berlin site, ladies and gentlemen, this was first noticed, and that's why we're home to sf6 free switches. in berlin, through decades of tireless research and development, history has finally been written for environmentally friendly industrial production. and since the berlin technology is also ready for use immediately, i think we could have been more ambitious in the high voltage area and in the timetable of eliminating sf6 gas. but the bottom line is that we are now paving the way for this technological success story to be passed on to the eu and mass production of the parts with the new, climate-damaging replacement gases to begin. i would like to thank all the visionaries at the berlin site and all the colleagues in the commission, the council and parliament who have contributed to this important milestone for a climate neutral europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to briefly illustrate some of the objectives of the contribution we have made as a committee to industry, always working, as i have done, in the conviction that the environmental protection policies we are pursuing are not only compatible with competitiveness but can also boost the competitiveness of our production system. the first objective was to encourage and support innovation in the many processes in which f-gas is already used today: for example, the pharmaceutical and industrial cold technologies have already proven themselves to be highly innovative and are now able to achieve performance levels that are even higher than those indicated by the commission in its original proposal. technological solutions with even less impact are available or will soon be. the second point was to work to avoid market constraints, which are already present or are developing, and restrictions on the single market and free movement of goods. we believe that the scope of available alternatives and applications should be broadened to avoid monopolistic solutions, as already exists in the electrical switching sector. i could also speak about spare parts, where we have wished for greater caution and attention because there is a problem of household financial availability, but i close by saying that although not all our comments have been forwarded, we are convinced that this is a good measure and we support it.
mr president, honourable commissioner, dear colleagues, the scientific evidence have already confirmed fluorinated gas and ozone-depleting substances which are used in everyday-life appliances, like refrigerators and air conditioners, are highly potent human-made greenhouse gases, with some of the worst global-warming potential, often several thousand times stronger than co2. by strengthening rules to massively reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fluorinated gas and ozone-depleting substances by regulation, we prevent almost 500 million tonnes of further emissions by 2050, and it is much more than the equivalent emissions from the netherlands. the regulations we conclude today will provide the european market and citizens incentives to use climate-friendly alternatives, and also contribute to further stimulation of the global market in order to accelerate this path of transition in third countries. it is also important to underline that the implementation of both pieces of this legislation has to facilitate customs and the surveillance authorities to control imports and exports, and to crack down on the illegal trade of gases and related equipment. there is a need for a comprehensive and efficient approach that will cover a broad range of substances and activities, and improve the procedure of reporting and verifying data. we have also to make climate-friendly technologies more widely available to accelerate the replacement of these substances with alternatives. we all know that this year hundreds of thousands of europeans died prematurely, and many more suffer from heart and lung diseases or pollution-induced cancers. the longer we wait to reduce air and atmosphere pollution, the higher the cost to society. we need urgently to adopt more effective, efficient and immediately applicable measures to improve and protect the quality of our life and the environment.
the commissioner, the president, the commissioner, the members of the commission and the members of the commission. the green deal is our strategy to reduce the harmful effects on the environment, climate change and even the ozone layer that protects the earth from harmful radiation. the chemicals that reduce the ozone layer can be reduced in many areas of our lives and activities. the good news is that the ozone layer can be improved with good measures. many of the measures we have taken under the green deal are good, effective and also sensible. but we run into problems when we are unable to explain to our citizens the meaning of certain measures that make life difficult and even costly. such measures include restricting or even banning smoking on wood or biomass. in a country that is 60 percent forested, this is the most appropriate and economically viable solution for many. of course, with the use of newer, less emissions-reducing smoke-making devices. the same applies to heat pumps. but we must take measures with particular care in relation to farming and food production. healthy, locally grown food is the best solution to reduce emissions. our actions will be feasible and effective if they are also reasonable and balanced.
mr president, dear commissioner, i remember talk of the ozone hole, and then we people got together and made the solutions in 1987 in the montreal protocol which phased out many substances that were responsible for the hole in the ozone layer. and we do have fridges and we do have refrigerators and i don't know anybody going for the market to look for the one with cfcs. i only heard two critical groups here, so we are together here making decisions that we also don't need f-gases that are 2.5% of our greenhouse gas emissions, and that number has doubled since 1990 unlike greenhouse gases in general. so i don't know if you should put a few in the museum and a few fridges or heat pumps for those who are not willing to change for the future. i’m very happy with the majority here, and then that balanced outcome that we can work for the people, for the climate and for our industries. it is very important that the security of supply aspect is taken on board with more heat pumps, but also it befits the commission to look at the eco labelling that fireplaces in -20 are a good aspect to look when there is electricity cuts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. yes, we must fight climate change. so it's right that we're not going to use fluoridated greenhouse gases until 2050. these so-called f-gases are damaging the climate, and that's exactly what we want to prevent. but switches, fire extinguishers, coolers and heat pumps all need f-gas. good alternatives are mostly still in development. so we can only reduce the use of f-gases step by step. rightly so, there was a scream from our butchers, bakers, brewers and farmers. they were all worried about a total ban. after all, they can't change everything from today to tomorrow. if it had been the commission or our green colleagues' proposal, the maintenance of existing equipment would have even been banned. imagine that, if a butcher had bought a new nail-nail cooling system shortly before this ban and it had broken down, he would not have been allowed to repair it. we, as cdu/csu, want the circular economy. this includes the need to repair defective stock and not replace it immediately. good thing we were able to get through it, but we're still getting a repair. this is good for our farms and good for the circular economy. that's what reasonable compromises look like.
rapporteur. – mr president, i was running the last kilometre but i hope i will be able to do it, so thank you very much for this opportunity to remind us about the mifir and mifid. tomorrow we will vote to endorse the interinstitutional agreement on the review of the regulation and directive on the markets in financial infrastructure. the changes to both mifir and mifid modify the rulebook governing participation in european capital markets, which play a fundamental role in channelling capital to the real economy. we need to ensure that our economy grows strong and remains competitive as there are long term challenges around. europe requires more than eur 500 billion of additional investment funding annually to ensure its sustainable competitiveness and resilience. this is not a mere financial challenge. it is a strategic imperative. yet we remain dependent on bank-based financing while our capital markets are lagging behind. they are fragmented, which contributes to the inefficient allocation of capital. the once vibrant landscape of initial public offerings – ipos – now stands at less than half the size of the us new listings. the us stock market's value relative to gdp is nearly twice that of the eu. many in this house will remember that we embarked on building the capital markets union back in 2015, but the project was tailored to the eu of 28 member states with a major financial centre across the channel, and the focus was on national capital markets rather than on the removal of cross-border barriers. we need urgently to move away from fragmented capital markets and towards the idea of a capital market union. advancing towards a truly single and vibrant capital market union is of fundamental importance for european open strategic autonomy. this context to the mifir and mifid review, which had four key objectives: to reduce market fragmentation and market data costs; to harmonise and simplify the transparency rules; to enhance the levels of investor protection; and to increase the attractiveness and competitiveness of eu markets. i can proudly say that the text that we will vote on tomorrow achieves all these objectives. thanks to the assertiveness of our house, for the first time, europe will have a consolidated tape, a database designed to democratise access to market data and improve data quality by providing a continuous electronic live data stream on prices and trading volumes, consolidating the information obtained from multiple trading venues across the eu. it will reduce the fragmentation and cost of market data, will empower financial institutions and retail investors to observe in a single place the price and volumes for shares, etfs, bonds or derivatives in the union. the discussions on the consolidated tape were the most difficult part of the package, due to divergent views on the exact features that this new market infrastructure should have. in the review, we have also taken a careful look at the functioning of the market transparency rules in the union, as well as in other jurisdictions. we put forward changes that seek to increase the competitiveness of eu firms, supported by the simplification and harmonisation of the transparency rules applicable across europe. we have introduced greater flexibility in the framework by empowering the european securities and market authority to set the thresholds and limits applicable to market transparency, and to oversee market developments, intervening when required. the harmonisation and simplification of transparency rules should strengthen the level playing field between all market participants and increase the overall transparency of european market structure. the report also mandates the commission to carry out a holistic assessment of the financial markets legislation with respect to commodity derivatives, in light of the learnings from the energy crisis. to conclude, thanks to the efforts of the negotiating team, to whom i am really grateful for the openness, the final text contains many of the elements that the parliament was calling for throughout the negotiations, and i believe that the final compromise represents a great victory not only for the parliament, but for all those who care about the importance of the european capital markets union.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, this debate on the reform of mifir and mifid is of the highest importance, as just now outlined by the rapporteur. i thank you very much for your presentation. reforming our market structure is essential to keep european capital markets both competitive and attractive. creating consolidated tapes of prices for shares, bonds and certain derivatives is an essential tool for the capital markets union we absolutely need in order to shoulder the enormous investments europe has to make. they will collate pricing data that european and international investors need to make informed investment decisions. this is especially important for smaller investors, who currently don’t have the same sort of access to this data as large institutional investors do. we are very grateful for the efforts of parliament, and we look forward to your vote tomorrow. you have contributed towards an ambitious outcome. after nearly two years of intense discussions, the result strikes a good balance. in no small part this is thanks to the efforts of parliament’s negotiating team, and in particular your merit, ms hübner, who steered these talks. to mention some of the specific topics included in this review: first, on the consolidated tapes, the result is more ambitious than the original proposal. some pre-trade information will be added straightaway to the consolidated tape for equity. this is thanks to the efforts of parliament. this will undoubtedly reinforce the competitiveness of our capital markets. i also want to mention payment for order flow. this has been a contentious topic and a very important one for parliament. negotiations resulted in a full ban on this practice. on commodity derivative markets, parliament introduced review clauses in mifid that will allow us to assess their functioning also in light of the recent energy crisis. but it is important to keep in mind that a lot of work is still to come. the next step is implementing the new rules. various technical measures will be developed in the coming months, so that the framework works in practice. the commission, together with esma, is already working hard in this regard. next year, esma will launch the first selection procedure for the consolidated tape for bonds. this will be followed by selection procedures for shares and exchange-traded funds, and later for over-the-counter derivatives. the commission services have already started work on selecting the right identifier for over-the-counter derivatives.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. if we are to discuss the financial instruments markets today, we are not going to get around the impending ban on payment for order flow. this remuneration was the basis for business models of numerous german and european start-ups. it was only in this way that the capital market was able to gain momentum in the area of non-compensationary savings. i think it is wrong to ban payment for order flow now and i refuse. it threatens the promise of a whole generation's rise. let me briefly address three points: we live in an era where, thanks to innovative start-ups, it's never been easier to set up a free retirement savings plan in seconds. payment for order flow has contributed to a growing stock culture, and that's good. this action culture is a soft flannel. eight out of 10 europeans do not rely on the capital market and we face a huge pension gap. if the german chancellor is primarily concerned with savings accounts in the event of high inflation, that is his business, but we must not help to make the capital market less attractive by banning it in europe. for us, stock culture is part of wealth building, retirement and promises of promotion. the ban on payment for order flow is said to prevent a conflict of interest in stock trading. but when the ban comes, i see the interests of customers, small investors and young people affected above all. if you bet 20, 30 or 40 euros a month, you can't afford to pay big taxes. this is not about sugar, but about starting early and making your own ascent.
in the name of the renew faction. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. i'm really angry tonight because we're just attacking the stock culture in europe. especially since the pandemic, young people have invested, with small amounts: the student or the azubi who sometimes sets aside and invests, simply through new brokers on the stock market, and very, very cheaply. instead of doing more now, to strengthen the stock culture even more, let us now introduce a barrier with the ban on payment for order flow. instead of going with a total ban now, why not work with transparency, show customers the pros and cons instead of just banning everything now, like this is. this will not make our new-breaker companies more innovative. it makes sure we push the bar there. it will also lead to the collapse of the stock culture in europe. this is precisely the europe we do not need. it is a europe hostile to the future, it is a bureaucratizing europe. it is not a europe that gives young people and stockholders a chance.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, it is crucial that we have a joint european response to the houthi attacks in the red sea, but at the same time, it is our duty to safeguard the progress that peace efforts have made in yemen recently. the european union indeed needs to play its part to secure a safe passage for commercial ships, to prevent a further increase in commodity prices in the region, and to ensure that the merchant vessel galaxy leader is freed, including its crew, among them eu citizens. to be honest, i'm a little surprised that it took the council so long to come up with the proposal for an eu mission and hopefully a positive decision will be taken soon. but commissioner, i was also surprised that you were not sharing any information on this with us here today. so do we really need to rely on political leaks to get the information? what is planned, what the process is, when the mission will be happening. so, maybe in your concluding remarks you could share some more information. at the same time, we have to make sure that the yemeni people, who have been suffering from war, massive violence, escalation and a humanitarian crisis for 10 years will also be seen and will also be important in our response. i was in yemen in december as the head of a delegation of this parliament, and i can tell you, yemenis want nothing more than this catastrophe to end. and we need to make sure that their voices are also heard in the ongoing debate, that their needs are taken into account when setting up our joint eu response, because otherwise the long-term effects of our policy in the region would be detrimental. colleagues, allow me to make one more additional remark. all the drones and missiles that are being fired at merchant ships, or in the direction of saudi arabia, or even trying to target israel, they were manufactured in iran, they were transferred to the houthis by the revolutionary guards, and no one will be able to bring peace to this region unless we finally dare to revise our iran policy, to take a stance, to revise our relations with this brutal regime and to take a clear stance against the revolutionary guards. we must call them and treat them as what they are: a terrorist organisation terrorising its own citizens and the whole region.
- madam president, please. yes, of course, the attacks by the houthi militias on merchant ships in the red sea are to be criticised. but those who criticize this and who remain silent about israel's crimes in gaza are playing a hypocritical game and are not contributing to a sustainable solution in the region. and the united states even blocked the call for a ceasefire in gaza at the un security council. this is unacceptable! the current escalation in yemen is a threat to the people there. and that's not just a left-wing member of parliament, özlem demirel, who says that, but also the irc. yes, we are talking about yemen a country where people live, which has been ravaged by war for nine years, where a humanitarian catastrophe exists. and this humanitarian disaster was also brought forward by weapons made in the eu. and now the federal government in germany says it wants to deliver eurofighter to saudi arabia. no, we need de-escalation! what's happening right now in the middle east is exactly wrong. it is contrary to the interests of the peoples of the world.
in the name of the left faction. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. and there is also very often, mr commissioner, you know that there are unsustainable working conditions here. the top of the iceberg was probably the truck drivers from grafenhausen. but we've also seen it in the pandemic among the savings workers in germany. where law is abused and not enforced, there must be control. we must create two things: clearer rules for people who work across borders but also enforce control. yes, there is the ela. but the ela was not able to do anything in the two examples i just mentioned. and, commissioner, the point is that this lawlessness no longer exists. workers have rights, whether they cross the border or not, whether they have a migrant background or not, whether they are european or not. third countries have this too. and that is exactly what we are demanding with this resolution.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. the ela, which many have stressed, was really important to create confidence that we really want and can get fair mobility and that we have cross-border institutions to do that. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs for this proposal, for this document. i would like to stress two points and also address mr kósa: if we want to bring more third-country nationals to europe right now because we have a professional problem and at the same time do nothing that we have wild west methods in certain sectors, exploitation graveyards has been called here then this is not going to work. and we actually have digital tools now to make sure we can really identify much more clearly: where are the critical sectors? where are the companies that systematically exploit, for example, as was the case with mazur in poland? we can use artificial intelligence to do that. all this will only be of use if we give the ela the tools it needs to support fair mobility.
mr president, i want to speak to you. hello to the afd and other rights. my name is delara. my father is german, my mother is from iran. i am a social democrat and i celebrate christmas with nouruz. am i german enough, or would you push me and 12 million other people into germany? you call it "remigration". the correctiv research has shown us that the right is extremely well-connected, it is not only rising in the polls, but it is taking over governments, becoming mayor and forming a majority in parliaments across europe. in social networks, in neighbourhood grills, or even in parliamentary speeches: they are against minorities, against the free press, they are looting the welfare state and they are praising fascists. that's how it started, too, said holocaust survivor margot friedmann a few days ago. and she's right, it's never now. and there is hope. in a few hours, over 10,000 people gathered in my hometown of kiel, across parties, unions, civil society. and that's the way it has to go. whether on the streets, in the comments columns or in parliaments: no footing on the fascists!
mr president, i want to speak to you. today, there are a number of colleagues here who have been thinking about how it is that we, who stand for good work and good working conditions everywhere in europe, have such a gap in our regulations that when their deputies die, assistants have to leave their offices within three days, that they no longer have access to their emails, that there is no transitional regime. i don't know how old this rule is, but i really do advocate that we change that. that we can make a reasonable transition period for people in this house, too, so they know that they can safely actually find a new job. i know everyone thinks they've seen the parliament series, they're all well secured. but this is an element that is really the opposite of good work, that people are falling into the ground at the moment. and that is why we should find a reasonable solution here. we are also always ready to see what such a solution might look like. it is not that you want something that is inappropriate, but that the rules that apply everywhere in professional life also apply to assistants in parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. belgium has, we have heard, an excellent reputation for forging compromises in difficult negotiations. i would like to mention three cases which are particularly important here: one is really the reform of economic governance. we cannot allow a return to austerity policy. we need the space for social investment. and that is why i think the convergence framework is a good and important focus of yours. a second dossier is the platform work. i think it's always good to be influenced and inspired by french fashion. but here going french in the platform work would reduce the protection of workers, and we shouldn't do that. the third point is a very difficult one: coordination of social security. you want to promote fair mobility, then don't let that part of the negotiations go to waste, show that you can: make good compromises that will move europe forward, strengthen it and protect its people.
madam president, prime minister de croo, you said that the single european market is a priority for you and i want to tell you that today in romania tens of thousands of carriers are on the streets protesting that they want the single european market. austria has decided - chancellor nehammer, that romania must not enter the schengen area, unjustified, without any reason. but today, thousands of romanian transport companies, tens of thousands of carriers, have huge financial losses. they're humiliated because they have to waste hours and days at border crossings. you must make this a priority, and you, mr vice-president šefčovič, because this situation is absolutely intolerable and the funds must be made available immediately and the transport companies and carriers compensated. they have done nothing wrong and deserve to be compensated for the huge financial losses and humiliations they suffer, without doing anything wrong, i repeat, but only because they want to be in the european single market, an obligation of ours, of all.
the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are fully used. we expect a stronger commitment to immigration: the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to take measures to ensure that the community's citizens are able to participate in the process of transfers of funds. we must abandon ultra-environmentalist ideology and put competitiveness and industrial policies back at the centre. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i also read that you would like to propose the notorious nutri-score, a labelling system that discriminates between quality products and the mediterranean diet, a favour to multinational standardised food and large distribution companies that we do not need.
- madam president, please. for six months, belgium will assume the presidency of the council, with the country with the highest tax burden in the eu. a country that, despite its draconian taxation, suffers from its decaying infrastructure. now, mr prime minister, you are proposing additional eu own resources, let us call them eu own taxes. and belgium is, i cannot spare you, a country where haters of jews, even at the government level, want to deny israel the right to defend itself militarily against hamas' terrorism and to defend its very existence. mr de croo, i will tell you today what i said to the german chancellor scholz at this point: please first clean up your own country before you come here with visions. i urge you to refrain from any plans to introduce your own eu taxes. and i urge you to ensure that in your country, anti-israelism and anti-semitism are vigorously stopped. this is the responsibility that comes with your country's presidency.
the belgian presidency has a duty, a duty, a duty to contribute to a strong, capable, secure european union; a european union which is competitive, supportive and cohesive at the same time; a geopolitical european union with global strength; a european union which must have common projects, strategic investments. i ask the belgian prime minister if he is willing to move quickly to the revision of the multiannual financial framework, if he is willing to decide on revenue that does not penalise citizens and is on the table, allowing for an additional eur 40 billion to be added to the budget of the european union. we need to continue to support ukraine, to have strategic projects, to have global strength and for that we need investment. we can't wait any longer. parliament is waiting. the council cannot delay. apathy has to stop.
the belgian presidency is coming to europe at a crucial moment, but at the same time the task is clear and, in my view, twofold. first of all, the european elections are coming to a close and we must get results on the table as soon as possible. because only with these results of the green and digital transition can we present the balance sheet to the european electorate with confidence. and, moreover, young people will vote for the first time in belgium. we have a collective responsibility to convince them to exercise their democratic right. secondly, i hope that the belgian presidency will give an important impetus to the strategic agenda of europe. it will be a matter of setting a firm, conservative course so that we as a continent take the place we need in this geopolitical, turbulent landscape. the war in ukraine continues to rage. relations with russia are under pressure. the middle east is a fire. china requires our strategic attention and the us elections this fall will color the alliance with europe. the strategic agenda means to me: to work thoroughly on the enlargement of the european union, while fully respecting a merit-based process, while also reforming and uniting the union; the european union is a very competitive europe. we have made progress in our climate policy. but now we must also fill the competitive loop so that we can continue to give businesses, large and small, but also farmers, perspective in the future.
mr president, mr prime minister, two withdrawals from the belgian presidency programme. first, respect for the eu's fundamental values, the rule of law and democracy. you have agreed to continue your negotiations with hungary. i encourage you to move forward in this process and to acknowledge among the member states that hungary is seriously and permanently violating the fundamental values of the eu and that its right to vote must be withheld. this is essential to restore the eu's operational capacity and credibility. another important issue is the eu's decision-making capacity on foreign policy issues. in this international situation, the european union must be able to act quickly, coherently and effectively. the fact that all foreign policy decisions currently require full unanimity from the member states makes the european union a too slow, rigid and united actor. you also promised to promote the debate on the transition to majority decisions in eu foreign policy. it would be possible now if the european council decided to do so. i encourage you to move forward. it is very important in this international situation.
the belgian presidency and the course of the european union in 2024 will, in my view, be judged largely on the battlefield in ukraine. in recent times, russian troops have been stabilizing or even strengthening their positions. putin has militarized the russian economy, supplied weapons systems from iran and north korea, shows a determination to do anything to prevail. on the contrary, the european union seems to be lagging behind. we are always with ukraine, but we are lagging behind in fulfilling our commitments and we do not want to assume additional commitments to help ukraine withstand the increasing pressure from russia. in my view, however much the necessary additional assistance to ukraine costs, the costs of putin's possible dominance will be multiplied for the european union.
madam president, dear prime minister, i’m sure you are fully aware of the importance of letting each and every eu citizen feel part of the european project. the more attachment it gets, the stronger it will be. i would like to call your attention to one unresolved issue that has been passed on to your presidency from the previous spanish one, which is the official request to grant catalan, basque and galician languages the status of official eu languages. i ask you to keep building consensus in the council for this fair request, and bring it back to its agenda as soon as possible. there can be no legitimate reason to keep denying us catalans, but also galicians and basques the same linguistic rights towards the eu than the vast majority of eu citizens already enjoy. prime minister, millions of catalans count on your commitment towards diversity and equality of rights to deliver on this important issue.
honorable president and madam prime minister and sir. the belgian presidency's priority must be to achieve an immediate ceasefire and peace negotiations to achieve a lasting and just peace in ukraine. the financial assistance to ukraine is essential but not to be settled by a common credit assessment. first, we need to clarify how much money and what the eu has spent in ukraine since the outbreak of war. the war situation makes it impossible to plan four years in advance, so it is worth reviewing the aid annually. it's different. the consequences of brussels' failed migration policy are being suffered by innocent people on the streets of western europe, and we see growing anti-semitism. the over-imposed migration pact is actually part of the problem. we need a radical change. and it's time to end the double standards of the rule of law. hungary is regularly presented as an unfounded problem, while real violations of law in warsaw are taking place. the overheated, hungarian-footed attacks are not hurting our country, they are tearing up the union. change must be made in june when the sovereign side ends this hypocrisy.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, prime minister, madam minister, honourable members of the european parliament, i think also this morning’s debate clearly demonstrated that belgium takes the presidency at a very crucial time. as it was stated very well by honourable members lutgen, garcía pérez, vautmans and lamberts, it’s clear that we are facing generational challenges. we have to promote democracy within and outside europe. we need to strengthen europe to thrive in this new, tough, geopolitically tense world which brought military conflicts so close to the european union’s borders that it’s affecting our people and our economy. therefore, mr prime minister, we welcome your focus on competitiveness and also on the rollout of a socially fair green deal. in this regard, on top of the work on the remaining legislative files, we will continue our clean transition dialogues with the industrial sectors crucial for european future competitiveness and those sectors which are undergoing the most profound green and climate transition, including the discussions and dialogues with farmers as was proposed by madam niebler and mr mureşan. and i would like to reassure everyone that we approach these dialogues with a logic of inclusiveness, with the logic of the whole value chain collaboration and common endeavour to look at every aspect of our economy to perform better. we also increased our efforts to offset unnecessary administrative burden stemming from our legislation as much as possible. and also, we are working very hard to reduce the reporting obligations by 25 %. i am convinced that the belgian focus on this very important competitiveness aspect of the eu economy, together with the important incoming reports of enrico letta and mario draghi, will bring us concrete suggestions to strengthen the strategic autonomy of europe. to honourable member dan nica, i would like to reassure you that the commission supports romania and bulgaria to strengthen external borders with the support of frontex, and also by having the pilot projects on more structural basis. we will also continue to support the political discussions to ensure that the decision on lifting the internal border checks at land borders can still be taken by the council this year. to conclude, madam president, i would like to make the reference to the points raised by madam garcía pérez, madam vautmans, but also several other colleagues from this house who have been underscoring the importance of ukraine – and we will have a chance to discuss this aspect further with madam minister in our subsequent debate – because the issue of support of ukraine, but also a further progress in our enlargement process, are historical tasks of this parliament, this commission and the council. and to achieve the progress we need in this historic task, we urgently need the revision of the multiannual financial framework. i know how high this is on the priority list of the belgian presidency, and we will be working hand-in-hand with you, mr prime minister, to have a positive outcome, hopefully already at the next extraordinary european council at the beginning of february. so, dear prime minister, madam minister, honourable members, i would like to wish all the best to the belgian presidency. good luck with all the very difficult, challenging files and we are looking forward to the closest possible cooperation. i am sure that in six months will be celebrating a positive, successful outcome of your presidency.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, dear colleagues, thank you for for a rich debate and it shows that this is how democracy works – is that people have ideas and people have different ideas. some of you did contribute with ideas; some of you did not. let me answer a few of the questions that that have been asked. je commencerai par monsieur lutgen. en effet, vous avez raison de mettre en avant le secteur de l’agriculture. je ne l’ai pas mentionné dans mon discours, mais cela ne veut pas dire que ce n’est pas important. et le côté agriculture, avec le rôle économique qu’elle joue – rallier l’industrie et l’agriculture, je pense que c’est le point fondamental. je pense que trop souvent on a essayé d’opposer l’un à l’autre et je pense que c’est une faute de les opposer. vous avez tout à fait raison: c’est un sujet important, et important aussi pour la présidence belge. madam pérez, you asked a question on social protection and the platform economy. and i think we have to find the right the right balance. the platform economy has positive points where it creates opportunities for people to enter into the labour market in a flexible way. opportunities to learn certain skills from another perspective. of course, social protection is crucial. finding that balance, i think, we share that objective with you. dear hilde, ms vautmans, as we grow, we have to get better, and i think that is the right way of seeing it. it needs to be in parallel. as we know we have an ambitious agenda on that, we will be contributing with the permanent president of the european council, of course, and working on that, we will play a role of being a facilitator, of bringing people together. but indeed, it is crucial, as the european union that will respond to those expectations. poll after poll, we see that our population expects more from the european union, and that might not be something that some people in this audience like to hear. but the european population across the board expects more from us, and we need to respond to that expectation. monsieur lamberts, quand j’ai parlé de la pause pour bien regarder, je n’ai jamais dit une pause sur le pacte vert. jamais. le pacte vert est la priorité et on ne peut pas toucher à cette priorité. mais je pense que, dans l’exécution de tous les différents paquets qu’on met en avant, il faut bien mettre la priorité sur les choses. bien regarder quelle est la séquence à utiliser, je pense, aidera à réaliser le pacte vert et aidera aussi à avoir le soutien de notre population européenne. mijnheer bourgeois, mijnheer annemans, ik hoor u beiden hetzelfde vertellen. ik moet zeggen, ik ben naar straatsburg gekomen en ik dacht dat ik in brussel gebleven was. (geklap)van beiden heb ik níéts gehoord over waar deze europese unie naartoe moet gaan. blijkbaar hebben uw beide partijen geen mening over wat europese politiek zou moeten betekenen. nochtans lijkt het mij een zeer belangrijk beleidsdomein te zijn. maar u heeft hier beiden de gelegenheid gehad en heeft niets verteld over welke richting het europees debat uit zou moeten gaan. dat is ontstellend, maar het geeft misschien een stuk transparantie aan de belgen over waar uw prioriteit ligt. en uw prioriteit ligt duidelijk niet hier. dat is jammer, maar het is een realiteit. as i said, there is a broad range of things that we will do in our presidency. many of you have mentioned the fact that competitiveness is high on the agenda and the functioning of the internal market is a crucial one. the european reform agenda is one in which the priorities are ‘how do we finance, how do we make our decisions?’ the debate on fundamental rights and on the rule of law touches at the core of what we are as a european union. i think, listening to some of you, it is more important than ever to defend that democracy where we are allowed to have different opinions and where we respect the fact that different opinions are at the core of democracy. i think that, in the world of today, it is good not to be alone. are we happy to be a club of 27 that defend one another in a world that is more turbulent than ever? that is, for me, the conclusion: democracy, also in europe, is working together. working together is not always a beauty contest. sometimes it is hard work. it is hard work, but that is what people expect from us. that is what people expect from democracies. it is hard work, but let us deliver on the expectations from our population. let us make europe a better place for future generations. that is our duty. that is what our presidency will work on. that is my commitment, and i hope i can count on this european parliament in that incredibly important endeavour.
that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. mr prime minister, belgium is taking over the eu presidency when europe is boiling in dissatisfaction! i'm glad, mr. prime minister, that you said that we need an industrial pact besides the green pact, and that the internal market and the social pillar are important! but you didn't say anything about what you were doing in your mandate with the schengen area! how much longer will my country bear the insult, injustice and financial damage that austria has caused by the unjustified vote against romania? in romania, farmers and conveyors are on the streets, they have reached the end of power! what are your proposals for romania and bulgaria to be where they have the right to be - in the schengen area? if the eu does not understand that discrimination against romanians, the different treatment of citizens destroys european agriculture, it will be responsible for the outcome and failure of this year's elections. trust in the european project will only grow if you stop treating citizens and countries as second-hand.
in writing. european parliament elections will be held under the belgian presidency. i think it is of the utmost importance that as many roma citizens as possible of the eu go to vote in june this year. i therefore call on the major parties in the eu to demand that their regional partners nominate roma politicians and professionals in member states where we have a significant presence. furthermore, every party faction expects its parties to block racist, anti-semitic and anti-organic rhetoric. since hungary joined in 2004, every five years, all party groups have signed a joint declaration on this subject. it's a great disappointment that we didn't do this in the 2019 election, and it's important to re-engage publicly in suppressing racist claims.
in writing. i'm going to have to ask you to come back. my fellow representatives! as prime minister alexander de croo has stressed, 2024 will be a decisive year for europe and the world. as a social democrat, i consider it my duty to strengthen a unified, solidarity-based, self-sustaining union based on european values and to spread the successful work of the eu institutions to our constituencies. we are europe and we are shaping europe! in recent years, the european union has faced many challenges, from which it has emerged stronger, with new tools such as the common non-credit facility for reconstruction and resilience or the repowereu tool, which have opened up the possibility for the union to help its citizens at an incredible speed in the future under similar conditions under extraordinary circumstances. europe is therefore moving forward. but unfortunately, there are member states that are working to undermine, break cooperation. so is the hungarian government. as a hungarian opposition representative, i therefore consider it my duty to draw the attention of the belgian presidency to the priority of preserving european values, strengthening democracy and monitoring their implementation. the next presidential post will be held by the government of viktor orbán. i am confident that the belgian presidency will take an active role in this process and take steps to make constructive progress on the procedures initiated. thank you for your attention.
in writing. the european union and the belgian presidency must continue to prioritise the protection of european citizens in the face of the crises we face: inflation, high drug prices, diversification of social inequalities, securing external borders and the consequences of the war in ukraine. the kingdom of belgium must prove, more than ever, its strong negotiating character to convince the member states that europe can only be strong if it is solidary and united. i therefore call on the belgian presidency of the council of the european union to protect european solidarity and to continue their joint efforts, making efforts to make romania's full accession to the schengen area a reality as soon as possible. in this regard, i propose that the belgian presidency come up with a clear timetable for the lifting of customs controls on land for romania and ensure that this is supported by all member states.
it's in writing. your honor, the chairman! - the honourable prime minister! your government is now taking responsibility for the direction of the development of the whole european union. this is happening at a very difficult time, during war, in the price and energy crises, in the recent inflation, in the climate and migration challenges and in the rise of crime in many member states. but i would like to focus my speech on another crisis, namely the rule of law. until recently, the rule of law in the european union was only discussed in the context of hungary and poland. in poland, we are quickly eliminating changes that have been made within the framework of an undemocratic legal order. we restore rule of law and respect for state institutions. unfortunately, there are legitimate concerns that other eu countries will join hungary. this is very disturbing in the context of the enormous challenges i mentioned earlier. only on the basis of a strong democratic order will we be able to effectively confront them. we also need to better use the mechanisms to expose the lies of populist governments. here i would expect more courageous moves from the european commission. populism in today's crisis and geopolitical conditions is a more dangerous phenomenon than ever. i thank you for your words on the rule of law and democracy as the heart of the european union and for your declaration of a resolute defence of the most basic principles of the european project.
in writing. the belgian presidency faces a particular challenge, as the european elections in early june shorten the time for the completion of legislative proposals. i fully support the belgian presidency's motto: 'protect. strengthen'. the following is the list of the countries of the european union: i welcome the belgian presidency's desire to focus on migration. the reform of the asylum system, which the countries and the european parliament agreed on in december, was already an important step in this direction. with a view to european food security, it is necessary to ensure that we can continue to feed ourselves and that we take farmers on our path towards greater sustainability and not move production to third countries with lower social and sustainability standards. in addition, russia's ongoing war against ukraine must not be lost here the belgian government has announced a new aid programme, which is also urgently needed. it is essential for the planned enlargement of the eu that the outstanding commitments of the candidates are met before the next steps can be taken.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. for too long we have taken peace on this continent for granted. we forgot that security requires that we can defend ourselves and our allies. instead, we neglected the military hardware and outsourced our security. the truth is that the only thing that stands between us and the immediate military threat today is the bravery of ukrainian women. they are the ones who endure the brutal bombardment every night so that we can sleep peacefully here in the eu. it is the ukrainians who have built an insurmountable wall with their lives to stop russia's imperialist advance. if this wall falls, we'll see what we forgot: russian tanks in european cities. so the commitment to ukraine is not only our main goal, but it is also our vital interest. iran and north korea are sending ballistic missiles to russia. we need to do much more than just support the mantra as long as it is necessary to repeat it. every cartridge we produce for ukraine is an invaluable investment in our own security. putin will not stop at ukraine, moldova or georgia. he wants the baltic, he wants poland, the suwałki gap. and he'll go even further if we let him. because, as putin has said repeatedly, russia's borders end nowhere. let's show russia where its borders really are.
in the name of the left faction. the commission has already taken a number of steps. the question of war or peace is usually a class question. as a rule, in war, it is said that the weapons deliver the bodies to the rich and the poor. the war in ukraine has been going on for 23 months, and the us chief of staff, mark milley, said in the fall of 2022 that it was unlikely that ukraine would win this war on the battlefield. and yet the nato states have done one thing, they said, fight, boys, keep fighting, and deliver weapons. billions have been put into weapons. i understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you want to raise the price of rival russia. but what you're doing is cynical. because let's look at the reality: it's a war of position. it's going ten meters in one direction or the other. meanwhile, thousands are dying on this battlefield, thousands of poor. and the workers of the world are paying the price for this internal imperial power struggle that is taking place there. and now people in ukraine are increasingly realizing that the solution is not on the battlefield. and what is the selensky government doing? it is discussing whether it is only the men in ukraine who are paid to go to war, or whether it is not to tax the military service, which is cynical and illustrates the class nature of war. no, there is a pressing need for a political solution and an end to the war, and the eu must contribute to that!
mr president, i want to speak to you. the continued demand for military support for ukraine is unacceptable for several reasons. firstly, there is not a single serious expert who sees even the slightest hint of a chance of a victory for ukraine. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. secondly, the case of gonzalo lira shows more than clearly that ukraine has absolutely nothing to do with our values. gonzalo lira is an american journalist who died a few days ago in ukrainian custody. he was arrested several times for critical reports of the ukrainian leadership, tortured heavily and suffered from severe pneumonia in recent months. nevertheless, he was denied the necessary medical treatment, and he died in prison at age 55. i therefore call for an independent investigation of this case under the leadership of the osce and for an immediate cessation of all support for this corrupt state. back to the negotiating table. end the suffering of the ukrainian people. you're the reason this people's been suffering longer.
mr president, i want to speak to you. the commission has already decided to make a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals and plants. and that just shows how huge the demand is. the consumer who wants to shop sustainably. for three out of four eu citizens in the eu, the environmental impact of their product is important. and to counter this urge, the climate crisis and the consumption of resources, we have to make it happen. we must direct this great purchasing power to sustainable economies and to sustainable farms. and we have to make sure that consumers are not being led backwards into thinking they're consuming sustainably, and the product is actually climate-damaging. and with tomorrow's vote, we're going to do exactly that: we're going to call greenwashing the fight. in the future, no clothes, no cosmetics, no cars or any world cups can be called climate neutral if they are not. because the co2 balances of the companies that are right and important, but they must of course not lead to greenwashing. the vote tomorrow will finally let consumers know that sustainable products are also truly sustainable.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. a cdu member is presenting a report on transparency. we don't see that every day here either. but you, mr pieper, want to have identified who was now the real culprit behind catargate: the ngos. i think transparency is great, and i looked at how many ngos meetings you've published in the last year: one. and how many ngos have you talked to about this report? not at all, at least according to your publications. if you'd talk to ngos from time to time, you might know that ngos are the first to be involved in creating more transparency. but i get the impression that you're not really interested in this, that you're actually trying to bully organizations whose political opinions don't suit you. you'd like to have some kind of attitude police for civil society. because if you really wanted transparency, you and the epp would have been able to vote for it every time we discussed transparency here, even ngos. but when it came to the disclosure of lobbying meetings also with ngos when it came to making the final recipients of eu money more transparent also from ngos with so many transparency issues that we have discussed here in recent years, the epp had big concerns the free mandate. the commission has not yet taken any further steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the implementation of the budget. you tried all this five years ago. now try again under the cover of catargate. it probably helped that you weren't present at the negotiations. nevertheless, this report is ultimately a failed attempt to defame civil society. and that is why we will vote against it here. i can tell you i look forward to the campaign, to the many appointments at caritas, volunteer firefighters, chambers of commerce, all the associations and associations that you can then explain to them why you're putting them under general suspicion.
in the name of the id faction. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. mr pieper, i welcome your report on transparency and accountability of ngos. it is an important step towards reviewing these organisations, a sector that has been operating for too long without sufficient supervision. the report, however, has important gaps in its present form. we are trying to close them with our amendment, at least in part. but we must not stand idly by. it is of course necessary and important to make ngos more accountable, to increase transparency and to control the use of funds more effectively. but we must not ignore other problems that exist. the colleague has already mentioned one thing: it needs to be made clear what an ngo is that we fund. in 2022, ngos received at least €2.6 billion from the eu. but, by definition, experts say, it could be 3.6 billion. i don't think it can stay that way. secondly, i think it is a mistake to force member states to give control powers to the eu when ngos receive money from the member state. the budgetary and audit powers of national parliaments and bodies of account shall not be restricted. and thirdly, i'm concerned that it's just certain ngos that are increasingly interfering in government actions. they are biting the hand that feeds them, even though they are not democratically legitimized. this is definitely not a strengthening of democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have not agreed to this report. we will not agree to this report here either. why? why? for two simple reasons: first, i personally disagree with reports that are blinding, and i disagree with reports that make civil society the scapegoat of our problems. this report is blinking because it sets demands on ngos that have been around for a long time. the commission has repeatedly confirmed, even today, that the requirements laid down in this report are already in the rules of procedure. and here we are on the subject of scapegoat: whoever stylizes ngos that are part of our democracy into the mainstream of corruption, whoever uses catargate not to address corrupt politicians but to use it to attack our civil society, has not understood the fundamentals of our democracy. and that is why we will not agree with this report, no matter how softly it is washed in the final result.
in the name of the id faction. the commission has already taken a number of steps. so you want to talk about the humanitarian situation of the people of gaza. a population that, according to a recent poll, one in two would vote for hamas terrorists and over 70 percent would approve of the brutal attack on israel, in which more than 1,200 innocent men, women and children were massacred. a hamas that is also building its terrorist network in europe. it would be better if they were to intensively deal with the terrible humanitarian situation of the 136 israeli hostages who have been held by the islamic slaughterhouses for more than three months. people who are tortured and humiliated. and we should talk about a palestinian authority providing billions for a so-called martyr fund, which pays the lifetime terror pensions to the family of suicide bombers or the martyrs imprisoned in israel, that is, to palestinian terrorists, murderers and criminals, like the family of the murderer of hallel yaffa ariel, a 13-year-old israeli girl who was stabbed in her sleep by a martyr. this terrorist fund will exist as long as the eu and above all germany feed these autonomous authorities abundantly with tax money and as long as you are concerned solely with the humanitarian situation of israel's enemies, who are also enemies of our western democratic values and our freedom.
mr president, dear colleagues, the beginning of this year mirrors the tragic end of the last one, with people in gaza suffering and israelis fearing for their loved ones. what are we doing? wearing flags or scarves, accusing each other of being loyal to the wrong side. but, colleagues, let’s not lose sight of what is at stake. hopes for lasting peace in the region are shattered again. palestinians are dying on an unprecedented scale – survivors facing hunger, disease and cold. israel has the right to self-defence and to bring its hostages home. at the same time, civilians in gaza have the right to protection and humanitarian aid. the crucial question is: how can both be achieved? this is the debate we need to have with israelis, with palestinians, with our arab partners – but before all, it seems, among us. many in the region count on the european union to play a responsible role. let’s start to live up to this.
mr president, i want to speak to you. in order to influence the situation in gaza from the outside, political and military weight is needed, in addition to diplomatic pressure. the commission is missing all this. what the commission must do in the future is to ensure that the unrwa palestinian refugee agency is closed immediately and all financial aid is stopped. a telegram group of 3,000 unrwa teachers not only glorified the terrorist acts of october 7, but even called for further terrorist attacks on civilians. unrwa serves as the ideological forge of hamas. palestinian children are being vaccinated against hatred of israel, financed by european taxpayers, and this must stop! any support for the palestinian population, such as aid supplies, should only be provided under the protection of armed forces. but these aid measures must not fall into the hands of the terrorist hamas. if the eu is to make a real contribution to peace, it must finally end its support for the palestinians completely and permanently.
mr president, we are mourning for countless palestinian innocent victims. so many children. so many civilians. we are mourning for israeli victims of hamas pogroms. baked babies, women raped to death again and again. committed by a criminal organisation now hiding behind palestinian children. shooting missiles on israeli civilian cities. we need to ask ourselves where our responsibility lies, for more humanitarian aid, more pressure on israel to make this humanitarian aid accessible for more restraint of israel and more humanitarian law respect. our responsibility for being too passive in any attempts to reach a durable and just two-state solution. during the last years, our responsibility for tolerating hamas, a leadership in gaza with a genocidal ideology, and our responsibility today to help palestinians, but not by pouring fuel into fire by using unverified figures, with populist tiktok diplomacy, which helps to get more likes rather than more help for palestinians. we must engage immediately in the region for a durable two-state solution, instead of projecting our own demons on victims of our own european genocides.
in writing. the dramatic humanitarian situation in the gaza strip requires urgent action. since the brutal terrorist attack by hamas, the israeli army's response has turned the conditions of the civilian population, over 70% of whom are women and children, into hell. the ocha data shows a territory on its knees: 23,000 dead, including 10,000 children, 60,000 wounded and almost two million displaced. who has more than 600 health workers and patients killed in hospitals, two thirds of whom have been destroyed, or 30% of civilian infrastructure. the deaths of over 140 un staff members have set a record. in addition, at least 330 palestinians have been killed in the west bank by israeli forces and settlers, while the risk of regional escalation in the middle east is increasing. we must make an unreserved commitment to humanitarian assistance and call for a decisive end to this spiral of violence. the european union must act with one voice to promote a permanent ceasefire and to initiate a political solution based on the coexistence of two sovereign and democratic states. it will be difficult to imagine a future of security and peace for israel and palestine by taking different roads.
the following table lists the report on eu-india relations by alviina alametsa on behalf of the foreign affairs committee, on a recommendation from the european parliament to the council, the commission and the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy (2023/2128(ini) (a9-0435/2023):
rapporteur. – madam president, dear listeners, dear colleagues, i am honoured to present the parliament’s recommendation to the council, commission and the high representative for foreign affairs on the eu-india partnership. the relationship between the eu and india, the most populous country and fifth largest economy in the world, is increasingly important. both india and the eu are needed in the fight against climate crisis and in advancing global security. the partnership is necessary, for example, for development and transformation to sustainable energy, for promotion of human rights and democracy and rules-based international order in the indo-pacific region and elsewhere. the current eu-india roadmap that guides our partnership with india will conclude next year. now is the right time to step up our ambitions for the future and discuss them in the high-level summit in new delhi. these themes were also discussed widely during our visit to new delhi and mumbai in december with the european parliament delegation. i thank everyone for this trip. india and the eu share many challenges, from the climate and ecological crisis to security, environment and rapid global technological developments. now, more than ever, we need international cooperation. we need international diplomacy. india can also be our partner in strengthening our diplomacy with others. it is able to speak with the voice of the global south, and able to help us break the north-south divide and work more together globally. we also need very strong parliamentary cooperation. as highlighted in our report, we should explore ways to establish a structured interparliamentary dialogue between this parliament and our indian counterparts. we found this very beneficial, for example, during our journey in india. cooperation between the eu and india has to be based on shared values, promoting democracy, the rule of rule of law, human rights and international law and always, always aiming to improve the lives of our citizens. we must address the issues of human rights and democracy that are prevalent and bring them to the heart of our partnership. it might be difficult, but it is something that the eu has to work for, as well as india. i would like to thank all of my colleagues for their cooperation in developing this recommendation. i trust that together we have created a report that this parliament can stand behind, and i am very much looking forward to listening to all of the contributions from my colleagues to this debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, on behalf of high representative borrell, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, ms alametsä, and all those members who have actively contributed to the report on eu-india relations. the european union wants to continue deepening its strategic partnership with india. india is now the most populated country in the world and has significant economic potential. india’s geopolitical positioning and domestic policy choices, particularly on climate and environmental issues, have implications for the indo-pacific region, and indeed for the rest of the world. it is in the context of india’s steady rise and regional and global power dynamics that we should assess the strategic partnership between the eu and india. broadly speaking, eu relations with india are expanding and enjoying positive momentum. as the rapporteur points out, our strategic partnership with india is guided by a bilateral political framework – the roadmap to 2025 – which guides joint action in many policy areas to further strengthen our relationship. the implementation of the roadmap is continuously monitored and well advanced. the eu and india have a common interest in each other’s security, prosperity and sustainable development, and together can contribute to a safer, cleaner and more stable world. last year, we witnessed the magnitude and success of india’s g20 presidency, and we recognise india’s efforts to put the priorities and concerns of developing countries high on the agenda. let me continue by highlighting some recent achievements of our deepening partnership. the relaunch of negotiations for an eu free trade agreement with india was a momentous development, back in 2022. there have now been six rounds of talks, with both sides prioritising a comprehensive and ambitious trade agreement as the outcome. the eu and india also established a ministerial-level trade and technology council, ttc, in may 2023, in order to give high-level political steering to our cooperation in strategic issues at the nexus of trade, trusted technology and security. we expect to hold the next meeting soon. in 2021, the eu and india adopted a connectivity partnership and together with the eu’s global gateway strategy and the european investment bank, we are making progress in key sectors such as energy, urbanisation, digitalisation and transport. in addition, the eu is strengthening its cooperation with india on security and defence with regular thematic dialogues, joint naval exercises and closer cooperation in the indo-pacific. honourable members, while our relations with india are experiencing an overall positive trajectory, we are conscious of the reports about the deteriorating human rights situation and shrinking civil society space, which are addressed at length in your report. i would like to reassure you that human rights are indispensable elements in eu foreign policy towards all our partners, india being no exception. in this context, let me highlight that the eu is the only external partner with whom india has a dedicated human rights dialogue. we attach great importance to this dialogue and the ability to have genuine discussions with india as strategic partners, even on sensitive issues like this one. in conclusion, with the world facing major geopolitical challenges, india remains a crucial strategic partner for the eu. our ability to strategically navigate the 21st century and work together on key priorities will bring great benefits to both europe and india, and to the rest of the world.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, colleagues, that india is an important trading partner, there’s no doubt, and under the good stewardship of rapporteur alametsä, for a change, all the political parties agreed on this report without many changes. that shows how much importance we give to, i would say, a new day. why is it a new day? because we have huge geopolitical shifts going on. today, china and russia are not looked at the same way we looked at them ten years ago. india is now seen not only as a trade and a cultural partner, but as a strategic partner that perhaps could take the place of our past partners and present partners like china and others. the country, we agree, is a stabilising force in the indo-pacific region. it is important that it keeps major sea routes open and provides stability and security in the region as a whole. we call for redoubling of the efforts in non-proliferation for nuclear weapons and, in a relatively energy-deficient country, we still ask it to reduce its dependence on russian oil. but i think we need to propose alternative energy as the replacement. india is a natural partner for the greening of the globe. its technical proficiency and technical advances in renewable energy are an obvious area for mutual cooperation. solar panels, pumped storage, cheap hydrogen and significant digital expertise are a strong foundation for creating a more competitive europe and a more competitive india. in keeping with the emphasis that europe places now on human rights – something that it didn’t do 20 or 30 years ago in its trade agreements – it would be remiss if we did not take a strong stance on these issues. our report points out significant deviations from the strict norms of a full western-style democracy. we do not expect a country with such a great history and tradition to move suddenly into the nirvana of a democratic world. however, we do expect the largest democracy in the world to move forwards and not to move backwards with respect to human rights and rule of all. over time, we hope it comes closer and closer to the values that we hold dear. to quote from the report itself ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in the name of the renew faction. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. we are discussing today the important paper, the european union's cooperation with india. i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, above all for their good cooperation. because we actually made a report that i think is excellent. and, commissioner, thank you very much for your opening words, because you have actually extended the report once again. we have in this report excellent recommendations from parliament to the council, the commission and the foreign minister. i would be very happy if this excellent report were to be put into effect there too and we could improve the future relations between the european union and india. we all know that india is now the most populous country in the world. and we need india as a partner in the future for which i would like to say expanding our economic cooperation so that we can reduce the individual and above all the cluster risk in economic cooperation with china. i am convinced that we are on the right track here with india and we have also addressed the problems with india, but we also need india as a partner in the indo-pacific. i therefore thank you for your constructive cooperation.
- madam president, please. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. neither the eu elections nor the elections in india have suddenly fallen from the sky, and it is incredible that the eu has failed to track a trade agreement in time, as it has done with the us, and especially with india. india is such a geopolitically extremely important partner in the region and in the world. we cannot afford to continue to exploit this potential. india is a society that strives for progress, with smart minds and a rapidly developing market. there is such a huge potential, even for our european companies, in the field of sustainability alone. trade and technology, european investment and knowledge exchange could explosively advance renewable energy such as hydrogen or solar. and we hear a lot from mrs von der leyen's commission about economic sovereignty. we cannot achieve economic independence through protectionism. we need more trading with more partners. it makes us more independent. and that is why we need a free trade offensive now, and a trade agreement with india in particular.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commissioner has already said that the commissioner is not going to be able to take any further action. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. this report is well structured, covers all the key points and addresses the problems of citizenship from different perspectives. we have remained close to the original spirit of the treaties in this report. what do i mean, "i'm not a man"? it was necessary to raise awareness of citizenship in the union itself, taking into account the lives and everyday lives of citizens. and it has once again shown itself that european policy must become more concrete. in addition to a more concrete policy, it is important to me to take everyone with me. i am particularly concerned about the young generation in view of the european elections. to better reach them, i expect an investment in the new generation. this means, in particular, making more intensive use of social media, talking more about europe with new digital tools, engaging in genuine political exchange about our common values. the latest eurobarometer survey shows that citizens are very aware of their european rights, such as freedom of movement. at the same time, there is no awareness of common citizenship and belonging when they vote in the european elections. the european elections in june are an immediate and concrete challenge. how many citizens actually vote? how many people say: i am concerned about europe and its rights and obligations. i hope so many. the epp group is ready to continue its good cooperation and is asking for approval for this report.
mr president, i want to speak to you. without more migrants, the eu will starve, said commissioner ylva johansson last week. professor raffelhüschen, germany's most renowned retirement expert, disagrees: migration as before costs germany at least 5.8 trillion euros in total, far more than the german economic output of a year. this amount is the result of the costs of integration and social assistance and the difference between the fiscal contribution of migrants and the benefits they receive. the bottom line is that even the smartest immigration policies are priceless. raffles literally: if we keep going as we have, we're dumb as straw. europe needs an immediate stop to asylum, limited access to the social system for only domestic citizens and extensive remigration. the french parliament has recently made a good start. the new immigration law makes it more difficult to become a citizen and facilitates the deportation of serious criminals and illegal migrants. the european parliament now wants to deprive member states of this right by harmonizing national citizenship law. the aim is to make the mass migration of leyen and johansson irreversible. if you bring calcutta here, you will not help calcutta, but you will become calcutta yourself. their policies are turning europe into an emerging country, moving from the first to the third world.
mr president, i want to speak to you. in italy, hundreds of fascists are saying hello to hitler. what about prime minister meloni? she's not talking! in germany, the afd meets with the identity movement and with financially powerful entrepreneurs to organize the deportation of millions of people, including germans, from germany. and i say this clearly and clearly: we stand behind all citizens of europe, regardless of their skin colour and their parents' place of birth! we know how many millions of people have died, how much unimaginable suffering and destruction this ethnic extremism has brought to europe. so now is the time to do everything possible to counter this anti-humanist movement as a resilient democracy! minorities who attack our democracy to enforce their racist ideology have always existed. but they can only win if the majority allows it, and the majority clearly says: we support democracy! and that is why it is high time that it stands up now, even on the streets, for democracy, for fundamental rights and for the freedom of all citizens. and rely on it that's what we'll do!
mr president, i want to speak to you. it is often reported in the newspapers that in recent days afd politicians have met with far-right extremists in potsdam. and i want to say that there were just far-right extremists there. i think that is an important difference for me, because i think we need to make clear that far-right parties are sitting in parliaments themselves and that their ideology is spreading. and if that's not a reason to oppose it decisively, well, then i wonder why some even conservatives who might think it would be strategically unhelpful to oppose it are so silent. this silence against right-wing extremism must never be repeated in europe. because when it comes to the nice-sounding word remigration, it's not about a few more returns. it's about ethnic cleansing, about people wanting back a time that should never be there again. and when it comes to far-right extremists, it's not that they might have just made a sneaky speech on tiktok against the greens, but that they want to dissolve the diversity that makes up europe, that they want to return to a world that has already brought europe to its abyss. this situation must never return to normal. never again is now... (the president deprives the speaker of his speech.)
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. we have the right to decide whether we want to continue to allow these blackmail maneuvers to be stopped and that they are not possible in the future. and it has been said here many times, it was a dark hour of european politics that orbán was successful with his blackmail maneuver. that only encourages others to do the same. and mrs. von der leyen, she can dress it in beautiful words, but the citizens outside understand what blackmail is when they see one. i would like to say that the commissioner has not yet made a decision on the matter. a reform proposal is on the table, but out of fear of the goalkeeper before the eleventh meter it is not even discussed. we are making a clear resolution, including on the steps that are now possible. i would like to say one more word about ukraine here, because, in fact, there have been positive reforms. but we must also see that right now in ukraine workers' rights and trade union rights are being undermined, and i ask the commission to make sure that this does not happen, because it is part of democracy and they are moving further and further away from our social acquis here. it can't be. and so to conclude, we cannot allow the u.s. chamber of commerce to initiate such legislation in ukraine. we must ensure that ukraine is also compatible with europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. ursula von der leyen has repeatedly said that it was impossible not to release the billions because viktor orbán had fulfilled all the demands of the european commission. lady of the leyen, that's not true! they released 10 billion euros in the emergency procedure just hours before the summit because it vetoed ukraine's eu accession. so you've been blackmailed. you paid the biggest bribe in the history of the european union. and now, you might argue that it was worth it: what do we care about orbán when we open the historic path for ukraine to the european union? but i am afraid that we will end up both hurting the rule of law in the european union and the process of ukraine's accession. because if you spend 10 billion euros on the autocrat's veto, it's probably not going to be cheaper for orbán in the future. and he has 72 more options to veto until ukraine becomes a member. the policy you're making against viktor orbán is wrong. they're just making the problem worse. the rule of law in hungary is still broken. orbán has not met the milestones, and he has even introduced you to the maximum. in the decision to introduce these sham reforms to the judiciary, he has also launched the next attack on the rule of law and democracy, the sovereignty law. he shouldn't have gotten 10 billion. and that's why we're going to the european court of justice and we're going to sue you. i'll see you in court. (the speaker agrees to a question on the blue card procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i don't understand the question. but your political friends in poland have just lost the election. i think that's a thing that's flourishing for many of you in europe. they make false promises, they tell lies and, above all, they steal billions of euros from european citizens. and they'll notice that, and they'll remove you from office democratically. and then we can enjoy the rule of law, democracy and free elections in europe again, if the ghost is finally gone in hungary.
mr president, i want to speak to you. two days ago, former us president donald trump won the first republican primary in iowa. and the bitter truth is that he could possibly be president of the united states again in a year. and we have to prepare for that, and we don't. the preparation also includes an eu budget that is capable of action and with which we can invest. the commission believes that we need 620 billion euros of additional investment to make our economy competitive and climate-friendly. what we do have, however, is a budget that whistles from the last hole. mr scholz, mr emmanuel macron and, unfortunately, mr donald tusk are not yet ready to spend even a single cent more on investment. europe's response to the inflation reduction act is to air booking. and yes, on the other side, donald trump's best friend in the european union, viktor orbán, is dancing with joy at the table. and that is why, to protect our democracy and the rule of law, we are appealing as the european parliament. and we must further isolate orbán in other steps. he belongs in the council. you can't support him, but you have to show a clear edge. and we expect the european commission to do the same.
mr president, minister, commission, let me react to some of the statements that have been made in this house today. so, first of all, the commission president called this ‘the hour of democracy’ and i fully agree. but i just wonder why we start this hour of democracy with a wrapped christmas present and billions of euros for viktor orbán, an autocrat. second, i hear from mr zanni from the far right, that the far right is just filling a void. i also agree. it’s filling a void that we don’t want to go into – a place where basically you walk away from content, from policy proposals, towards populism, towards undermining judges and elections, towards a nativist propaganda. we are not afraid of your policy proposals. they are mostly thin and boring. what we are concerned about is the autocratic tendencies that we see happening in hungary at this point, and that we also see in this house, sadly, presented from time to time. so, i ask the commission to wake up, to pick a side; to take away with us, together, orbán’s veto; to suspend the hungarian presidency; and, of course, to unblock the funds for ukraine.
mr president, i want to speak to you. lady of the leyen, you've been blackmailed. they have allocated 10 billion euros for viktor orbán to go to the toilet once and start accession talks with ukraine. but he can block every step of the way and he has done it immediately with the money. so you have done little for ukraine. but instead they have distorted the rule of law in the european union as in a winter sale. you're responsible for putting 10 billion euros in corrupt pockets in hungary. they declare that all this is lawful and necessary. but you know that's bullshit. the opposite is true! as soon as the reforms were decided on paper, you released the money in the emergency procedure so that you could appease viktor orbán before the summit. this appeasement does not work, but it is damaging the rule of law in europe. you're not doing your job as a guardian of the treaties. but you support putin's disciple orbán. we will take your decision to the european court of justice. and if you continue to give money to hungary without reforms, we will put a motion of no confidence in this parliament. finish your zickzack course! first we had to force you to apply the rule of law mechanism. then you've presented yourself as a great fighter for the rule of law, and in the end you're giving up everything. finally, join us in the fight for the rule of law. otherwise, you make it clear that you don't care about values, you don't care about rules, you don't care about the rule of law in europe!
mr president, i want to speak to you. it's october 23rd and ukraine is fighting for the last time on the front in the east and south of the country. in beijing, a social chatter is taking place among friends. "we are very pleased to see you again", says president putin, who is now bombing ukrainian cities. "hungary has never resisted russia", orbán replies. it has always been our goal to expand the best contacts. i read this protocol on the kremlin page, and i seriously ask myself: mr orbán, you don't have them all anymore. they're selling out our european interests. they're crippling europe. they're blackmailing us all. everyone here in this house and in the capitals of europe. it is not a matter of games, it is an issue of the existential interests of our continent! and i will also say to the address of the commission: anyone who gets blackmailed like this will always get blackmailed. and if the blackmail money is still illegal, then fine. and that is why we will seriously examine the merits of the action against the commission in the legal affairs committee.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. i did not want to speak to viktor orbán today, exceptionally. but, dear mrs hohlmeier, if the epp, which for ten years held the protective hand over viktor orbán and made him the autocrat he is today, if the csu, which invited him as an honorary guest to its party events at this time every single year, if this party now points to others who have always fought for the rule of law and democracy and still do so today, then yes, you know this very well, that not everyone in the commission is of this opinion, you know this very well this is factually wrong and it is also indecent. what i was actually trying to say is that this european union must use the next few years to make itself resilient by abolishing the principle of unanimity and by not allowing people like viktor orbán here we are again to blackmail the eu by making it more just, by incorporating the european pillar of social rights into the treaties, by making it more democratic, by giving this house the right to take the initiative, to strengthen it as a whole. the european parliament has been very active in the field of education and training. let it be done.
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for your question. no, i don’t, and i recall when viktor orbán and his party were part of our group, myself and a former mep from sweden, gunnar hökmark, were one of the first to say that his behaviour was totally unacceptable. i’m glad that found favour eventually with the epp and he left us. we’re better off without him and europe would be better off without him as well. as i said, he is putin’s pompous puppet. we don’t need him.
mr president, i often wonder what ukrainians literally dying on the battlefield for democracy must think of us. we are debating the rule of law and orbán’s blackmailing over and over again, to no avail. ironic, to say the least. by releasing billions of funds to budapest, the commission gave into orbán’s wicked methods. with what result? and that is a serious question. the new sovereignty bill opening the door for mass surveillance in hungary? the continuing blockade of aid to ukraine? both the commission and council still seem to think that you can deal with autocrats as honest brokers. they are not. they will never stop! appeasement with autocrats in or outside the union never works. stop it! stop negotiating over the rule of law! if needed, this parliament will not shy away from serious measures. if the commission and council do not finally draw a red line, we have to.
mr president, we want the belgian presidency to continue the same path as the admittedly successful pedro sánchez presidency, with climate change, economic recovery and enlargement as its priorities. the european union must act immediately on climate change. this martyrdom has affected my country, especially the thessaly region, over the past year. preventive measures on the one hand, rapid compensation on the other. we are in favour of enlargement in the western balkans. but these countries must respect the rule of law, of which we have heard so much today from the pro-lebanon speakers, and not have phenomena like the imprisonment in albania of mayor belleris that must be released immediately. finally, european leaders must raise the bar for accuracy. we call for immediate measures to relieve the most vulnerable households. this will help to strengthen the citizens' relationship with the vision of europe.
mr president, mr vice-president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again, despite the significant progress made on ukraine's accession to the union, we have seen a council, unfortunately, held hostage by the illiberal orbán government which systematically, we must remember, uses the weapon of blackmail on the skin of the ukrainian people, betraying the values of our union. for too long we have allowed orbán to fight for freedom and rights and to use the european institutions as a propaganda megaphone, to use them only as a cash machine. we have allowed them to shape and divide the union because of its positions which are more closely linked to moscow's interests than brussels's. and we have a duty to stop this drift, not to give in to hungarian threats to the budget. and this is a warning, fellows: in the next legislature, no major european power is immune from the urgency of a major reform season, starting with the right of veto.
mr president, madam president, i am pleased to see that the european union is growing to be geopolitically relevant in the world. firstly, the migration issue, because there is no way to tackle illicit traffic and deaths at sea if legal and safe routes to the union are not agreed with the countries of origin and transit. but also, secondly, in relation to the cruel war of aggression that is being waged at the borders of europe, putin's war against ukraine, because aid to ukraine now depends on orbán's blackmail of hungary: eight years under article 7 without the council having had the courage to replicate the initiative of the european parliament. he could take that risky initiative with the rule of law so that orbán doesn't get away with it and gets the money without respecting the rule of law by four-fifths. in any case, the decision-making rule must be reformed so that a one-sided veto by a blackmailer is not possible which prevents the european union from fulfilling its purpose of being globally relevant.
mr president, after all this talk, here is the revised version of the stability pact and the so-called economic governance. with the backdrop of the so-called, as illusory, flexibility, the door is open to greater control and conditionality over the development options of states, tightening sanctions mechanisms. this is the reinforced tool for the european union to impose, in the interests of its powers and of large economic and financial groups, even greater cuts to investment in countries such as portugal; the attack on public services, labour rights and the social functions of the state. we reaffirm the urgent need to revoke the stability pact and its related instruments. it is urgent to create a pact for social progress and employment which guarantees a better future for the people, while respecting the sovereignty of each state, its economic, social and productive development, overcoming structural deficits, ensuring employment for all, raising labour and social rights, providing quality public services in health, education, social security, housing, culture, promoting effective economic, social and territorial cohesion and protecting the environment.
- your honor, the president. in fact, according to the european commission, which is the only one authorised under the treaties of the european union, hungary has fulfilled the conditions of the rule of law in the area of justice. the fact is that the european parliament has no role in this matter. it is worth mentioning that this is a political revenge campaign waged by the european left for more than a decade, because the christian democratic hungarian civil government has already won the trust of the electorate by two thirds for the fourth time. why? because hungary stands for the independence of the national state, for the strengthening of families and for freedom of expression. we're not saying what you want to hear, we're saying what we think. if you are truly on a level playing field, please stand up for polish violations. then i might believe you're really concerned about the rule of law.
- mr. president, what are you doing? i'm sorry hungary is back on the wall today. she's been a victim of double standards before. this is not good for the future of the european union. the withdrawal of voting rights seems to me to be a disproportionate, strong, strong penalty for each member state. yesterday, i must admit, i was very sad in this parliament. in this rush of hatred towards hungary, almost 80% of the members of this parliament have prevented students, young people and researchers from participating in erasmus+, i.e. hungarians. erasmus+, a programme aimed at the same cohesion in the european union for better connectivity. in a way, this is a cultural programme in which the turks, the belarusians and the hungarians are also involved, and we did not give the hungarians that opportunity to vote yesterday. i think that's unfair.
- mr. president, please. i'm hungarian, proud hungarian. they may also know that i am a hungarian of jewish descent. during the emergency, 600,000 hungarian jews, including countless of my relatives, were massacred by the nazis and the arrows. and here comes a congressman named sarvamaa, and he's gonna be slaughtering me, a son of a holocaust survivor. because that's what happened. that representative in question has given us a statement. and you, on the left of the european parliament, are enthusiastically and unanimously applauding the extremist slanderer. i'm a freedom fighter, like viktor orbán. we hungarians have personally fought against the communist dictatorship and fought for our freedom and independence. so you, on the left of the ep, who have a majority ready for freedom and who only know from textbooks what dictatorship is, you, the free and independent hungary, are dictating and illegally attacking the democratic decisions of the hungarian people. their unbridled frenzy must be stopped once and for all!
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, if the citizens had listened to this debate, which is also called a priority, they would not only be disappointed, they would be revolted. there was no word. what will the council actually do on february 1? what's the balance sheet? to the shame of the president, he left and near the end of his term, he didn't stay on the joint debate, the priority debate. what do the citizens understand? that we are interested in federalizing, in putting mr. macron's plan into practice, a two-speed europe? in fact, let's legalize it, that we have a two-speed europe, because the belgian presidency has not said anything about what will happen with schengen. is romania's schengen and bulgaria's accession finalized or not? because the commission's balance sheet is disastrous: the market is divided, the population is impoverished, the population is polarized, farmers are on the street, carriers are on the street. didn't they say anything: we help farmers, we change the common agricultural policy, we help research, the poor people? - i'm not doing anything. so this debate is a disaster, and this is my message, which i will convey to all citizens: we are not concerned about the lives of citizens.
executive vice-president of the commission. – monsieur le president, madame la ministre, i think we are gradually concluding what was indeed a very, very passionate debate this morning. most interventions focused on two topics: ukraine and hungary. first and foremost, i would like to thank you and i very much appreciate the overwhelming support for ukraine. despite the raging war, ukrainians did their utmost to prepare for accession negotiations. they expanded national minority rights, improved their judicial system and ensured checks and balances on power. lobbying bill to kerb the power of oligarchs just passed the first reading, and all this is happening under heavy missile and drone attacks on ukrainian cities. therefore, i very much appreciate your calls for mobilising financial support for ukraine and ukrainians. we will do our utmost, and i’m sure that in close cooperation with the belgian presidency to find appropriate solution at the next european council meeting on 1 february. i also heard very clearly the calls from many meps to focus also on other very important issues, be it the green deal, strategic autonomy, artificial intelligence, stronger social measures or intensifying our communications with farmers and foresters, the call for mobilising more financial resources to deal with natural disasters. all these calls and interventions just confirm how urgently we need review of multiannual financial framework. we are working very hard on this. i know that the belgian presidency is working very hard on this, and i think that support, which i heard from many of you – be it mr papandreou, mr štefanec, ms marques, mr fernandes, mr belka, ms hayer, mr moreno sánchez – just proves that this is really the issue which is coming across all aisles and that there is overwhelming support of the european parliament for urgent, speedy review of mff and for mobilising adequate financial resources for the european project. another very important and passionate issue debated this morning concerned rule of law, hungary and its access to eu funds. and you know, and i believe that all of you agree with me, that this commission put the rule of law among our top priorities. rule of law is diligently scrutinised and rule of law reports are debated at every single general affairs council and i am sure that the minister would concur with me that we spend a lot of time and the discussions are very, very detailed in that regard and concern every single member state. we also used all the instruments available to us to protect both our values and the eu’s financial interests. and last may, hungary passed a new law on justice reform which addressed a number of our recommendations from the 2022 report. and this strengthens that judicial independence and limits the possibility of political interference on judiciary. this was required for hungary to meet the conditions for cohesion funds, and on this, hungary has delivered. my colleagues, commissioners responsible for the various aspects of this dossier, already briefed the european parliament and, of course, are ready to provide further information and further clarifications any time to this house. but let’s not forget that eur 20 billion is still frozen and blocked under the conditional mechanism. so we have to respect the rules we agreed to together and this is what we are doing. but i would like to reassure everyone in this house about our utmost vigilance if it comes to this very important matter.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, dear commissioner, honourable members of parliament. first of all, thank you very much for this passionate debate just a few weeks from what will certainly be a defining moment for europe. je voudrais vous vous confier que juste avant, tôt ce matin, j'ai eu un contact téléphonique avec le ministre des affaires étrangères ukrainien, dmytro kouleba, qui m'a fait part des dernières nouvelles du terrain. ce que beaucoup d'entre nous ont suivi à distance par les images qui nous parviennent sur les réseaux sociaux ou par la télévision, les ukrainiens l'ont vécu dans leur chair. alors que nous célébrions les fêtes de fin d'année, l'armée russe a lancé, vous le savez, une offensive militaire sans précédent qui a fait de nouvelles victimes innocentes jusque dans les rues de kiev. des ukrainiens qui aspiraient – qui aspirent toujours d'ailleurs – à faire partie de la famille européenne et qui en paient le prix fort depuis bientôt maintenant deux ans. l'ukraine nous regarde, le monde nous regarde. nous devons aider l'ukraine à résister – sinon à survivre – aux attaques, aux destructions massives, et il est de notre devoir d'aboutir à une solution soutenue par l'ensemble des membres de l'union européenne. cet objectif, ce sera le nôtre. il y va de notre unité, de notre crédibilité en tant que membre fondateur de l'union européenne, en tant que présidente du conseil de l'union, la belgique y œuvrera sans relâche. assurer un soutien financier stable, prévisible et durable à l'ukraine pour la période 2024-2027 est notre priorité, et je crois que le parlement et le conseil sont d'accord sur ce point. la présidence belge se tient donc prête à dialoguer rapidement avec les corapporteurs dès le lendemain du conseil européen. nous aurons alors plus de clarté sur les modalités de financement de l'ukraine. entre-temps, et comme je l'ai dit dans mon introduction, nous menons d'importants travaux préparatoires afin d'adopter cet instrument crucial dans les plus brefs délais. let me turn now briefly back to the rule of law in hungary. respect for the rule of law is not only vital for the functioning of our union, but it is also an essential precondition for implementing the eu budget and for complying with the principle of sound financial management. as i said, the rule of law has always been a priority to us, and i am proud to say that belgium is probably one of the most vocal defenders of the rule of law in europe. we are very well aware of the legal framework for possible actions by the council and the european council provided for in article 7. a decision on recommendations would first require a voting majority of 4/5 in the council, after obtaining the consent of the european parliament. in practice, it means that a good cooperation, political will and commitment from all the institutions will be needed. at this stage, and as president of the council, we can only note that the timeline left to us to potentially move on this is very short in this election year. but as i mentioned in the beginning, i intend to stay in close talks with this assembly on the situation in hungary. s'agissant aussi de la future présidence hongroise, je me limiterai à vous dire ceci: exercer une présidence, c'est une grande responsabilité, c'est un honneur, mais c'est aussi un devoir. 20 ans après son adhésion à l'union européenne, que l'on célébrera d'ailleurs cette année en mai, il appartiendra à la hongrie de montrer qu'elle est capable d'aller au delà de ses intérêts nationaux et de se mettre au service du projet européen, comme chaque présidence le fait. c'est en tout cas dans cet esprit que nous avons pour l'instant travaillé en bonne collaboration dans le cadre du trio de présidences et j'espère qu'il en sera ainsi à l'avenir, en tout cas nous y serons vigilants. et dans le contexte géopolitique actuel, la défense de nos valeurs et de l'état de droit est cruciale et va de pair avec la bonne gestion des fonds de l'union européenne. c'est et cela restera primordial pour le conseil aujourd'hui et à l'avenir. thank you for your attention.
thank you very much, madam minister. i have received one motion for a resolution to wind up the debate on the situation in hungary and frozen eu funds. the debate is now closed and the vote will be held on thursday. (the sitting was briefly suspended for technical reasons)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the review of the economic governance framework (2024/2516(rsp)). i would like to inform members that there will be only one round of political group speakers, and therefore there is no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, honourable members, the reform of the framework for economic governance of the european union is one of the most urgent priorities of the belgian presidency. we are facing a major challenge. economic governance is an essential pillar of the architecture of economic and monetary union, as it aims to detect and correct economic imbalances that could weaken our economies. a tax agreement will therefore be a real step forward for our fiscal stability and fiscal viability. growth and employment growth will also be directly positively impacted. we are aiming to reform the framework for economic governance in the european union, our tax rules. it is important that the new rules can be applied already this year and we must be able to finish the legislative work on time. we are counting on you to meet this challenge with us and i thank you for your commitment to start our negotiations as soon as possible with the first targeted meeting starting today at 1 p.m. it is not an easy task. after very difficult negotiations at the end of last year, on 21 december, we reached agreement within the council. the commission has also adopted a number of recommendations on the implementation of the budgetary procedure. and so it is through tireless work in successive presidencies that we have managed to find a compromise that improves the existing rules. we thank the ministers for their tireless work, their dedication and their ability to unite with this text. the council's position is a delicate balance, as you know, between all the member states. we know we only have a few weeks to complete the file. this is an extremely tight schedule given the complexity and sensitivity of the subjects. but we will always be listening, of course, to find the final agreement needed. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. – monsieur le président, madame la ministre, honourable members, the review of the economic governance framework has been a key commitment of this commission, and the reform has long been due from our first public consultation in february 2020 before the covid pandemic to the ambitious proposal we put forward in april of last year. last month, we reached an important milestone with the general approach in the council. even if clearly deviating from the commission’s proposal on some aspects, this was a significant step forward, and today we are reaching another major milestone in this house. let me thank the rapporteurs and all the committees involved for their hard work. as we look ahead to the trilogues that will start this afternoon, it will be crucial to preserve the logic of our proposals, especially in four respects. first, moving to a risk-based, differentiated approach to ensure realistic and sustainable debt reduction. second, building in strong incentives for investments and reform to support sustainable growth. third, strengthening national ownership. and fourth, developing credible enforcement mechanisms. the commission stands ready to facilitate the upcoming negotiations, aware of the importance of the role the parliament will play in the decision process. but let me be clear, there is not much time to deliver. as the minister representing the presidency just said, with the european elections approaching and the recent deactivation of the general escape clause and the reintroduction of the pre-existing rules, it is both important and urgent that we finalise this dossier and provide clarity and predictability to fiscal policy. because we all know the limits of the old rules that are the existing rules. in the current uncertain economic and geopolitical environment, let us not lose sight of the ultimate goal: a reform framework that allows for gradual debt reduction while making space for the massive public investments that europe needs to successfully address the challenges before us.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i think ‘you cannot escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today’ pretty much sums up the core of the debate on the economic governance framework. we need to take responsibility to protect the credibility of the union and the stability of the eurozone by agreeing on new rules that are realistic and can be and will be respected and enforced. this is why the commission made a proposal that is more country-specific when it comes to achieving sustainable debt levels, which i welcome. this is why parliament – in our negotiating position for which we asked for this house’s mandate today – introduces some additional flexibility to maintain room for much-needed investments in the key priorities of the union, and i thank my rapporteur margarida marques and the shadows who made this possible. now there will be those on the extreme right and the extreme left of the house that will vote against the mandate to deliver this better framework: no surprises there. what i find more regrettable is the position of the greens: strong supporters of the euro, but against the very rules needed to keep it strong and stable. very much like having your cake and eating it. more regrettable also because the additional room for investments and the capacity to react to unforeseen circumstances needed so much for the green transition are part of the new framework and are part of parliament’s mandate. yes, ‘sustainability’ – or ‘stewardship’, as i call it as a christian democrat – means respecting our planet. but it also means not burdening next generations with unsustainable levels of debt. you cannot escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a large majority in this house recognizes the climate emergency and has voted to commit to carbon neutrality by 2050. at the same time, the russian aggression is confronting us with the need for a major effort to support ukraine and ultimately for our own defence. not so long ago, the pandemic reminded us of the urgency of reinvesting our essential utilities, starting with health. all this will require the government to invest at least two percentage points of gdp each year for the next quarter of a century. it is obviously crucial that some of these investments are financed by an increased contribution from large companies and large assets which still play their part in the tax game. however, it is inevitable that the bulk of these expenses will be financed by borrowing. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the budgetary procedure, which is a very important one. and it is not the three years of rest negotiated by the council or the few miseries achieved by this parliament that change anything in the equation. mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has not yet been able to achieve a european leadership in the already well-established green industrial revolution. the power to prevent russia's victory in ukraine. the vote on these rules will also mean, by means of dark cuts in public services and social security, that these rules will require, further undermining the cohesion of our societies and pushing more and more of our citizens into the arms of national-populists. voting for these rules is a slow suicide for the european union, environmental, economic, geopolitical and democratic. voting for these rules is like cutting our wings off right when we have to take off. in july 1940, winston churchill was alone in europe to face the axis powers. this is an isolation that our union could well experience in a few months if the united states were to choose nationalist retreat. if the british prime minister at the time had been subjected to the inept budgetary rules we are preparing to adopt, he would have had no choice but to give up the fight, with the disastrous consequences imagined. the situation in the european union today is no less serious. in contrast to ideological fundamentalism, it requires a strategic viewpoint on our part. so let us reject this text and start, from the beginning of the next term, the development of budgetary rules rooted in reality, combined with real common investment capacity on the model of the post-covid recovery plan. they will equip us to meet the challenges of our time.
the commission has also been asked to take a decision on the implementation of the budgetary procedure. in recent years, budgets have been created at european level to solve various problems and legislation has been adopted which will cost a lot of money. however, the world around us has also changed dramatically in recent years. europe is not living in a geopolitical bubble. it's hard to wake up on that level and we've been too naive on that one for far too long. all this means that we need to think carefully about how we will spend the precious tax money. we are now facing a major shift in expenditure, and if we want to continue to play some geopolitical role of significance. we must reduce budget deficits and stop the debt building. those who oppose this are not only putting a time bomb on future prosperity but also on the survival of monetary union. whatever it takes has its limits in monetary policy. economic growth is crucial for sound budgets in these challenging times. without growth, there will be only a static redistribution, and this will further intensify social relations, which are already quite tense in many respects today. so please stop pleading for degrowth. finally, the flow of state aid within the european union is also problematic. hundreds of millions of dollars in subsidies for german and french industry, while the position of the smaller member states is simply ignored. this is unfair competition and unfair competition undermines the single market, one of the foundations of the european union.
in the name of the id faction. the commission has already taken a number of steps. with the introduction of the euro, the eu chose a hard currency modelled on the german d-mark, with low inflation and a central bank that protects savers and pensioners, makes debt more difficult and encourages growth. the commission has agreed on clear debt rules and an inflation target of less than 2%. in a symbolic way, frankfurt became the seat of the ecb. after 25 years of euro, we have record inflation and record debt. the maastricht debt rules are being disregarded. europe is in stagnation, with the lowest economic growth in the developed world. the standard of living of the majority is falling faster than ever. the euro has been liralized and the debt has been weighed down. and as with the dublin asylum rules, which fail only because they are ignored, now the debt rules should be relaxed because they were never applied for political reasons. in the future, each state should have its own customized, flexible debt rules. the result: the debt spiral is further heated, as even higher individual debt is all shared by higher inflation, which devalues savings and income throughout the euro area. debt can create growth by encouraging investment in future technologies. but your debt policy here is financing climate change and mass migration with exponential rising costs without added value. former ecb chairman draghi once said that the euro is a miracle like the bumblebee that flies, even though it cannot, according to the laws of aerodynamics. the bumblebee does indeed fly, but not by will, but in accordance with natural laws. the president interrupts the speaker.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the stability pact is perhaps one of the most important tasks of this parliament, but unlike the next generation eu, we are in danger of a somewhat cattoparctic solution here: we wanted everything to change, but in the end, unfortunately, everything remains too much like it was before. why? why? the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from the risks of the environment, which is to be implemented by the member states, is to be adopted by the commission. until a year ago, we were talking about lessons learned from the post-crisis stagnation of sovereign debt and, finally, the pandemic we have unfortunately experienced, but we may have sung victory too soon. i want to be clear. the commission has not yet taken any further steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to the same extent as those of the member states. it is essential to be able to invest to make ourselves competitive in global markets, but with these rules, let me say, it will be very difficult, if not impossible. without a strategic sovereignty fund, which is still a mirage to come, without a common federal budget and given the huge differences in taxation and spending possibilities, we risk eroding the economic and social stability of our union. it is regrettable that the italian government, instead of defending itself intelligently and hard and making alliances, has become involved in an absurd and incomprehensible controversy between meloni and conte over the esm, instead of putting all its weight on the strategic objective which was precisely that of reforming the stability pact. i say to those who celebrate this pact as a great victory today: be very careful! do not think of returning home the enemy's scalp for the short-term electoral consent of the next election, because the future of integration is at stake, with the goals of ecological and digital transition. it is the growth of our union that you are putting on your knees today. do we want this to be the end of the beginning, or rather the beginning of the end? it will be up to us to decide but certainly, today, the message we receive is not what we would like to see.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes.)
rapporteur. – mr president, i request the plenary to refer the file back to envi for interinstitutional negotiations.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. today, the largest producer of solar panels in europe, meyer burger, announced that it is leaving europe. this is a wake-up call. why? why? because the solar industry creates millions of jobs, just like other energy transition industries, heat pumps, battery cells, electrolysis, etc. these are the good and secure jobs of tomorrow, the jobs that feed and provide security for many people and families. but the us with the inflation reduction act has much better conditions than europe. the eu net-zero industry act is not a trigger, it is half-hearted and weak. we're losing this race for the future industries right now. we have a responsibility in this house to keep the good jobs in europe. there's no security when you stick your head in the fossil sand and pretend the challenges aren't there. we have to be able to solve the problems. this means that we must face the reality of the fossil climate crisis and finally see the transition to climate neutrality as an opportunity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. let's win this race. let us ensure that the solar industry in europe has a future. let us ensure that the industries of the future provide millions of safe and good jobs for our european citizens.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. quality jobs, high-quality jobs, what is this? is it the it guy, the auto mechanic? or is it the woman sitting at the checkout and checking out our purchase? what are professionals? the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of workers' rights. it doesn't always have to be a graduation. we must not argue elitistly. we need everyone and we need everyone in the european union. we're an ageing continent and we need all kinds of professionals. we must invest in inclusive, valued, self-rewarding activities. we must not put eu funds into institutions or jobs that are clearly against human rights. i expect much more commitment from the commission to come. we need to invest in inclusion companies, but we also need the foreign professionals. and at the end of the day, the name must not matter whether the person is from ukraine or the syrian refugee. all people are equal here. we need them for a strong europe.
mr president, mr commissioner, a productive system can only compete in the medium and long term, be resilient and robust, sustainable and viable if it provides affordable goods and services to people who live with dignity and enjoy the same opportunities. quality jobs are therefore the main instrument for social inclusion and human development. the digital and climate revolution we are facing requires knowledge and skills. the transition to an emissions-neutral economy is therefore impossible with underemployment, an injustice which coincides with the fact that 77 per cent of european firms report having difficulty finding qualified people for new occupational profiles. the solution to this paradox requires the promotion of a continuous and efficient, predictive training, connected to the real needs of our productive tissue and focused not only on professional but also on cross-cutting skills. it also includes better talent management and a commitment to the social economy. and a regulation and control that prevents the abuses that degrade the labour market today. these are the foundations of a just transformation and a just transition.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. we are talking about quality jobs in the european union. but i'm telling you, work has to be worth it. we need to discuss that. it is not possible that in the european union both men and women work for families husband, wife money is not enough at 40 hours a week per person to feed the family, and you still need friends and acquaintances to get through the rounds. - that can't be right. we need to talk about inflation. and another big issue is that politics doesn't create jobs. we have to realize that. we need to create a framework for entrepreneurs to create jobs. politics is not creating jobs. if we want to create jobs, we can do that in education so that people are trained rationally. but we also need to make it clear to them in the social world that this dream is best fulfilled with a pay balance of 28 hours a week, only two days a week and that we are winning a global race for prosperity, which is total bullshit. we must give people pure wine: we must work. the commission has already decided to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the work of the member states.
member of the commission. – mr president, well, i thank you very much for this very lively and very rich debate on the different aspects of the european economy. we all agree that we are in an economic environment which needs us to improve and further develop our competitiveness. competitiveness means better technology, investing in technology, investing in productivity, investing also in knowledge. this is the competitiveness of the future. competitiveness is not a finality by its own. it has to have an objective and the objective is to make europe stronger. but also to make europeans better off, all europeans. so there is the need also for the social aspect. i’m very happy that now we do not talk any more about creating jobs. we are talking about creating quality jobs. so it is not anymore what was the mantra some years ago when we talked about any job is better than no job. now the objective is to create quality jobs, to be competitive, to be innovative, but also for social justice and social inclusion. but what does it mean – somebody asked that – quality jobs? it is not just about engineers. it is not just about professors. it is not just about intellectual work. it is also about the millions and millions of workers every day, but also they have the right to have quality in their job, to have the right to be recognised, to have the right to have fair working conditions. and as we are in europe, in a situation where finally we are lacking people, we have to protect work; we have to protect the workers, their health, their skills, which we have to develop. so that’s a quality job. is a platform worker who has a very low salary remuneration, who has no social protection, who has no right to have holidays, at least paid holidays – is that a quality job? i don’t think so. so i think this is where we have to improve our own commitment to create quality jobs. and what has been said about the social environment, about a fair balance between work and free time and family – that’s what makes a job a quality job.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only add to what has just been said. by improving the quality of jobs, working conditions and training, we not only strengthen the resilience of our economy but also affect the social fabric as a whole. the development of skills, the feeling of empowerment at work, simply influences workers' productivity and, by extension, democratic participation and wellbeing of citizens. we note with satisfaction that parliament is determined to promote the social market economy. parliament plays a key role in supporting the principles of the european pillar of social rights and contributes to creating a strong social europe that is centred on citizens and their well-being. it is important that we join forces so that the labour market we are shaping is not only a thriving market in the face of global competition, but also a market where dignity, where the flourishing of our working population is a priority.
that concludes the item.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission communication on norway's recent decision to continue deep-sea exploration in the arctic (2024/2520(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, as you know, on 9 january, the norwegian parliament decided to advance seabed mining in their continental shelf and extended continental shelf, some of which is in the arctic. by doing so, norway becomes the first country in the world to pave the way for commercial deep-sea mining. the commission’s position on deep-sea mining in international seabed is very clear, and as stated in the eu biodiversity strategy for 2030 and our international ocean governance agenda adopted in june 22, we advocate for prohibiting deep-sea mining until scientific gaps are properly filled. commission remains committed to this position until it is demonstrated that no harmful effects arise from mining. furthermore, as required under the united nations convention on the law of the seas, the necessary provisions in the exploitation regulations for the effective protection of the marine environment must be in place. this strong and long-standing position is science-based. the european union, via its research and innovation framework programmes, has invested more than eur 80 million in research projects related to the impacts of deep-sea mining to the marine environment and to environmentally friendly technologies. studies clearly show that our current understanding of deep-sea ecosystem functioning and recoverability is still very limited, and that there is considerable uncertainty about the effects of mining on these processes. long-term studies are needed to gauge the full range of impacts of mining on ocean biodiversity and ecosystem services, and their potential for recovery. our concerns with deep-sea mining therefore relate to the protection and restoration of the marine environment, deep-sea biodiversity and the mitigation of climate change. as you know, nature does not respect our geographical barriers. impacts of activities propagate beyond legal boundaries. we are very concerned by norway’s decision and by the consequences it could have on the environment, including on fish stocks in that area. while it is norway’s sovereign right to start exploring and/or mining the deep seabed on its continental shelf and extended continental shelf, the water column above the extended continental shelf is high seas. the high seas are now regulated by the newly agreed international legally binding instrument, which we call bbnj, or treaty of the high seas, signed both by the european union and norway. the need to ensure sustainable use of marine biological diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction was what brought us this agreement. this must be considered as well as other international obligations of norway, for instance under the paris treaty regarding svalbard, together with the management of the fishing stocks in that area. moreover, norway is a contracting party to the so-called ospar convention for the protection of the marine environment of the north-east atlantic, including arctic waters, against the adverse effects of human activities. to this purpose, a roadmap to better protect the arctic has been developed. commission remains vigilant and fully committed to the protection of our ecosystems, whether on land or in the seas, whether here in europe or in the global arena. that, after all, has always been one of the key pillars of the green deal.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of the sea as a source of energy. the international maritime authority has also been working for a long time on guidelines now announced for 2025. since last week we have now had the situation that a very large majority of our colleagues in the norwegian parliament have decided, on the initiative of the socialist government, to examine their seabed for critical raw materials. the rich, democratic, rule of law-based, mining-experienced and environmentally renowned norway, with which we as the eu are connected through the european economic area and a free trade area, has made this sovereign decision for its economy. so it could be that in a few years we could get critical raw materials from norway instead of china, russia or the congo from proven sustainable deep-sea mining. so we're going to have to answer the gretchen question: is mining on land ever better when rainforests are cut down, when children work in mines, when people are relocated? could it be that there are also minimally invasive mining technologies for the deep sea and that mining areas on the seabed can be renovated just as well as on land? our norwegian colleagues do not wish to wait any longer until all the possible effects of deep sea mining activities are scientifically examined in detail. they obviously rely on environmentally friendly mining technologies. i think we should talk about these technologies and their latest findings in person, for example in the joint parliamentary assembly, because i think that is a matter for our values partners and allies before we start any process in this parliament.
in the name of the id faction. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. i hope you're here today to look in the mirror and ask yourself, are you really proud of what you've accomplished? proud of your many applications, initiatives in this legislature? the theme that ursula von der leyen first proposed: green deal over everything. yeah, it left a deep trail. tears of joy have flowed here in this house when you declared a climate emergency, thus creating another basis for making citizens pay, pay and pay again. well, the result is seen in germany. our economy is on the ground, a bankruptcy wave is rolling over the country. at the same time, you're taking out hundreds of thousands of farmers, freight forwarders, entrepreneurs and citizens like the christmas goose. the citizens have been getting their noses peeled and they're finally going out on the streets. that's right, you're right. because it can't go on like this! the current policy in germany is increasingly interfering with our fundamental rights. this state invasion of private life is not only worrying but also dangerous. we see a policy that is directed against its own citizens, a policy of regulation, taxation, restriction without regard to the needs and rights of citizens. ladies and gentlemen, this is about much more than politics. it's about our rights, our freedom, our future. we must work together to combat this excessive regulation and interference with our fundamental rights. we must support a policy that puts the interests of the people at the centre. i 'm calling you all . stop screwing up the citizens and paying for their crazy ideological crap projects! instead of the german federal government taking note of the criticism of its policies, it slanders the protesters as extremists and constitutional enemies in order to silence them. but the people, the peasants are not the extremists. the real extremists are sitting on the german government bench. criticising the government is not unconstitutional. but a government that disregards the people and does not carry out their will is unconstitutional!
- madam president, please. the frustration has been felt in recent weeks, and even in my homeland of schleswig-holstein, many farmers have taken to the streets or paralyzed our country a little with trailers and made their anger air. i understand this very well, because in agriculture a lot of things don't work. but contrary to the political right here in this house, it's not the green deal that's to blame, but the problems go deeper. the problems are agricultural policy, which in germany, mr lins, is responsible for 31 of the 40 years of the cdu/csu, not for the greens, the social democrats or others. the problems also lie, for example, in the unfair distribution, where a few large companies make massive cash and profits and many small farmers are left empty and sitting on the cost and bureaucracy. we need a different agricultural policy. we need a quality eu support policy that promotes public tasks and not just mass. that's what agriculture is all about. and i would like to say briefly again to the far-right and mrs anderson here in the house: it is really unbearable that on the one hand you are always in favour of abolishing eu subsidies and on the other hand you are pretending to be open to farmers. they don't. at least be honest with me.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. it is a single decision in germany on agricultural diesel that has caused the barrel to overflow for farmers. the barrel of overrunning because they are just tired of being decided over their heads tired of decades of policy at national and european level always bringing new regulations into the way that brought bureaucracy. and many of these proposals have now been put forward by the von der leyen commission. we need a uniform european plant protection policy. but do we really need a plant protection regulation that makes it impossible to farm 80% of the land? does the commission really need new problems in terms of emissions protection, as we are discussing now? i do not think so, ladies and gentlemen. what we need is a culture of trust in our farmers instead of a culture of distrust. and you can see very clearly here in the european parliament who is on the farmers' side, who is voting in the european parliament's vote on this law. and i invite everyone to actually do that, because it's very informative. we, the free democrats, at least see the path we want to take. it is one of less bureaucracy and less trust in agriculture.
in the name of the s&d faction. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. personal hatred, hate crime is terrible for the victims, but it's also a threat to any peaceful society. in germany we are seeing the neo-nazis in the afd favouring deportation, people with non-german backgrounds and people who want to support them. we have seen terrible images of neo-fascists coming from italy, who want to re-invent the ideology of the 1930s. margot friedländer, a holocaust survivor, said two months ago: "that's how it started". the enemies of democracy want to achieve one thing first: their critics, all those who think differently, all those who are different than they would like, all those who they are afraid to silence. we can't let that happen! we must protect all the people who stand up, who take to the streets everywhere in germany for democracy, for humanity, for human rights. we need to protect women from being attacked online and offline. we must protect jews from the unfortunately increasing anti-semitism, muslims from islamophobia. we need to stop the rise of homosexual and transphobic crimes. we must protect people with disabilities and people of other colours who unfortunately are too often subjected to violence and discrimination. every human being must be protected from hate crime, hate speech and hate crimes. and we need to create an environment where victims can be confident in their actions and offenders can be afraid of prosecution. this applies to all member states, but in some cases it is particularly true. unfortunately, some governments feel less obligated to protect certain groups than others. this is contrary to our basic values. this is contrary to article 2 of our treaties. we need strong european protection against hate speech and hate crime. we need a decision from the council. now is the time to act.
- madam president, please. all these examples, or most of these examples, that have been brought here today for hate speech, are already being covered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the implementation of the budget. and you know exactly what this is, this is a sensitive matter we're talking about today. and i don't believe you are. i just don't believe you, knowing this house, that it won't be used to make a point that doesn't suit you. this is a very important step forward in the development of the community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. and ms barley from s&d has said it very clearly and honestly in her statement. she has called the afd here today nazis. mrs president, please include this in the minutes, even if it does not violate the dignity of the house. everything on the right is evil and must be put to death. and i would rather this house put as much energy into solving the s&d corruption scandal as it does into this topic.
in a world of increasing globalization, the current legislative and legal framework must undoubtedly be strengthened. regulation and prosecution are challenges to democratic societies that unfortunately are experiencing an increase in intolerance. i'll be referring specifically to hate speech on the internet. there are numerous examples that often present an overturn to violence. digital platforms and various closed communication groups, or channels, are fertile ground for the propagation of hate messages with often far-reaching consequences. remember the cyberbully and the girl nicole fox. we were talking about her case here in the european parliament. violence against children, too much exposure to youth violence, is a serious problem today. a survey by eu kids online found that nearly 50 percent of children were exposed to violence online. this is not a question of restricting freedom of speech. it's about protecting the right of all citizens to live without fear of discrimination, violence and hatred. freedom of speech must not become freedom to spread hatred, and that's where we make a difference.
madam president, ‘poofter’, ‘dyke’, ‘faggot’, ‘monster’: it all starts with one word, but it sadly ends with a knife, a fist, and in certain cases, a gun. this report should be a wake-up call for ministers to finally make hate speech and hate crime an eu crime. ministers were very quick some months ago to add some other crimes in this list, but why not these? you see, the commission is ready, parliament is ready, civil society is ready, our citizens are ready, but the council is the only missing one, always missing when there is a need to deliver protection of basic human rights. and even in this debate, where is the council? the presidency is not here, and not even one representative of one member state is in this chamber on this very important topic, which they have blocked for a number of months and years now. can ministers continue to turn a blind eye on the rise of hate speech all around europe, targeting in particular women, the lgbtiq community, refugees, migrants and opposing one community against another? this is unacceptable. radicalisation of far-right and conservative narratives, especially anonymously online, must be stopped by all means.
the commission and the majority of the european parliament propose that hate speech be included in the list of european crimes listed in article 83 of the treaty on the functioning of the union. i strongly oppose this for two reasons. first, because the concept of hate speech is so vague and subjective that it would open the door to censorship and political persecution. the report that we are presented with clearly shows this by giving as an example the alleged xenophobic remarks of populist movements against migrants. the commission has therefore proposed that the mere denunciation of the migration submersion be criminalized, while disregarding the freedom of expression and pluralism necessary for democratic life. secondly, the commission's proposal poses a problem of respect for the french constitution, since it takes over the terms of the avia act, which the constitutional council annulled on 18 june 2020 because of the infringement of freedom of expression. in french law, however, the national constitution is superior to all treaties, even to european ones. this was stated by the constitutional council in its decision of 19 november 2004. the european institutions therefore have no power to impose a rule on france that is considered unconstitutional.
- madam president, please! - the commissioner is here. man, where are you going, where are you falling when it comes to humanity and the values that are the cornerstones of our democracy, humanity and solidarity? where is this civilization headed? hate speech and hate crimes are direct attacks on human dignity and the integrity of society. this also undermines the fundamental values of the european union, in particular with the rise of extremism and the wide influence of social media. is it even possible and likely that some people in democratic societies beat an older impotent person, even taking pictures and collecting likes on social media? the unacceptable normalization of intolerance and discrimination requires effective action by both legislators, authorities and society as a whole.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. i am sorry that hate speech and hate crime are becoming an increasingly serious social problem and a threat to our rule of law. we must protect young people and marginalised groups from all forms of hatred. there must be no categorization here either. in particular, the internet must not be a law-free space. we must fight hate or cyberbullying with the full force of the law. but even on the open road, hate is now part of everyday life. more and more, jewish women are openly opposed to their religious affiliation. the problem is that the number of citizens who are being attacked is increasing, for example, because of disabilities. hate speech and hate crime must not become socially acceptable. we have to watch out for that. there are many construction sites here. the first step would be to set european minimum standards. i am extremely sorry that the council has not made any progress in the last two years. it is high time to act.
the rapporteur. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. the european union is a haven for democracy, a unique space of law and freedom and therefore a place of longing for millions of people worldwide. we have basic values which we all have signed up to in article 2 as member states: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. however, the state of fundamental rights in the union report for 2022 and 2023 clearly shows that protection of fundamental rights is under pressure in many eu member states. at times the common foundation of our european union seems to be fracturing. i would like to draw a few points from this comprehensive report. it was especially challenging in 2022 and '23. firstly, there was the coronavirus pandemic, but of course, there was also russia's illegal invasion of ukraine with all its consequences. this presented new challenges and tasks to the population and also to decision-makers. in times of crisis, it may be justified to temporarily restrict certain fundamental rights, such as freedom of assembly to protect life, during pandemics. however, such restrictions must always be necessary and proportionate. and too often, crises are and have been used as a pretext to hinder the work of civil society organizations and activists, for example, to justify disproportionate intervention in demonstrations or to justify temporary and temporary permanent state of emergency. we can and must not accept all this. the area that concerns me most about the deterioration of rights and protection is the area of media freedom. journalists have been particularly affected in recent years by disabilities in their work, by intimidation, by listening to spyware, we have our own investigation committee, and even the use of physical violence. the increasing media concentration in some countries with a consequent lower pluralism is also a concern. in this context, i welcome the agreement on the anti-slapp directive and the freedom of the media act, which, even if parliament had wished for more, are important building blocks for the protection of free media. but it is a sign of poverty that in several cases of murder of journalists to date, only a few cases have been investigated. unfortunately, discrimination, even incitement and hate crimes, are also widespread, as we have just discussed. poverty is also a form of discrimination, especially for affected children. in particular, adequate housing is a prerequisite for participation in society as well as the opportunity for education. only in this way can children have a chance to build a successful life for themselves. finally, there is one aspect that is particularly important to me: women's rights. they are not sufficiently protected from violence in many countries, the istanbul convention says. their rights to sexual and reproductive self-determination are being challenged. a democratic society is always recognizable by the way it treats its women. and there is great cause for concern in some countries. as i said at the outset, the common foundation of our union seems to be falling apart. fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law are being deliberately eroded more and more often, authoritarian structures are being built. the report is therefore a reminder to all of us that protection of fundamental rights must never be taken for granted. the guarantee of fundamental rights for all is non-negotiable. it is the foundation of our free and democratic societies. they do not fall into our lap, but must be fought and then defended again and again. we must therefore firmly oppose autocratic developments. this includes attempts to use vetoes in important decisions to try to blackmail other member states. we're finally going to have to put a bar on this. the report therefore also calls on the member states to submit hungary to a procedure under article 7 (2) of the treaties which may lead to a vote draw. the text was also adopted in the resolution on hungary debated this morning. you will find much, much more in this report in five chapters. i don't want to go into that any further. i would like to thank all the parties involved, all the shadow rapporteurs, all the staff for the very constructive cooperation in this report. and i hope he will have a wide majority in the vote tomorrow.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. if you want to get a picture of the current situation in the european union regarding fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law, then i think you can imagine yourself well sitting in this chair six months from now, viktor orbán, president of the council of the european union, leading the affairs of the council. i think that says everything about the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in our union. and some people say now, well, but after the european elections, that's not so important, because there's not so much legislative activity going on directly, so you can let him do it. i think we all know in this house that this is not true, that this is a particularly bad idea. just at this time when we are setting the work programme for the european commission for the next five years, when the top posts in the eu institutions will be awarded, and in a half year when elections are held in the us and at the moment everything looks like donald trump could come back to office, we have at the head of the european union the biggest fan of donald trump, of vladimir putin, of the autocrats of the world speaking for the eu. and i must say that the belgian presidency was here this morning, always saying that the rule of law is the absolute top priority. the commission is also preparing this presidency of the council. i would like to hear how, for example, the hearings on article 7 are supposed to be conducted if hungary itself is conducting its own hearings to itself. i'd like to hear from you.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, thank you very much for the appreciation of many of you, and thanks again to the rapporteurs who did such a great job. there was also some criticism, and i will not shy away from addressing it. mr hidvéghi wanted us to include criticism of a government that came into power on 28 december in a report on 22 and 23. ok. you could have put it in the amendments. you didn’t. alright, there were some speakers from the right side of the chamber who wanted this and that included in the report, saying whatever is not in. well, you could have tried to get it in. the shadow rapporteur from the id was not present one single time and also from the ecr, i think once. so i mean, you can’t stand here and say this and that and that is missing if you don’t work on it. and if they had been there, they might have heard me saying, which caused some criticism from the left side of the chamber, that i only included in this report concrete mentioning of countries if we have an objective basis for it. because i did not want this report to become a party-political thing. so we only have in this report mentioning of countries if we have a judgment of the european court of justice, something of the european court of human rights or the venice commission or something comparable to that. so we really made an effort in this to make it as objective as it can be. but if you don’t contribute, then please don’t stand here and say what is missing.
- madam president, please. i believe that dealing with the weakest shows how strong a rule of law is. and so that you don't get me wrong in my criticism of the greek government, i don't expect the greek government to make green policies. the greeks have voted, they have voted for a conservative party. but i expect all governments in europe, including conservative ones, to uphold the rule of law, the rule of law and human rights. if you see how in the justice system, refugees are sentenced in trials that take no more than half an hour, and they are sentenced to decades in prison without having a translator, if you see how over 600 people died in the pylos shipwreck and the authorities cover it up and the government doesn't seem to have much interest in the investigation, if you see that journalists you meet there in greece are afraid to report on migration, then this is not a conservative policy, but it is a policy that we should condemn. i think it's one thing to want to build walls on the border. i think it's wrong, but people can find the right one. but the other is when we try to build a wall of lies about our own politics. this should have no place in europe. i therefore ask the government and the commission to take a different path and to point greece to the right frontiers.
question on the procedure of the blue card. you said there was political persecution, now by the new government in poland. but you ruled poland for years. they have also made some changes to the judicial system there. and i ask you, even if politicians are legally convicted, what reason do you have to believe that the courts that you have reformed to fit your ideas will then politically carry out those convictions? why shouldn't the courts you created have made this decision independently?
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the february i session.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion of the council and commission statements on the situation in serbia after the elections (2024/2521(rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, colleagues, i have seen many elections from kazakhstan to kosovo, ukraine to iraq. however, since i became an election observer 20 years ago, i have never witnessed something like this: mass migration of sns voters to the city of belgrade, busing hundreds of voters from republika srpska, pressuring voters, carousel voting, no access to international media for the opposition before the election day... the plan to publish election results tomorrow, but backdated to 3 january, will ensure that the opposition loses any right to appeal to the high court. let us be crystal clear, these elections are rigged. they are stolen. the united opposition could have won in belgrade if thousands were not brought in, reregistered or pressured to vote for sns. dear citizens of serbia, the european parliament stands with you. first, we demand an impartial international investigation together with the osce, as was the case in serbia after the 1996 elections. the goal of every election observation mission is to respect the voters rule. if massive fraud takes place, the international community needs to protect voters rights. second, with the inter-party dialogue, the ep has a long-term instrument for mediation between political party parties in serbia. why not use it now for this occasion? the ep is being recognised as a credible actor on both sides, serbian authorities and the united opposition. let us make use of that. it is in our joint interest to see a democratic, european serbia, which will lead the whole region to the eu.
the rapporteur. - what? i would like to start with the fact that the itre report is very strongly supported. we have a strong mandate, because all political groups voted for it, and we are asking the commission and the member states to support the development of geothermal energy. we regret to note that geothermal energy still plays a marginal role in the renewable energy debate. i have to say, it was a surprise to me personally, as we talk so much about green transformation, and an important topic like geothermal energy has been missed. and the benefits of this energy are enormous: little impact on the environment, stable and predictable energy costs, low operating costs, long life and reliability. so why is her potential being overlooked? in statistics, geothermal energy does not appear as a separate category, but as other renewable energy sources. so this is basically an invisible sector in the energy market, which is negatively affecting competitiveness, access to finance, political support. our report highlights the existing barriers to the development of geothermal energy and recommends the solutions that must be taken by the member states, the commission and the sector. i will list here some of them: the availability of geological data, the fragmentation of the statistical data, the financial risks associated with geothermal projects and the high cost problem associated with the installation of geothermal heat pumps, regulatory issues (deep geothermal projects are often subject to inadequate mining regulations), administrative issues (the licensing processes for geothermal projects are time-consuming), the shortage of skilled workers and the problem of full and quality teaching at universities. finally, the development of advanced geothermal technologies such as egs, underground storage of electricity and heat. all this must be taken into account in a coherent and full european policy. we therefore call on the european commission to present a union geothermal strategy with specific guidelines for member states and local authorities. we call on the european commission to establish a geothermal alliance uniting the member states, the geothermal sector, the scientific community and civil society around the task of developing geothermal energy, exchanging best practices and implementing the future strategy effectively. finally, i would like to highlight the particular role of geothermal energy development for energy transformation areas. geothermal energy is an integral part of the path to a just energy transformation. it can not only provide energy sources but also compensate for the loss of jobs in the mining sector and attract new business projects in industry, food and agriculture. unfortunately, projects using existing infrastructure (e.g. burial, idle oil and gas windows) are very, very small in relation to the potential to change the purpose of that infrastructure. i call on the commission to prioritise this area of action and to support the development of relevant techniques and the implementation of these projects through existing programmes.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me thank professor krasnodębski and welcome the own-initiative report presented today, which underlines the need to accelerate the deployment of geothermal energy across the european union. we need various sources of renewable energy to grow fast if we want to achieve the eu's ambitious new renewable energy target of at least 42.5 % by 2030, adopted last year under the revised renewable energy directive. it means more than doubling the pace of deployment of renewables compared to the past decade. it requires exploiting the full potential of all technologies in all sectors. it also implies making our energy system fit for enabling this fast transformation and ensuring that energy remains affordable. geothermal energy so far has had a limited role in the european union energy mix, but it has potential to grow. over the past year, we have put in place many tools to support it. the adoption for the first time of binding targets for renewable heating and cooling under the revised directive will be a key driver for the uptake of technologies such as geothermal heat pumps and for further driving down their cost. we have also been working to address the skills bottleneck, from the launch of a large-scale partnership on renewables skills to the introduction of new measures on training, certification and awareness in the renewable energy directive. a second important angle is the role of district heating and cooling systems using geothermal energy. they can provide affordable energy to whole cities, blend in new energy sources and provide flexibility services, for example in combination with heat storage. the revised energy efficiency directive and renewable energy directive define a pathway to the decarbonisation of existing district heating systems and the development of new renewables-based ones. this is also about good energy planning. the new energy efficiency directive introduces new local planning requirements for the 1 000 largest municipalities in the european union, a strong incentive for geothermal projects where much of the complexity is at the planning and exploration phase. in parallel, the new renewable energy directive will ensure that district heating systems are taken into account when planning electricity infrastructure. a third aspect is related to competitiveness: with the introduction in the renewable energy directive of renewable energy benchmarks for the industry sector, we would increase interest for applications such as the ones highlighted in the report. as for the eu geothermal industry itself, the net zero industry act proposal should help support its future growth and competitiveness, together with the inclusion of lithium in the critical raw materials act. the challenge is now about implementation, how to make sure that these tools are used efficiently. as highlighted in your report, the exchange of best practices will be essential here, in particular on applicable regulations and permitting, and on improved data, but also on financing and de-risking, as some member states have been putting in place promising new schemes. so i will listen to your exchange during the discussion, and i thank you for your attention.
for the renew group. the commission is not going to vote. it is a great pleasure to stand here today and to consider a report on geothermal energy. it was not a given that we could get it done, but we did, and we should be happy about it, because there are so many positive elements and consequences and prospects in this form of energy. and it has been completely overlooked, and it is therefore good that we have it on the agenda. with geothermal energy, we can increase our independence from russian gas. it's sustainable, it's constant, it's affordable, it's low impact on the environment, it's minimal land use, it's easy to integrate into the landscape, so "what's not to like?" as the english would say. let's get this thing started. we need investments. modernisation of district heating systems, access to data and faster authorization of this promising form of energy are needed. this report today is a huge step forward in the proliferation of geothermal energy, so let us call on the commission to put a real turbo on this in the next term of office, whoever the commissioner is. this is the right way to go in the face of climate change and in the face of putin's gas independence.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has been trying to find a way to ensure that the european parliament is able to take action in the field of energy and energy policy. the result was written in advance: total dependence on foreign powers, energy production lagging behind, unable to meet growing demand and supply stability compromised. and now, after being the primary culprits of an energy crisis, you're rushing to explore geothermal technologies. if that is good news, this sudden change in direction is still revealing. the truth behind this fuzzy policy is that there is no direction or method. your only goal seems to be to make communication calls. and even if by accident you make a sensible decision, as today with this proposal on geothermal energy, it is once again the citizens who will ultimately have to pay the bill for your many catastrophic decisions.
on behalf of the band the left. madam president, geothermal energy provides us with clean energy, which is always available, at a cost that defies all competition. it can create jobs, create jobs, and contribute fully to our energy sovereignty. it also helps to unlock territories which are now dependent on energy needs, especially overseas. it was time for the european union to take action. while we now use 60 percent of our electricity for heating purposes, we have an endless source of heat under our feet. in this respect, i regret the lack of development in the geothermal sector over the past several decades, the lack of interest from private companies, and i believe that these investments were not profitable enough. this shows once again that the energy transition must be planned and that we cannot rely on private interests driven by the profit trap. so yes, today i fully support the objectives set out in this report to develop the use of geothermal energy in europe for heat, electricity generation and also for minerals. this is of course important, given the earthquake and environmental risks. this report opens the door to public financing, which is necessary because we need to go even further on public management of this sector. i am happy that this report also takes into account the conversion of workers from the fossil fuel industry to the geothermal sector. it is time for the european union to fully develop geothermal energy.
honored president and honored house. the european economy is at a low level of competitiveness due to its failed sanctions and energy policies in brussels. economic growth requires a new strategy and a source of energy available in as many places as possible at a low cost. geothermal energy is like that. geothermal energy is a predictable, affordable and green energy source. outsourced technology independent of price movements in the energy market. the report under discussion correctly identifies its potential and the tasks to be addressed. at the same time, good practices in member states should be taken into account in the development of technology. hungary, for example, has the largest geothermal heating system in the union, which was delivered last year and 12 cities are already using geothermal energy. the commission has failed to find a european financial support framework for geothermal energy. that needs to change, too. by june at the latest, we need green energy instead of green ideology.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of geothermal energy. it allows for continuous and reliable production. it can be used in electricity generation, directly for district heating, or in industrial processes. it is a valuable resource, particularly for some remote and outermost regions. in the autonomous region of the azores, portugal, it is estimated that around 60% of electricity needs are covered by existing geothermal plants in the current decade. but it is also a resource that can benefit europe as a whole. the potential to be exploited is immense. even italy, for example, the largest producer in the european union, still uses only a small fraction of its capacity. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report and endorse the call for the european commission to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the potential of geothermal energy in the european union.
the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of geothermal energy. we are therefore calling for a change in the way we are doing business. however, a map of european geothermal resources and the current environmental and economic conditions for exploitation is lacking. it is therefore urgent that the commission collect and share standardised data in order to define the conditions for access to finance. in my tuscany, the region of the world's first geothermal power plant, there are already important results: i think of electricity generation, heating and cooling with heat pumps, basil greenhouses and many others. we have a 100 percent renewable outpost of municipalities between pisa and grosseto and they're all geothermal. but it's not enough to share data and good practice. dear colleagues, we must think big! i therefore ask the commission to launch a european geothermal strategy at the beginning of the next legislative term. a net-zero emissions europe by 2050 and our strategic autonomy also go through here.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, more than 15% of electricity consumption by 2040: this is the potential of geothermal energy for our continent. the use of the earth's heat is therefore a key step towards achieving climate neutrality through a supply source which, unlike photovoltaics and wind, does not require raw materials from third countries and does not suffer from intermittent problems. yet, despite the great potential, few areas make geothermal excellence. among these is certainly my region, tuscany, which since 1905 has been using the earth's heat efficiently with peak electricity production, more than 30% of its regional needs. more work is needed to seize the opportunities geothermal energy offers. a european strategy is needed that focuses on developing technological skills, european investment in research and development, simplifying rules and authorizations and, finally, common methods of collecting and sharing underground data. we are not going to be able to do this without the help of the european parliament.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. climate neutral, inexhaustible, basic load-bearing these are just three of the many benefits of geothermal energy. and that is why geothermal energy should play a much more important role in europe's energy supply than it has ever played. the present initiative report is the first step in this direction. we as the eu must be quick now, because geothermal energy has already come into practice. however, high investment costs and lengthy approval processes are currently holding back further progress. in berlin we recently adopted a geothermal strategy that helps to remove barriers, accelerate processes, improve investment security and scale technologies. a european strategy to support these points and create a european geothermal alliance would be the right signal. private projects such as the behrens-before in berlin-uberschöneweide show that there is interest and demand. the project is to power a whole new business district with geothermal energy. if we continue to support such lighthouses in the future by the eu, and learn from good examples from other member states, our goal of achieving climate neutrality will become more concrete. let us therefore work together to continue the geothermal path consistently and strategically.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. one survey once found that people with a migration background are more likely to believe in earning money later or taking a career as a youtube star than they are to get into a job through education. what's the reason? this is discrimination. it's the wrong address, it's the name, the migration history, the origin you bring with you. it's also sometimes like a person with a disability when you're told that it's clear that that's your given path, that's where you go, that's your future. and this may not be the company or the job or the field you dreamed of. why am i telling you this? because if there are fears, worries, restraints and negative experiences in early childhood and early childhood education, then older people, people in the workforce, are more likely to not engage or are less willing to continue their education. then they're afraid or afraid of further education. and it has to be clear, even if you're trained, that it's worth it. this must also be clear to companies and employers.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. we have the fable in germany of the shepherd boy who, because he must shepherd sheep, cries out: "the wolf is coming!" no wolf, people won't listen to him. then the wolf comes and no one helps him. it's kind of like the debate about the shortage of skilled workers. we've known that for a long time. we've had stages over and over again, but investing sustainably in education, in continuing education, is a core element that we need to emphasize so that you can really predictively actually have the qualifications. the commissioner has spoken about the right to further education. i think that's very important, even considering the transformations we're having. but there's actually a super-good recipe: we see that companies that have good working conditions and pay good wages, also usually find the professionals they need. but that's why we can't just import professionals. we've done this for a long time with eastern europe in many western european countries.
in writing. i am convinced that it is necessary to set as a goal to get as many people as possible to work, and therefore to support the employment of young people, young children, low-skilled people and those living in disadvantaged regions. and let's not forget those who still have high untapped entrepreneurial potential: i'm talking about people with disabilities. it is also worth investing in their training and job creation. in hungary, almost one in two people with a change in ability to work is already earning their wages and not their allowances. the national employment rate has, by the way, been higher than the eu average since 2014 and the gap is growing. the unemployment rate is only 4.2 percent. so in hungary, anyone who wants to work can now.
the following table sets out the discussions on cases of violations of human rights and the principles of democracy and the rule of law in accordance with rule 144 of the rules of procedure. the first discussion on the ongoing persecution of falun gong practitioners in china, in particular the case of ding yuan (2024/2504 ((rsp)).
author. – madam president, dear colleagues. as china is a one—party dictatorship, it is not a surprise that in order to stay in power, such structures need to repress multifold groups in their respective societies. when it comes to china, we have on many occasions discussed the fate of the uyghurs, of tibet and of the citizens of hong kong. today we once again focus on the fate of those who practice falun gong. it’s a practice that doesn’t harm anyone, that is not a danger to the state, but apparently the party considers it – or has been considering it since 1999 – a threat to their ideology. the case we are focusing on is mr ding yuande, who has been arrested and was in december sentenced to more than three years’ imprisonment. the only charge is that he practises falun gong. we are of the opinion that all those, not only falun gong practitioners, but the other groupings that i have named who are persecuted and repressed, need to be released unconditionally and allowed to practice their faith or to practice their culture, as it is also enshrined in the chinese constitution. we demand that the member states publicly condemn these practices and that we should apply the eu global human rights sanctions regime and also national human rights sanctions regimes against all the perpetrators, as well as entities that have contributed to the persecution of falun gong practitioners in china. we stress that eu measures should include visa refusal, freezing of assets, expulsion from eu territories and criminal prosecution, including on the basis of extraterritorial jurisdiction or the initiation of international criminal charges. that is what we owe to the citizens who are innocent and who need to be released.
i'm a writer. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. it is hardly a month since we have to speak here in this parliament about the serious violations of human rights by the chinese autocracy. and it is really amazing that many member states are really refusing to accept and even to put into practice what we are repeatedly putting on the table in the european parliament. i would like to ask the commissioner to take a moment to explain why he is not here. whether it's the christians in hong kong, whether it's the buddhists in tibet, whether it's the muslims as uighurs or now the falun gong, just imagine, they're suddenly imprisoned just because they belong to a religious community. and all because china is getting into trouble. china has significant problems inside. the promise of prosperity of the chinese is beginning to crumble. i am deeply concerned that once the interior is cleared, china, like any other autocracy, will go out and threaten third countries. we must therefore, mr commissioner, really call on all member states to wake up and act.
the author. madam president, more than 14 million sudanese and sudanese women are living in emergency food insecurity following the conflict that has ravaged the country for years. according to recent estimates, more than six million people - half the population - are at risk of starvation. the country has fallen into a staggering economic depression and communities are collapsing. the food security situation in sudan was already disastrous before the conflict. it just got worse. in sudan, the conflict has exacerbated an already deplorable hunger landscape fueled by intercommunal violence, economic crisis, rising basic food prices and climate change. despite the return of peace, malnutrition remains a major problem for the population. it is especially affecting women and children. we must therefore strengthen humanitarian aid by ensuring that it reaches the most vulnerable. the european union has the tools to exert diplomatic influence and mobilize resources that are a beacon of hope for those who are crying out for famine in sudan.
author. – madam president, colleagues, tajikistan, like the rest of central asia, is a land of challenges and opportunity, both of which have increased dramatically since russia’s invasion of ukraine. tajikistan plays an important role in connecting europe to china and contributing to peace in afghanistan and beyond. strengthened ties with this country must therefore be in the eu’s interest. however, pursuing this interest cannot be at the expense of deteriorating human rights. we cannot ignore the repressive actions of the rahmon regime, an autocrat who has rewritten the constitution in order to rule until his death. in rahmon’s tajikistan, journalists are threatened, arrested and imprisoned for speaking the truth. human rights defenders are persecuted and jailed for standing up to injustice. ethnic minorities, especially pamiris in gorno badakhshan, are oppressed because they dare to demand the basic rights. the eu is not china or russia, to do business without conscience. we must engage on the basis of democratic conditionality because human rights are not for sale.
mr president, commissioner, as i feared, there has been a lot of exaggeration, lies and falsehoods here. i am also convinced that this debate would not take place if there were no elections in galicia in the near future. galicia is the victim of a double injustice by the spanish government. he was aware of the accident on december 8 and only reported it to the xunta almost a month later, on january 3. secondly, it fails to fulfil its functions and does not activate the means or plans involved. i can assure you, mr. commissioner sinkevičius, that the galicia xunta will not rest or rest until the coasts and beaches are completely clean. it is also making a huge deployment of media, by sea and air, beyond its competence, in view of the total inaction of the spanish government. in recent weeks we have also witnessed a misinformation machine, a real bullfighting by the spanish government and also by the socialist party and the galician nationalist bloc, even passing through galleys of photos of sri lanka and texas. i call for common sense, for responsibility. please, stop the election maneuvers and the falsehoods. i am also afraid that they may damage the image of galicia and our prestigious maritime industry. from the people's party, of course, we cannot allow it.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. we are now witnessing an environmental disaster on our western coast of the european union. this plastic granite that falls overboard from large cargo ships, pollutes the ocean and washes up on the beach. both fish and birds eat the tiny plastic balls because they resemble sea animals and plankton. toxic chemicals are penetrating the animal's bloodstream from the plastic. it doesn't break down, and when the small fish are eaten by the larger ones, the plastic balls come along, and so do the chemicals. the animals are suffering. our nature is suffering. we're gonna have to do everything we can to get this cleaned up. the plastic needs to come up from the ocean and off the beach. that is the task here and now, but in the long run we must also ensure that these environmental disasters do not happen. it requires us to use new political solutions. too often containers fall off ships. as late as december, 46 containers fell off a ship off the danish coast. we must go to the forefront of europe and demand that the shipping industry does something about this. we must minimize the risk of environmental disasters in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank all civil society, especially galician, for their efforts to collect and dispose of waste on the galician beaches. the galician civil society is proving to be up to the occasion, well above even this debate. ladies and gentlemen, let's leave the galician fishing industry alone. it's a professional sector that does its job well. let's not mix some things up with others. we hope, commissioner, and you have said it right, that this new environmental catastrophe will serve to take effective european prevention measures to prevent further leaks and the environmental damage caused by these microplastics. we learn the lesson from this terrible situation. but first, we must act. and that's where the galician government is being measured, which is demonstrating great negligence. environmental impact must be avoided. it is essential to take action and clean up and then seek responsibility. and ladies and gentlemen, let me say that it is unheard of that the spanish, european and far-right pp, who has long since left, are concerned that we bring this debate here because there are elections. if they bring all the garbage they generate in spain to debate here and criticize pedro sánchez... you're a tough face. lords of climate change deniers, the best example: the spanish pp. they don't have credit.
mr president, this is a very important issue for all of us in europe, and it truly is just the tip of the iceberg, so let’s just put the election campaigning aside. and my question would be, also to the commissioner, how did the spanish government inform you? and how were france, for example, as a neighbouring country, informed by the spanish government? that is a crucial european question. i recognise that not many colleagues here talked about, for example, the legislative package on maritime security. and i also remember that somebody who spoke one month ago here in parliament, mr sánchez, did not talk about this issue at all. frankly speaking, he did not talk about european issues at all. so my question would be, how did the spanish government inform the european government?
mr president, i think this is a good report and i would like to congratulate mr mato, mrs avram and the other alternate speakers on their reflection on the need for reform of the common fisheries policy in some respects. for example, i think one of the aspects is that it has developed significantly and i agree with it - environmental policy and all environmental aspects, but not the social and economic aspects, and we cannot leave them behind. the three pillars are fundamental: a modernisation of the fleet, an approach to the energy transition, and the cfp must also be prepared for this. but i also believe that a better definition of artisanal fishing is needed. we are not doing well in our support for artisanal fishing, among other things, because a more concrete and effective definition is needed than we have now. we have also not benefited from strengthening aquaculture. it is true that it is the responsibility of the member states, but we can do more. i believe this reform is necessary.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, it was a truly rich debate, and, of course, thank you for the variety of views that you have expressed. let me react to some which i found most important, which were repeated by a few members of parliament. first of all, on the reform of common fisheries policy, the existing legislative framework provides the stability the fisheries sector needs. several challenges have been identified to the successful implementation of the common fisheries policy, and initiatives announced in the fisheries and oceans package address these challenges. so the focus should be now, of course, on implementation and having, ensuring, stability to our fishers. as regards the msy, where msy has been implemented, stocks have increased. catches and incomes are improving and impacts on the marine environment have decreased. dear colleagues, these are real, tangible achievements which we have set out in our annual communications on the common fisheries policy. returning back to landing obligation, which i already addressed in my introductory remarks, we need improved control and enforcement at all levels, as now also reflected in the recently revised eu fisheries control system, as well as the further use of more selective fishing techniques. the commission will evaluate the landing obligation. prior to that, throughout 2024, a study will be carried out to feed into the evaluation, so the commission agrees that the objective to be reached should be to fish more selectively. now social pillar, which has been mentioned a lot, and we had constant exchanges, which is absolutely critical for our fishers. the social pillar is crucial. it’s crucial for the fisheries and aquaculture sectors within the context of the common fisheries policy, but also for policymaking and implementation regarding the other blue sectors. so this overarching social objective is key to ensure generational renewal in fisheries. it is also essential for strong and resilient coastal communities. so we of course want to ensure that no one is left behind. and social pillar is a strong key part of the cfp. very shortly, the commission launched a new eu-wide participatory foresight project to forecast the role of fishers in the society called ‘fishers of the future’. fishers are facing a multitude of new challenges – climate change, more and more competition for marine space, rising costs and the need to transition to greener energies, amongst others. and this project wants to look ahead and understand how fishers, including the small-scale operators, envisage their future. on small-scale fisheries, which was also mentioned, and article 17 of the cfp, the commission is working with member states and the scientific and technical economic committee for fisheries to assess the approach in member states for allocating their fishing opportunities to ensure the transparency of criteria applied and their conformity with the cfp provisions, and encourages, of course, the use of criteria that can foster sustainable fishing practices and support small-scale and coastal fisheries. the last thing: level playing field. i know this is important, and i can reassure you that this is as equally important to the commission. commission is fully committed to further promote a level playing field for eu fishers, where they operate with the third countries’ operators. so the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing will also continue to be a key priority for us. dear members of the parliament, dear colleagues, trust and engagement between all stakeholders from producers to policymakers is key to achieving our sustainability objectives and to strengthening our open strategic autonomy in the areas of fisheries. this is why we have called on member states, fisheries stakeholders and the scientific community to join us in a fisheries and oceans pact to reconfirm our joint commitment to fully implement the current policy and to contribute to necessary reflections and assessment of certain elements of the common fisheries policy. and this will then contribute to a discussion between fisheries managers and stakeholders on future-proofing the policy in terms of both social and environmental resilience. so today’s debate has been an important moment in this regard. thank you for that.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank the commissioner for his support. dear commissioner, stability in what doesn't work, no. we must preserve the valuable, but we must reform the necessary. and the common fisheries policy needs a paradigm shift, moving, as i have said many times, from rigid and unrealistic goals to pragmatic and attainable goals, adapted to the new reality set after brexit, the covid-19 pandemic and the war, the chairman of the fisheries commission has said very well, to the real world. the reform of the cfp should aim at rebalancing its objectives, strengthening the socioeconomic and food security dimensions of the cfp and achieving fair competition conditions on an international scale, as the commissioner also stated. fisheries and aquaculture must have their rightful place in european union policies and in the commission. the previous commission identified the need to produce more food from the ocean as a strategic objective and this is more relevant today than ever, but it has been left on paper. fisheries and aquaculture must also be on the european union's external policy agenda and we must integrate fisheries policy into a broader political context, within the policies of the european union and relations with third countries. china, norway, russia and the united kingdom have understood the strategic importance of fisheries from a geopolitical point of view, but the european union is still shy and still hesitant. as you know, my heart is in the canary islands, and i want to reiterate a message to the outermost regions that need all our support. they also need eu money and state aid to renew the forgotten local craft fleets. this is not a luxury, it is a question of the survival of coastal communities in these territories and it is a constant request from this parliament which neither the commission nor the council have considered sufficient. we are confident that, commissioner, you will listen carefully and take seriously my views, which are also those of the whole sector, at least the views and requests of this parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 18 january 2024.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion on the report by mr niclas autumn on behalf of the fisheries committee on the eu action plan: protecting and restoring marine ecosystems for sustainable and resilient fisheries (2023/2124(ini)) (a9-0437/2023).
the report is not yet available. the commission has already taken a number of steps. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the commission's proposals. i would therefore like to recall what happened almost a year ago when you presented an ambitious plan, an action plan which has attracted criticism not only from us here in parliament but also from the majority of member states, including the council, especially from the fisheries sector, from many fisheries companies, from many countries which have protested massively. and some of the criticism at the time may have been overblown, as it is sometimes in politics. i must, however, insist on some of the key points of criticism. i also remember that at that time, on my own site, where the fishing industry was really affected, representatives of the greens and representatives of the social democrats said that, we do not want to. we don't want a general ban. they have not made this point to you, commissioner, but to ursula von der leyen, as is the case in politics. i would like to say that the commissioner has not yet made a decision on the matter. a critical point, and this must be improved, is political communication and communication within the commission. there were various statements, including on the legislative value of this action plan. and what it really was about was the general prohibition approach, even with an ambitious time approach. i do not think that in the future we can say in the fisheries sector that there will never be any restrictions. we'll never be able to say everything is wonderful and you can continue to fish as before. that's not going to be the point. but we must get away from these general prohibitions. it is interesting that in the meantime a number of scientific studies have been published, especially on the issues covered by the action plan, which tell very differently about the actual impact of fishing, for example in the area of shrimp fishing. these are the same scientists you take very seriously when it comes to ices advice. so it's not that you can choose your scientists, but you really have to listen to them. i have deliberately refrained from proposing an alternative action plan with certain species, with certain fishing vessels, in the proposal in the report , but we want to adopt guidelines. we want to tell you what's wrong. in particular, we want to say that we want regional solutions in the future, that we want to talk to those affected, that we do not want to act against them. this approach has gained a clear majority in the fisheries committee. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. we are not proposing an alternative plan, but we are focusing on the core points. some of the requests go so far as to regulate relations with third countries. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not compromised. i don't think that's good. we have therefore once again put forward guidelines for the new commission so that we can give a clear signal, especially at this politically difficult time, to the fisheries sector to tell you that we are working with you, not against you. it won't always be easy, but we'll listen to you. we want regional solutions, not general prohibitions. i therefore hope that the fisheries workers, including those from the groups that have tabled amendments, will be encouraged to keep this spirit alive. if we go ahead with this report as it is, we will have a good position as a parliament, together, with a wide majority, hopefully, in the new commission and especially in the upcoming european election campaign, to tell the fishermen that we stand with you.
mr president, commissioner, i have to say that on this european union action plan your whole presentation has been very unfortunate and the sector has not understood the plan. i'm not saying it's a bad plan, in general terms, although it has aspects that i don't like. i think that when an action plan is presented, since we are talking about a political document, not a regulatory one, which seeks to make some fundamental changes beyond the common fisheries policy, it must be explained very well and the sector must understand it, because otherwise it will be very difficult to implement. an effort must therefore be made to explain these issues. this has become a pimpampum against trawling, which is bad. i am not against all trawling, because not all are the same, and those trawling systems are also being corrected. that's why you can't match and you can't attack with that belligerence. these are the regrettable aspects of this action plan, which i believe will be left to nothing by the unfortunate presentation and transfer to the media and society.
member of the commission. – mr president, members of the parliament, thank you very much for this enriching debate, which has helped us to clarify and share our views regarding the action plan, but also reaffirm once more that we all want to remedy the negative environmental impacts, because the future of our fisheries will depend on our ability to react and adapt. and let me now come to some points that you have raised. first of all, on impact assessment, the action plan is not a legal proposal. in addition, it is based on existing legislation, which impact assessments have been done and they were being adopted. finally, the design and implementation of the measures is left to member states, so they are best placed to judge what is needed and what the impact will be, and on that basis, ensure a balanced approach. it also has been explained on multiple occasions that the action plan does not intend to impose any legal measure. the action plan simply calls for a renewed political commitment to make the measures work involving the commission, parliament, the council and member states. it presents the cfp regionalisation process as the right framework for the measures proposed to be implemented. in addition, the technical measures regulation also places the regionalisation in a privileged position. on bottom-trawling, again, we had a multiple exchanges on that, we’ve heard it quite a few times today. dear members of the parliament, we need a transition to better protection of the seabed, including through the less damaging gears, but also to gears to ensure less fuel consumption. because when the russia attacked ukraine, our fishers were left without income. why? because of their dependence on fossil fuels. and the fishing techniques that they are using today are unfortunately heavily dependent on fossil fuels, and we cannot keep them in this position where the whole livelihood, the income of their families, would be busted due to events happening in the world. we need to protect them and this is essential. the last thing on dialogue, you know, i myself, throughout this mandate, have visited all sea basins. i’ve talked with different communities in different parts of europe, talked with the fishers from the mediterranean to baltic, bay of biscay even, a few times. we’ve been constantly involving fishers in this dialogue. i have accepted them on multiple occasions in brussels. we had challenging times, starting the mandate with the brexit issue and going through the covid-19 crisis, and also, as i’ve said, russia’s war against ukraine. on all these occasions, i always had the privilege to meet the fishers and answer the questions about their future, and i will do so, same as you, members of parliament. so, you know, to say that there was a lack of dialogue is absolutely not true. we have been always involved and they were part of the dialogue as regards the action plan. the last thing, on the bay of biscay, as i see mr bellamy is still in the room, the very important thing to take from the bay of biscay, i think we don’t need to wait for national courts’ decisions to implement eu legislation, because when the national court decisions are announced, unfortunately it’s too late. i think we can prevent such things from happening and then ensure the livelihood of the fishers in different sea basins across europe. dear colleagues, in conclusion, the principle of regionalisation is the right framework to implement measures proposed in the action plan, so therefore it should be fully used to implement necessary measures to protect habitats and species. if we want the eu to continue being a leading actor on global marine conservation, we need to lead the transition to sustainability. so the benefits that ocean provides will be enjoyed also by the future generations, including future fishers. i count on the commitment of this house to work jointly with the commission in the pursuit of the biodiversity goal, so we can offer our citizens the highest standards of marine conservation and supply of high-quality seafood, while ensuring the livelihoods of european fishing communities also in the future.
the report is not yet available. the commission has already taken a number of steps. i would also like to thank almost all the groups who have made it very clear that the question is not whether the objectives of this action plan are or not, but that we need to talk about how. i would like to thank you very much for this, because it shows that this parliament, at least as far as the fisheries speakers are concerned today, is very united here. what has upset me, i would like to say frankly, is a little moral arrogance, for example from mrs roose, who has now also left the debate, who simply says: maybe you can tell her and point out that this very attitude, this moral arrogance, is sometimes responsible for why fishermen actually follow populists. i would also like to thank you very much, commissioner. they have been subject to harsh criticism, and my report is critical and the first draft was even more critical. i have also noted that you have made very different arguments today and that we can also be able to find solutions as a commission and as a parliament, because, again, it is not about the objectives of the action plan but about implementation. and i think this is a good first step, that we can do this together in the future, and i want to thank you very much. i think once again that if we pass this report as it is, with the comments of our colleagues, we will have a good position, we will be able to really confront our fishermen and say, we are fighting for you, it is not easy, we have big challenges, but we are on your side. that should be our signal today. thank you very much for the debate.
in the name of the id faction. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. i don't know about you, but i don't really want to eat horse meat. whether from argentina or uruguay. i want to eat meat from animals coming from german farms. and when i'm here in strasbourg, i want to eat french farm meat. instead of discussing whether or not to ban the import of horse meat from uruguay and argentina, we should focus on supporting our local farmers to ensure that we can provide ourselves with local vegetables and fruits, domestic cow and goat milk products and domestic meat. we should look for ways to make agriculture more attractive at home and imports less attractive abroad. i would like to prohibit the massive importation of live animals from all over the world if these animals are seriously injured during long animal transport. it's just cruel. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states. we've been farming for centuries, and suddenly the farming is bad. and we're starting to import massive amounts of meat. this is just crazy, and we need to stop this madness that under the guise of climate change is banning meat consumption and destroying our agriculture. it's like telling the italians that they can no longer make their own parmesan, but they have to import gouda, or telling the french that they can no longer produce their own wines, but they have to import german wines. i would like to ask you, mr president, to take this opportunity to express your views. of course, any meat from anywhere in the world should be able to import as long as it complies with health regulations and all these rules are followed. but the commission should not be concerned about these matters. mr milei is in charge of argentina. and prohibitions are certainly not effective. dear colleagues, i was born and raised on a farm like many of you. we mustn't leave our farmers in the rain. and it is in these days of open protest by farmers against the aggression of their governments that farmers need our solidarity. i'm with my peasants. i am for germany, but i am also for the farmers in uruguay and argentina. they just have to do their homework. and then if anyone here wants to eat argentine horse meat, please, let them eat it and enjoy it. but it is not the eu's job to ban it.
- madam president, please. in fact, all the parties responsible here have stressed the importance of putting the ukraine aid package into action. and mr michel stressed the determination, unity and leadership of europe. but this will be a minute's success if we don't make sure that veto options like those that were still being played at the december council don't become routine. there's a good saying that says, "evalue your successes by what you had to give up to achieve them". we must learn from this and finally really make sure that such veto options are no longer possible and that unanimity is abolished and that we finally have the courage to reform soon! i would like to give another message to mr weber: you cannot even take that away from the farmers themselves who are out there. we must not give in to the poison of populism and show the right how it works from their point of view. and that also means taking into account the purchasing power of corporations and supermarkets.
- madam president, please. last thursday was undoubtedly a good day for our european union, for our european security and, of course, for ukraine. europe is firmly on the side of ukraine and we will not let that deter us. it was a bad day, and the big losers of the last few days are viktor orbán, who, despite his hard work, failed to achieve anything he demanded. it was a bad day for vladimir putin because vladimir putin was just waiting for europe to split up on this issue. why did this all work out? it worked because it was done with determination and because of political and economic pressure, i would say the first time in a long time that a word has been said about viktor orbán. we should keep going and not give up. but with the same determination as we took on viktor orban's power play, i would have wished we had shown the flag in other areas of the budget. we didn't do that. we're cutting research and health care instead of taking more money into our hands to invest. this can't be your business, dear heads of state and government. this is a matter which needs to be improved and we as parliament will do everything to achieve that.
madam president, dear commissioner, president michel, colleagues, yesterday night we concluded the ukraine facility and i’m very proud to have been part of the negotiating team. eur 50 billion for ukraine – what a strong signal of support. europe will do what it takes to support ukraine. we will be there until the end. slava ukraini! but colleagues, let’s also be honest. this is not a recovery package, it’s budget support. it’s just enough to cover the deficits. we will need more investment into ukraine from europe. and president michel, the capitals almost didn’t make it. the body of the 27 heads of state and government almost failed to agree, almost managed to block funds for ukraine, almost became a huge security risk for ukraine, but also for us european citizens. and all of this because of one rogue member. if i had to do a post mortem about the european union, i would say it failed because of the european council and its decision-making procedures. so i really ask you, please suspend the hungarian presidency of the council, trigger the article 7 procedure to take away orbán’s veto and also prepare the treaty change vote so we can get away from unanimity.
- madam president, please. this war will never end until ukraine wins the upper hand. this war will never end until ukraine is stabilized and strengthened by us. if we fail, we have all failed collectively and collectively and we invite putin to continue to our own borders. and to putin's friends on the right and on the left, those who are thinking about peace negotiations now, i say, you don't need to read us peace leaflets. negotiations are always better than war, but only if they strengthen the victim of aggression, not further torture, empower, not discourage. and so there are three things that apply to us. first, the supply of military equipment, including taurus, and other equipment, which will effectively help ukrainians, needs to be increased. secondly, we need transparency on the aid measures already in place. the number acrobatics from paris and berlin, that's embarrassing. thirdly, we are being watched by moscow and also by beijing. the whole embarrassing action of orbán must stop. and that's what it's gonna be.
- madam president, please. you may have a pistol, but we have the bazooka this is how the london financial times described the eu's attitude towards hungary at the last eu summit. the eu threatened hungary with further sanctions, the end of all public and private investment and the collapse of the hungarian currency. for example, viktor orbán was blackmailed into giving the green light to the €50 billion financing package for ukraine. this blackmail, ursula von der leyen tweeted, is a good day for europe. it was a really good day that thousands of belgian farmers were blocking access to the european parliament. because the 50 billion could have been spent on the farmers who are suffering from the eu's climate policy, or on the many families who are faced with the choice of either heating or eating healthy because of high inflation. instead, the 50 billion now flow into the pockets of mostly american arms companies, at least until hopefully a new and perhaps an old us president ends the unequal struggle. on this supposedly good day for europe, the eu also authorized tens of billions of cohesion funds for the rapid reception and distribution of millions more illegal migrants and indirectly for the destruction of our social systems. the socialist state, according to the calculations of bernd raffelhüschen and jan van de beek of the universities of freiburg and amsterdam, cannot survive open borders. a good day for europe, that is every day at least for you when you bring europe one step closer to the bottom. i have been following eu policy closely for 20 years, but i cannot remember you ever making a policy for europeans here.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. now we all celebrated the great unity at the summit and so on and so forth. but we must now ask ourselves why this special summit took place. this was solely because the summit in december was blocked by viktor orbán. so we need to draw conclusions and think about what happened. how can we prevent this putin disciple and democratic democrat from blocking our european future in the future? we've seen two summits. one in december: we tried to smear him with 10 billion euros, and the rule of law was being ruined like a winter sale. and then we saw another summit where the heads of state and government remained clear, drew a clear line, even speculated about what could be done with the article 7 procedure. that means that viktor orbán understands only the language of power, and we need to speak it more clearly in the future. when will the council, when will the heads of state and government finally understand who they are dealing with? you have to draw the consequences and learn now that this is the way we need to deal with viktor orbán in the future. otherwise, we will see again and again that the future of europe is blocked by him.
- madam president, please. while the hague has ruled that south africa's prosecution is justified because there are signs that could indicate genocide, the federal republic of germany has increased arms supplies to israel by tenfold. mr michel, you have sat down and said: we as the eu stand for a two-state solution. but what does this commitment mean when a european member state can actually support israel's arms supply? what does it mean if it is actually forbidden in the eu to supply arms to war and crisis regions? yes, peace seems to have become a foreign word here in the eu, not only in view of ukraine but also in view of its cynicism towards the middle east conflict. they are now sending ships to the lakes in the region, to the red sea, because three merchant ships have been attacked. what kind of ceasefire are you doing so that no more people, children, women, mothers and fathers are killed by israel? what are you doing, mr. michel?
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. first, it was said that ukraine would fall in two days. after two years, the land still stands. for too long we have taken peace on this continent for granted. that changed suddenly in february 2022. we were reminded that peace always depends on military strength to defend ourselves and our allies. since the beginning of the invasion, ukraine has liberated kharkiv and cherson, recaptured the black sea and reopened the shipping lanes. russian warships are hiding deep in the sea of azov because they are afraid of ukrainian drones and are nowhere safe. but for this struggle for their freedom and ours, ukraine is paying a high price. while putin sends killers from prisons to the front, the ukrainians send their best men. every life lost is one too many. this year, ukraine will reclaim its airspace so that russian missiles do not terrorize ukrainian children and civilians in their sleep. but all this ukraine cannot do without our help. every time washington hesitates, russia intensifies its attacks. every time berlin shakes, putin fires more missiles. every time viktor orbán blocks aid, more ukrainian children are kidnapped, more women and men are raped. because nothing encourages russian evil as much as our weakness. if ukraine falls, the eu members will be next on the list. putin is not so much concerned with anything as with our lack of solidarity and the weakness of our commitments. the only thing that stands between us and the threat is the courage and the will to defend ourselves. therefore, the defense of ukraine is not worth anything, but our own security interest. we repeat it over and over again, with everything that is necessary and for as long as it is necessary. but it also means giving what is really needed so that as long as it is not needed it will not take another two years.
in the name of the left faction. the commission has already taken a number of steps. the war in ukraine has been going on for two years now, and every time we debate here, we get the feeling that the marble is greeting us every day. because the truth is, the only thing you're calling for is the battlefield and the weapons supplies. but the war has its facts. it's clear that the offensive in ukraine has failed, and yet you're calling for the guns. i tell you, yes, of course, the putin regime has the blood of the children in ukraine on its own hands. but let me be honest: you, mrs von der leyen and mr biden and mr johnson, are not very clean hands either, because there was actually a ceasefire negotiation. in fact, mr selensky was here at the beginning and was in favour of a ceasefire. and nato said, "fight, boys, keep fighting, you fight for our freedom!" and that is your cynicism, my colleagues. why do you let the people of ukraine die for your freedom, for your geopolitical interests and sell it to the people as solidarity with the attacked people? no, the men in ukraine are not free to escape the war at the moment. the women and children who fear for their families have no freedom to escape war. do something for peace! this is solidarity. this is about human rights, this is about freedom. war is never freedom!
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. as we are discussing this in the plenary, farmers are standing outside parliament protesting. i can understand them very well, because political objectives are set all the time, but these objectives are to be achieved only through prohibitions and restrictions. we rarely rely on innovation and technology in our discussions, but with this very bill we are trying to close the technological gap, we are trying to give the farmers hand tools to achieve the goals. and frankly, new breeding technologies: it's nothing else than what breeding has done for hundreds of years in the classical sense. and it's nothing else that happens uncontrollably in parts of the free world. we want to increase yields, but we also want to protect resources, and that means reducing the use of pesticides and fertilizers. at the same time, we are taking into account the concerns of organic farms by labelling the seed. we have the right solutions to the challenges of the future with innovation and not with fear, as you do.
- madam president, please. we have already said that once again a sow is hunted through the village, but we are not having an honest debate about the future of our agriculture. it is precisely decades of conservative agricultural policies in the countryside, in the federal republic and in europe that have not given the farmers of my region the prospects for the future, that have not given fair prices for their hard work. today's programme: the claim that you would be against new genetic engineering per se if you didn't just go along with the deregulation. the commission and a majority of the european parliament believe that most genetically modified plants will soon be able to land on the consumer's plates without risk testing or labelling. the commission has also proposed that the commission should adopt a proposal for a directive on the protection of animals and plants from the effects of the introduction of genetically modified organisms. so people in the supermarket will no longer be able to decide for themselves what kind of products they want to buy. the commission has also proposed a new regulation on the protection of animals and the environment, which will be adopted by the council on 1 january. we social democrats are not against new genetic engineering, but we want to ensure a minimum level of risk control, labelling and traceability of genetically modified plants. this creates security for consumers and agriculture.
- madam president, please. i am not sure what the commission is going to do. in the case of the regulation on plants produced using new genomic techniques, this is certainly the case. ngt plants do not contain any foreign genes, so they could also be caused by natural mutations. i believe that the limit of 20 genetic modifications is too arbitrary, especially for species with high levels of polyploidy, and is due only to the statistical fact of the limit of detection. unfortunately, the herbicide tolerance for ngt plants is to be excluded, although they are already produced on the market using the so-called classical breeding methods. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the basis of the information provided by the commission.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. classical genetic engineering and the new highly selective breeding methods are not the same thing. you can do the same thing with these new breeding methods as you can with traditional breeding, but it's much faster. this is the great advantage of creating resistance to drought, stagnation or moulding, and this is very early. we cannot, however, exploit the potential of this new technology with the current legal framework. the current legal framework is from the 1990s, and there was no crispr/cas, for example. as a liberal, i want farmers and consumers to be able to make their own decisions. that's why it's good that we have the obligation to label seeds. i also think we shouldn't have patents on life. that is in the text, and we still have to go to the biopath directive. it's all right, but it's in there. i think we need to be critical and constructive. but when i listen to the greens, it's ideological, and it's really unrepresentative to me what kind of alarmism is being made here that things are being thrown into the same pot. we've talked about it before, that's where genes change. yeah, that's life. normal breeding also changes genes. but with statements like that, you're spreading alarmism. or, say, genetic engineering is the opposite of nature. no, it is not. it can be a contribution to closer to nature agriculture. and we can't close our eyes to that. we should also not just tell agriculture how it is not working, but we should tell it how it is working. we need this law urgently.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i am not going to say anything. i come from the beautiful saarland, which is a real border region, bordering, among other things, france and luxembourg. and this is where europe is lived every day. this shows how well european cooperation, integration can work or not. it is often too late to establish cross-border rail and bus connections or to achieve better cooperation in healthcare, especially in emergency situations. the reason for this is usually due to different national legislation which does not allow local authorities to be flexible. but they need more freedom in decision-making and in carrying out projects without the burden of national administration. it is therefore urgent to simplify crossborder cooperation. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights in the member states. i therefore call on the council to abandon its blockade once and for all and to put forward with us, during this legislative period, a law that will make the lives of millions of people in european border regions easier and make europe truly alive.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, a chairde, firstly, i want to acknowledge the promotion of better cross-border cooperation. as someone who grew up near britain’s border in ireland, i know the administrative and economic hurdles, as well as the societal hardship this border imposed on our communities. so i fully appreciate the importance of cross-border cooperation. our good friday agreement established a north south council to encourage cross-border cooperation and to address some of our island’s challenges. recent days have seen a new executive established in the north of ireland, which must ensure that these north-south bodies can work together for the benefit of all the people of ireland. it’s also time for the eu institutions to engage more with citizens north of the british border in ireland. that means that each minister in the new executive should fully engage with the eu to see what benefits all-island cooperation with the eu could bring for workers and families. i urge the new executive to have an open door to the eu’s many excellent cross-border initiatives and programmes.
the european union's border regions cover 40% of its territory, 30% of its population and two million crossborder workers. the proposal for a regulation on the european cross-border mechanism was to remove administrative and legal obstacles to the implementation of joint projects. the covid pandemic, as well as everyday life, has shown us that the lack of clear rules on cross-border cooperation creates immeasurable difficulties for european citizens, while robbing local authorities of the effective tools to meet these challenges. unfortunately, despite the vote in the european parliament, the council has failed to make progress on this issue. madam minister, we are living in complicated times at european level and we cannot allow the immobility between institutions to continue to generate losses at european union level of billions of euros each year and to lose some four million jobs. i therefore call for the immediate opening of negotiations between the council, the european commission and parliament so that the will of european citizens is adequately reflected in this regulation.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of the electricity sector. in the meantime, our parliament will have to take the initiative to revive this text, because we are convinced that removing the bureaucratic barriers to crossborder cooperation will make the lives of some 150 million europeans living in border regions more practical. in fact, it is not normal to see that access to public services, hospitals and universities is less good in 2024 than in other regions. this is why the creation of such a mechanism not only promotes the spirit of cooperation which jacques delors instilled, but also gives the means to improve the living conditions of tens of millions of citizens together. parliament is ready for that. let's get this thing going!
madam president! your honor! local communities within the european union have been cooperating and friendly for years. we don't have to force anyone to do this. but our duty is to work to remove administrative barriers to unlock the full potential of these regions. i'll give you a specific example of what help is needed. my town gorzów is exactly 232 kilometers from berlin. the bus journey takes over three hours. it's expensive. and the driving schedule is limited. on the other hand, due to the lack of a coherent administrative and legal system, the investment of a railway bridge at the border between kostrina and odra has not been completed for many years. the problem is the lack of common procedures. this hinders integration and economic development and also negatively impacts the environment. i therefore expect action, including from the council. we in the european parliament express our readiness to continue to cooperate on this issue.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. the mayor of schattendorf, an austrian village on the border with austria-hungary, closed the border crossing between the two countries in march 2023. his goal is to have already announced during the election campaign, the ban on hungarian movers from the village. under the new system, a border crossing with a eur 160 licence will only be used by travellers if it can be demonstrated that they have a particularly significant economic or personal interest in it. however, to this day, it is unclear exactly what this criterion covers. of the 220 hungarian and 220 austrian nationals applying for the permit, only 33 hungarian and 126 austrian nationals were granted. it is clear that the mayor of the village is openly discriminating and depriving hungarian immigrants of their rights, which neither the austrian state nor the commission will do anything against. in fact, the commission, at the request of the european ombudsman, who is now absent, considered that the closure of the border crossing did not infringe the free movement of workers. we are very grateful to the great legal team who have filed a petition for this for six months but the proceedings are not being opened, so we call on the austrian state to immediately end the discriminatory status and open the border crossing and we call on the commission to stand up for the interests of workers. that's why it's so important that this document be heard in the council, thank you very much in the council.
president-in-office of the council. i would like to say that i have heard your message and your willingness to move forward on this matter as quickly as possible. i will not fail to forward it to the council and i assure you that we will do everything, everything in our power to work together and meet the needs of the crossborder regions. as a belgian, i can only understand this problem, of course. my country is at the heart of the european union, at the heart of the benelux and of multiple borders. so i can only add to your point and tell you that we will do everything, everything possible to advance this issue, maybe not during this parliament, but we will do everything anyway.
i would like to thank the minister, mr gozi and all those who have spoken and spoken. the discussion is closed.
the minutes and the texts approved at yesterday's sitting are available. i would ask my colleagues if they have any comments. there are no comments. the minutes are approved.
the agenda is to discuss the commission's declaration on the eu's climate objective for 2040 (2024/2547(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, many thanks for all the efforts and the work put into climate action in the past weeks, months and years. today is another step in the european union’s journey towards climate neutrality. we already have our fixed targets of 55 % of emission cuts by 2030, as everyone is aware. and now, we are launching a dialogue – and let me stress that word, ‘a dialogue’ – on the pathway towards 2040. before we get started, madam chair, it is important to recall what today’s step is and what it is not. what we are proposing, what the commission is proposing, is a solid analysis of what a good pathway towards 2040 could look like. today is in fact the start of that dialogue with citizens, with businesses, with trade unions, with members of parliament here, but also at a national and at a local level. and that is what the commission is doing. the decision to come up with a legislative proposal will be for the next commission. based on the best available science and a detailed impact assessment – as i’m sure you have seen – we are recommending that the 2040 target should be a 90 % cut in emissions. so why are we making this recommendation now? well, at the risk of repeating myself, because the case for climate action is beyond doubt and requires planning in the here and now. we’ve just lived through the hottest summer on record, and we’ve seen for ourselves the devastation that climate change brings and sadly, evermore in human lives. and as weather patterns become more unpredictable, become more extreme, this will also come with an increasing economic cost. therefore, it is important to note that inaction would lead to far larger and growing costs in the coming decades. ladies and gentlemen, there is another reason to put this forward in the here and now. we will keep on offering to our industry, businesses and financial institutions the thing they always ask for: clarity and predictability for their investments. but it is also absolutely essential – it is absolutely essential – that we need to do more to enable them and citizens to get to the destination. and going forward, it is therefore of tremendous importance that we stand firmly on two legs. one clearly is the leg of climate action and that we have to stay the course. and the other, the leg to which we need to bridge, to which we need to marry, is a strong and resilient economy with a bright future for all our businesses, large and small, and a transition that is truly just. we cannot have one without the other. i am absolutely convinced we do need to make sure that we have the two, because the vast majority of our citizens see the effects of climate change, do want to have us take action, but are also worried about what that implies for their livelihood. so let’s make sure we work on the two. ladies and gentlemen, if we manage to pull this off, if we manage to do this, we will also increase our energy independence and strengthen our eu’s open strategic autonomy. and we know how important that is. ladies and gentlemen, today’s communication lays some further foundations for future work to ramp up affordable, clean energy, to make our rules as easy as possible to navigate and to have a smart european approach to de-risk private investments in the key technologies of the future. and we need to have comprehensive investment and a comprehensive investment agenda to attract private capital. as a matter of fact, we not only need more public, but certainly also much more private capital for this endeavour. therefore, we will propose a concrete roadmap to boost and finance technologies across europe. having said that, whatever we agree and whatever we discuss here on our own continent, in this parliament, the scale of the challenge we are facing remains planetary. the eu’s emissions, at 7 % of the global total, are only one piece of the puzzle. but as global leaders in climate action, we cannot call on other countries to do more to accelerate their transitions and not continue ourselves. we’ll therefore also establish a dedicated commission taskforce on carbon market diplomacy. we will offer our expertise to other countries that wish to create their own version of what i view as one of the most successful things we have done in the domain of climate action: an emissions trading system. and this is one example of where, with other partners, we can race to the top both from a climate action perspective and from the perspective of a global level playing field for sustainable businesses to flourish. ladies and gentlemen, let me wrap up. tackling the climate crisis is a marathon, not a sprint. and 2040 seems far away, but the sooner we start planning, the sooner we start working towards it, the better equipped we will be to continue and ultimately finish this journey. so we’re starting the political discussions in this esteemed chamber, and we will continue to do so outside of this room with all stakeholders that are relevant to this endeavour, including, of course, the various businesses and all of our citizens. and we do that to make sure that we have a balanced approach and everyone at our continent can be seen and can meet the finish line.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission, ursula von der leyen and wopke hoekstra, in particular on the commission's announcement that it is starting a dialogue. so today it is not a decision where the commission says we know everything and we are pushing it now, but there is a dialogue on this goal but perhaps even more importantly, on the conditions for us to achieve even ambitious climate targets. i am particularly grateful that you, commissioner, mentioned this international dimension. we are indeed seeing a great deal of interest in our emissions trading and in cbam. the rapporteur, mohammed chahim, knows this too: many third countries want to work with us. the directorate-general for climate is flooded with requests from third countries. but we saw ourselves at the cop in dubai that third countries were saying: we don't really have a proper contact with the commission, there is no one who is going forward with us now. that's gonna change with this task force. i thank you very much for that. this could be the most effective, cheapest and most effective climate action ever -- that we work with those who want to work with us and thus form a strong international group. secondly, we must enable industry, agriculture and people to achieve truly ambitious goals. we need the net zero industry act. he's being negotiated in another room. and for this we need a positive approach to agriculture: not to condemn, not to corner, but to see agriculture as a partner. agriculture and forestry are the only sectors that are already taking co2 out of the atmosphere. and on the way, we have to keep going. last but not least, the people. many people, especially those with low incomes, who work hard every day but have little savings and who are difficult to invest in at first, need more support not only from the climate social fund but also from national funds. this is in the legislation and the commission must now tap the fingers of the member states to ensure that this is finally implemented.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner, you are proposing today and it was an obligation that we had set together in european climate law a target of reducing co2 emissions by 90% by 2040. this figure is based on science, and we therefore support it. but it must also, of course, not just lead us to set a goal, but to achieve it. and to achieve that, we see two conditions for success. the first condition for success is that you have the appropriate funding. if we do not have the appropriate funding, we will not succeed. the example of the united states, with the biden plan, which according to the latest estimates could raise $1.2 trillion over 10 years, should inspire us to have a serious discussion after the european elections about our collective ability to finance this transition to europeans. the second condition for success is that we may stop targeting farmers and not the rest of the value chain. i am struck by the fact that, if farmers have made efforts, the rest of the value chain the big distributors, the processors is not subject to any rules. i see that in the communication you have made today, you are going in that direction, and that is good news. so supporting this goal, and also supporting the conditions that will make us succeed in achieving, in real life, in an acceptable, fair and competitive way, our climate goal.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all, thank you to the commission for this communication. now to those who are now so surprised by it: first of all, we have international negotiations. already in 2015, in the paris agreement, it was very clearly promised that every five years we needed a continuous debate for our targets later on. so, in 2015, when everyone was applauding paris, you knew that between 2023 and 2025, we need to discuss 2035. well, the commission makes that 2040. this was everything part of the paris agreement, but maybe some people forgot about that. by the way, in the climate law, we said ‘within six months of the global stocktake, we will come up with this discussion,’ and the global stocktake was in dubai. so we have to do this. people who are surprised now, maybe they should read why they voted for the climate law, because then you agreed with this time path. on the number, 90 %, there i have to say that that if you read the advisory board very clearly, they say you need to sit between 90-95 %. if you are serious, looking at our historical responsibility and the possibilities of our co2 budget, basically even we should be climate neutral by 2040. that’s what science is telling us. so 90% is on the low end, but we know the difficulty. so we can welcome the 90% also because it was promised before in october. then, how are we going to reach that 90 %? first of all, we need to give a very clear signal for the end of fossil in the electricity system. somewhere there, some sentences have improved. but, on the other hand, you said, mr hoekstra, in dubai, don’t ccs your way out of the problem. well, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of ccs-ing out of the problem by europe now. even up to the amount of 400 million tons of co2; even the ccs lobby is only counting on 300. so, you are overshooting the ccs lobby. that’s impressive. maybe the last point: you deleted everything on agriculture. please don’t make the dutch mistake by not talking about the agriculture. it doesn’t solve the problems. suddenly you get court cases and everything. so, maybe we need to start talking about the agriculture. you put it away in this communication, but that doesn’t make the problem go away.
in the name of the id faction. the commission has already taken a number of steps. not only is it to achieve net zero co2 by 2050, and from then on, even to remove co2 from the atmosphere with the absurd goal of reducing that atmospheric co2. no, the political climate madness is now set to start new high altitudes by 2040, a 90% reduction in co2 emissions compared to 1990. let's look at my country, the green climate world champion germany: deindustrialization is progressing rapidly because industry can no longer afford the world's most expensive electricity prices there. the co2 reduction is still only a modest 36.8%, because electricity on many days a year, despite record renewable energy output, is the one on paper on many days, over 90% of which comes from coal, gas and oil. what about the eu? we're just so excited about the co2 emissions going down. the eu, however, has only 9.5% of global co2 emissions. and we are pleased to see a consequent decline in gdp of only 14.3% in global terms. brics countries, on the other hand, are looking forward to increasing co2 emissions and a global gdp growth of 32%. the green and red wef policy of a leyen force is unfortunately the most stupid economic accident in the history of the eu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 90% by 2040 is the right thing to do and you are keeping your commitments to us. the european union must confirm, indeed accelerate, the achievement of this objective. however, we must be realistic and have our feet firmly planted on the ground. unfortunately, our economy today depends on fossil fuels, and if we want to make it sustainable, we need investment. without money, there is no change and we risk leaving behind millions of people and entire productive sectors, starting with agriculture. the five star movement has always called for a new recovery fund, a fair and inclusive transition fund focused on renewables, electrification and efficiency. we can't fail. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a new directive. we do not turn our backs on the new generations and the future of the entire world, threatened by the catastrophe of climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, what is happening in the world is that non-european regions are looking at what we are doing in europe with great curiosity and interest, precisely because it is sometimes the main factor of competitiveness for them and not for us. we are the most sustainable continent in the world and we have a very challenging business. right, we can afford it, as long as someone pays. what is the price we are asking our citizens and our industries for? we think of the classic and very competitive european energy industries: basic chemistry, steelmaking, ceramics, glass or cement. they no longer have sound investment programmes in the european union. you consolidate what you have and invest elsewhere. basic chemistry invests more in the united states than in europe. but it is the basic chemistry of europe, not the basic chemistry of other continents! so, what's the signal to pick up? it's not about reducing environmental ambitions. i got it. it is to reconcile them with a sound industrial management plan for the european economy, because the risk we are facing, which will have a huge social impact, but above all, which will also reduce the cultural strength of our research and, therefore, our propensity for innovation, is to have a sustainable continent, but without companies, without industry, without research and, therefore, without a heart. and it's a risk we can't afford.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. we want to be climate neutral by 2050 at the latest, and we have to achieve that goal, which we owe the europeans. and for that we need an ambitious interim target: we must save at least 90% of our greenhouse gases by 2040 otherwise we will fail in our efforts, otherwise we will not make it possible for europeans to live here well in the future. i am very grateful that the commission has followed the scientific advice on this point. but it is also very clear that support for the poorest, especially those who cannot afford a climate-friendly life simply by moving to air-conditioned homes, is still lacking. we also have too few resources for the transformation. and i am quite surprised that the commission is so positive about the sinking, when we are still getting results here and now, when it comes to the natural sinking of the collars. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights.
mr president, commissioner, we have a legal obligation to set a climate target for 2040 and to start the process towards adopting the target. that is what we all agreed on during the negotiation about the climate law. we also have an obligation to live up to our commitments and to do our fair share as the eu to keep the change within safe limits. the priority must be to phase out fossil fuel as soon as possible, and my colleagues already spoke about the 90 %, and that’s the line. but while we are studying the assessment, we have to take a glance at the reality. the reality is that agriculture does not have the same possibilities as industry. agriculture does not have the same productivity development. thereby we have a structural problem. we cannot place the same onus on agriculture as on industry. that has always to be taken into account in future decisions. then, the last point, on commissioner hoekstra, he said that he would keep to the finish line – i hope the spelling is right, with two ‘n’s!
mr president, i want to speak to you. commissioner, your climate target is questionable. it's the minimum of what's scientifically necessary. even söder and aiwanger in bavaria want to be climate neutral by 2040. so, just 90% reduction is really not an overload. the economy wants bold, long-term climate targets because they ensure prosperity and investment security. and the cdu thinks that braking is economic policy. braking doesn't create growth and jobs! mr hoekstra, ccs is not a solution to the climate crisis, as you said in november, and now you are doing the opposite: gas and coal power plants are simply going to run longer with ccs. this technology is not developed, it is extremely expensive and a giant gift to gas and coal companies. stop the fog candles now! let's take what works -- that's cheap solar and wind energy and bold climate protection. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
question on the procedure of the blue card. mr bloss, you say that the european commission's objective is not ambitious enough. i just have one question. the greens have decided at european level this weekend that they want 2040 100%. do the reports say the german greens disagreed? and who are the german greens? and why are the german greens not fighting in the german federal government for this 2040 target? so before you insult others, you should first know where you stand, at home and at european level.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. the reports that the germans voted against are not true; maybe you should get a little more information. but what is true is what you said: we must take international responsibility. but that doesn't mean that we should be doing climate change work elsewhere. this means that we are taking on our historic responsibility, and this means that we need to achieve climate protection, climate neutrality as soon as possible, at best by 2040. i also have a question for you, mr liese: you said yesterday that the commission has officials who are only thinking about torturing european citizens, european industry and european farmers. do you not find this rather anti-eu populist? and you don't want to apologize to them?
mr president, i am not going to say anything. look it in the eye. your climate warfare has gone beyond the call of duty. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the subject of the european parliament's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. a costly policy which makes large parts of the european middle class today lose all hope that their economic future looks better for their children than they have experienced. we have a large majority in this house against the left, which wants to ban nuclear power completely in the european energy mix. two steps back towards greater reliance on putin's gas and oil. but that is what has been achieved in germany. and what has been the result? it hasn't been green. it hasn't been cheap. it would have been stupid and costly. and in the same way, we see over and over again here in this house that you think you have to sit down and choose what kind of a little technology that your lobbyists have just given you money to promote, instead of doing a market-based green transformation. instead of making a green transition, where we in europe develop the technologies that will make the world green, and not just tax our industry and our businesses off the continent. will you be happy to see the day we are left behind, impoverished and poor, while a coal-fired power plant is still being built every week in china? i think that is what you think when you hear the speakers here in parliament.
president, i'm going to drop in the door right now: commissioner hoekstra will show his true face. climate action is urgent and we need urgent action, the commissioner said barely four months ago. but less than a week after the farmers in europe blocked roads and set fire to everything in protest against environmental and climate measures, this commissioner is giving up everything to give them what they want. by not abolishing fossil subsidies, by not reducing emissions from agriculture and by not stopping the promotion of meat. we're not going to solve the climate crisis like this. nobody benefits here, not even the farmers. lieutenant, keep your back straight. to stop climate change, to save the planet, and to give farmers a real perspective for the future.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. climate neutrality by 2050 is our common goal. this goal remains. we christian democrats and i personally, as a mother, want to preserve our livelihoods and those of our children. it's not about whether, it's about how. it is not enough to put a number in the window. in order to achieve further drastic co2 savings, the framework conditions must be appropriate. and for that, you need us, commissioner, members of parliament. we have the ear on the ground, in the people, in the science, in the businesses. at the same time, you must take a much more consistent global approach, as mr liese has already made clear. the commissioner, a climate social fund and flexibility in enlarged emissions trading, an eu commodity strategy, the conversion of existing hydrogen gas pipelines, the option of modular nuclear reactors, no forced sanitation of buildings, less regulation of zero-emission technologies, a dialogue with european farmers all these solutions compatible with reality have been or are still being debated by parliament. the commission's communication can only be the beginning of intensive, constructive and fruitful discussions with us. i am firmly convinced that climate protection must be based on working technologies, efficient and affordable. otherwise we will not make the necessary progress until 2040.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. the commission's proposal for our 2040 climate target is the absolute minimum of what is necessary and feasible. the conservatives are now criticizing that we should first achieve our 2030 climate targets, but they are also the ones who are not missing out on the opportunity to sabotage the commission's right-wing climate policy instead of looking for real solutions. they act as the protective force of the rural area, but they offer no alternative to these very people. mobility: my home country of schleswig-holstein is rural, the roads are often long. what do i have more than a commuter in the country? if we continue to rely on combustion engines while gasoline and diesel prices go up because the cdu wanted to do that in the emissions trading, or if we invest massively in e-mobility, in public transport, in sustainable infrastructure, and thereby create sustainable alternatives that people can really use? no one needs a fake debate. you're on the right side of the house, and you're discovering your social side whenever it comes to defending corporate interests here in these negotiations. and then you have the triviality of pretending to be for people. we must oppose this, we must expose these lies, for the protection of the social climate!
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. it is good that the commission will now present a strategy to better deal with the future water crisis. i'm the only one who lacks faith, because we've basically got a strategy. we have the water framework directive, for example. it has recently celebrated its 20th anniversary, and unfortunately we are far from achieving these goals. and as far as the water in the landscape is concerned, we already have legislation with the fauna flora habitat directive, which also makes it possible to keep water in the landscape, to make more groundwater. that means that implementation will come to a head. and many of my colleagues in the last debate have addressed the farmers' protests and justified them as farmers against climate policy. i do not believe this, because these farmers' protests started with the fact that there is a water shortage in this sector which is dependent on water like no other. and that is why i think we should not leave it to a strategy, we should do more, for example, ecodesign. we need to make a stronger policy to waste less water.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of steps. if 400 million people decide in june how this house will work for the next five years, what our relationship with our neighbors is, i wish they would first form their own opinion, not that of putin, erdogan or xi; an opinion based on facts, not on deepfakes, incitement and disinformation. and i wish that in july 720 mps would sit here in this room, standing up for the interests of the people in our union and for human rights and not for the interests of aggressors and imperialists and not for their intelligence services. we must wake up from the snake monkey land of our dreams. we must recognize and combat attempts at espionage and infiltration within our own ranks. this is not a game of chance and must be done in accordance with the rule of law. yes, this is a hercules task, but it is a necessary task, a task for all of us, for all of the factions, including mine. no, the eu is not at war with russia, as russian propaganda shows. but moscow is looking for confrontation with us, and moscow is trying to do everything to influence our decisions and our information field. everyone who sees and follows me in the russian media knows that. the kremlin wants to strike the heart of our democracy and destroy our unity and pluralism. and to all those who are involved and who feel addressed, i say, be ashamed! i have always said this, even at our group meetings. and if in the present case a colleague is seriously suspected of spying for a russian intelligence agency, we call for and support a full investigation and call on the authorities in each member state to investigate. last but not least, the question of self-discipline is important in this house. this applies to our factions as well, to each of us. maximum responsibility and prudence: we owe it to our constituents.
mr president, madam commissioner, in the various illegal killings of nicolas maduro there is the disability of henrique capriles, in the past, and today of corina machado. it is a measure that clearly violates their political rights and, by extension, threatens the right of all venezuelans to participate in fair and free elections. this incident occurs in a broader context of arbitrary detentions, harassment and restrictions on civil society, the independent press and political opponents. such acts seriously undermine the democratic fabric of venezuela. the union needs to give a political signal, use all the instruments at its disposal, impose sanctions and be a voice that, with other latin american governments, vigorously presses the venezuelan government to fulfil its obligations: the repeal of arbitrary disabling and the guarantee of a transparent electoral process under the watchful eye of the european union. since parliament, we have not grown weary of giving a collective voice and supporting the restoration of human rights and democracy in venezuela.
mr president, we must say this loud and clear: the continuation of the bloody maduro regime is one of the biggest failures of the european union's foreign policy. twenty-five years of dictatorship, thousands of venezuelans persecuted, tortured or killed and eight million expelled is the result. half of the european left is silent and the other half is cooperating, as they did with the soviet regime in eastern europe until the fall of the berlin wall. and now macron and sanchez join forces taking pictures and protecting delcy rodriguez, the regime's financial agent in europe. gas and oil in exchange for human rights. that is the european hypocrisy with the venezuelans. and now, the voice and image of the democratic opposition, maria corina machado, is disabled by the terror regime. the europeans of good will - those who do not want oil and gas stained with blood - say no to maduro's electoral farce. we want free and transparent elections and maria corina machado as a candidate. any other option must be considered as collaborating with the repressive regime and must be denounced.
mr. president, my colleagues, president maduro of venezuela is a communist. it calls for equality and rights for workers, like all communists. but workers from these countries flee to other countries where there is no equality of all workers, but quite the opposite, there is freedom of the market, and the communists do not like freedom. president maduro is not even allowing his main opposition candidate, ms. machado, to run. so the communists don't like democracy either. because if we're all equal, what do we need more parties for? there are people who say that communism and socialism are good ideas, but they are, by the way, badly implemented, and badly implemented in yugoslavia, the soviet union, nicaragua, venezuela, and even north korea. so today, when equality and other socialist ideas are being re-imposed, we must not tire of saying that communism and socialism are just bad ideas.
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank you, members of the european parliament. thank you for your strong support to the venezuelan people, to democracy, to the rule of law. recent events in venezuela clearly indicate the fragility of the agreements reached in barbados. therefore, we must continue to support the ongoing dialogue between the government and the opposition in coordination with our international and regional partners. while the dialogue process faces numerous obstacles and persistent threats, it remains the only route capable of ensuring peace and stability in venezuela in the run-up to this year’s presidential elections. we recognise the overwhelming support achieved by maria corina machado as the main opposition representative for the 2024 presidential elections. the eu continues to be very concerned about decisions that prevent members of the opposition from exercising their basic political right, as has been the case with maria corina machado and henrique capriles. these decisions undermine democracy and the rule of law, and only further deepen the protracted political and social crisis in venezuela. only a peaceful and democratic solution, led by venezuelans themselves, will allow for the restoration of political stability, economic growth and social well-being for the millions of venezuelans currently in need. the humanitarian crisis in venezuela is of utmost concern, and addressing the human rights situation in the country must be at the forefront of our collective efforts. the venezuelans deserve free, fair and transparent presidential elections. thank you for this debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, dear members of parliament, i take note of your comments and concerns. venezuela is certainly and currently at a crossroads. we will continue to condemn actions that impede the democratic aspirations of the venezuelan people, particularly the obstruction of their representatives from participating in the elections. the european union will continue monitoring closely the human rights situation in venezuela, including the issue of political prisoners. the eu will review the sanctions in place depending on the evolution of the situation in the country, including the implementation of the barbados agreement. i conclude by stressing once again the european union’s unwavering commitment to continue all our efforts in support of a venezuelan-led negotiated political solution that leads to the restoration of democracy, the rule of law, respect of human rights in venezuela.
i have received five motions for resolutions to close this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will be on thursday.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission communication on the current state of implementation and management of the global gateway two years after its launch (2024/2553(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to update you on global gateway. from increased geopolitical tensions to climate disasters to the soaring global infrastructure investment gap – the times are challenging for europe and for the world. facing so much instability, the need for the eu to increase resilience for europe and partner countries has grown stronger. and most importantly, the eu has shown that it is not turning its back on its partners. not today, not tomorrow. the global gateway investment strategy is europe’s eur 300-billion injection to accelerate the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. and global gateway is delivering. last year, we started 87 global gateway flagship projects. to give just one example, in namibia, a eur 1-billion team europe partnership to decarbonise their economies and create jobs is taking place. together, we will unleash namibia’s potential as a frontrunner in green energy and help europe to become the first carbon-neutral continent by 2050. this example illustrates the kind of comprehensive, quality-based partnership that distinguishes global gateway from other partnership offers. let me draw your attention to six key achievements last year. first, the eu-celac summit in july. we agreed on a eur 45-billion investment agenda that reinvigorates europe’s partnership with latin america and the caribbean. it ranged from tropical forest protection in brazil to the deployment of 5g in costa rica. second, in october, the eu welcomed more than 20 heads of state, 70 ministers and industry and financial sector leaders to brussels for the first global gateway forum. in two days, we signed more than eur 3 billion in new agreements. third, in addition to the global gateway governing board, with the participation of the european parliament, we continue to operate operationalise the global gateway governance structure with key stakeholders. we held the first ever meetings of the business advisory group and the civil society and local authorities dialogue platform. fourth, we worked with member states, the european investment bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development to define the global gateway financial monitoring methodology. we will track the progress on our eur 300-billion investments by 2027 in transparency, as you requested. fifth, we mobilised private sector finance, organising more than a dozen global gateway business forums in partner countries and numerous events in brussels. and, last but not least, we made global gateway visible. we organised joint team europe global gateway missions to namibia, to the drc, to zambia, argentina, brazil, chile and mexico. and we showcased global gateway in the g7 hiroshima summit, the g20 summit and in cop28. honourable members of this parliament, this success in 2023 was truly a collaborative effort of all team europe actors. looking ahead, global gateway will deliver even more results this year, with 138 flagship projects and a focus on key areas recommended by the global gateway board. delivering on them will require true teamwork. i look forward to the continued cooperation with the european parliament.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in a globalised world, trans—regional infrastructure projects have become an integral part of international relations, and we all know billions and billions of euros are lacking annually to meet the united nations development goals. indeed, it was commission president ursula von der leyen who recognised the signs of the time and launched the prestige project global gateway in december 2021. with that, the european union has started to fill the global infrastructure financing gap with targeted offers. i would like to thank commissioner johansson for presenting and naming a number of flagship projects all around the globe, which are examples that global gateway is starting to deliver. however, we all know there is plenty of competition. by the end of last year, 146 countries, including 17 eu member states, had signed memorandums of understanding with china to become part of the belt and road initiative. not only do projects of the belt and road often come paired with allegations of corruption or environmental damage, they can also lead participating countries into a debt spiral. this is starting to cause serious mistrust in africa, in latin america and in asia. the european union must not squander this opportunity. the inaugural gateway forum on 25 and 26 of october 2023 in brussels gave our partners a clearer idea of how this initiative functions and how they can participate in it. to match the political commitment, we now need to mobilise the firepower of the private sector. public funds alone will not be able to generate the levels of investment needed. it will take time, patience and sustained political will to develop the global gateway into a successful global brand, but it is well worth it.
in the name of the s&d faction. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. yes, we want to, no, we have to go new ways. we must start to new shores the crises of this world demand this. and our partners in the global south are asking us to do the same. global gateway could be a major answer to this challenge. but i ask: are we already offering the partnership for good education and work, the partnership to fight poverty and the diseases that it really needs? will we create the energy of tomorrow so that value is still produced in the countries where it is produced, which is the wealth of the world? or is it just headlines, empty promises, messages that don't actually connect? i have a strong advice to the commission and to the member states: finally create a parliamentary basis for the global gateway. and if you really do not want to miss the target, you should involve the european parliament in a different way than it has been.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, i’m glad we have this debate, because we need the full energy and the creativity and the common efforts also of this house to promote the global gateway’s agenda. the global gateway was announced in 2021. in 2022, it was bogged down because of internal contradictions within the brussels bureaucracy. in 2023, the global gateway made substantial progress, as has been explained, on the governance, on the efforts to push the narrative, to clarify the priorities and on the global gateway forum. this year must become the year in which brussels and the member states’ capitals, according to the ‘team europe’ approach, make it the centrepiece of the eu’s offer for a new partnership with people and countries in the so-called global south. without such an offer, our talk about geopolitical ambition will turn into shallow, empty talking points. global gateway is not development policy as usual: it is co-development policy, it is a transformative approach with clear priorities that are focussed on the digital transformation, the climate and realistic, resilient supply chains. with the global gateway, the eu wants to contribute strategically to the global commons, and the eu can be a driver and shaper of the global transformation. it must be made a central task of the next commission and this parliament.
the next speaker is charles goerens for the renew group. and let me wish you a very happy birthday today, mr goerens.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, if you had not mentioned my age, it would not have been an insult. thank you so much. dear friends, the global gateway initiative seems to be coming out of its prime. after a trial period of more than two years, we are seeing a multitude of projects taking shape to improve connectivity in the most diverse areas. in line with the principle of policy primacy, the global gateway strategy aims to address the infrastructure investment deficit. we have repeatedly stressed the enormous amounts required to be able to meet the ever-increasing demand. the united nations estimates that the additional amount required for achieving the sustainable development goals is $4.2 trillion a year. of course, public development aid worldwide is only about a fifteenth of that. the private sector will therefore have to mobilise the missing amounts. to this end, the financial architecture of the european union's development is expected to be up to par. the european investment bank is arguably best placed, together with the national development banks and the european bank for reconstruction and development, to meet these needs. the evolution took time to begin. she's become promising in the meantime. now that the movement has begun, it is important to act to mobilise maximum private sector capital to achieve the objectives pursued.
in the name of the left faction. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. whether it is the expansion of the electricity grid in madagascar and its rural areas or the improvement of drinking water supply in ecuador, it is important that the european union finally implements the global gateway to bring about real action. let 's not pretend . according to unctad, there is an annual investment gap of $4 trillion in developing countries. the 300 billion euros provided by team europe by 2027 are therefore just a drop in the bucket. the need for investment shows that the eu has certainly not faced the challenge alone. i would therefore like to mention the fundamental problem of this instrument: the geopolitization of development cooperation. no discussion of the global gateway will come about without a comparison of the belt and road initiative. the prevailing misconception in this context is that we are in a developmental race with china. the real race, however, is against the time that remains for us and our partner countries, who have the same right to participate in shaping self-sustaining economic development, to fight climate change socially. the urgency of the problem requires a massive acceleration of the implementation of the projects. instead of putting geopolitical rivalries on the backs of developing countries, we need to pool our resources and invest money with the help of existing multilateral institutions in a meaningful way and in line with the 17 sustainable development goals.
mr president, the global gateway strategy aims to provide a credible perspective on the new silk routes being set up by china and to strengthen the union's overall influence in the global south. to achieve these strategic objectives, global gateway needs to be a mechanism that responds effectively to development needs in partner countries. ten years after its implementation, we need to consider whether we are really aligning our efforts with the interests of our partners. success depends on our ability to choose projects that are in line with the priorities of partner countries, including local and regional governments, but also on our ability to ensure that our efforts contribute significantly to the sustainable development goals and have a tangible impact on people's lives. furthermore, the global gateway should catalyze private investment in the sectors that can benefit the most, while ensuring that private sector involvement in key areas such as education or health does not replace public sector involvement. finally, to ensure the success of global gateway, we need to deploy partnerships that chart a coherent path to sustainable development and that create a difference for our global south partners from the offerings of our geopolitical competitors, such as china and russia.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. europe, as a geopolitical actor, must offer solutions to problems that bring progress to our partners and new allies. global gateway should be the better counter-design for china's new silk road. the good news is, the structure of the global gateway initiative is standing. it took two years, but now the board is established with representatives from the commission and the member states. the advisory group with representatives from the business and financial sectors has also been consulted and the dialogue forum with civil society has also started its work. it is difficult to assess whether the bodies work well together, what geopolitical value the projects have and how much european companies are involved, because parliament unfortunately receives very little information. i think, commissioner, you are giving us a chance. global gateway projects need to be memorable. the benefits for all project partners must be clear. we must talk about it as a joint project for the future. they have natural allies in us, meps, but also in many members of the national parliaments. we have to make sure that global gateway projects are successful. but we also have to shape the narrative for that. let us work together across the official governance structures to make the programme a success for us and our partners.
i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken any further steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a manner that is consistent with the objectives of the programme.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion of the commission's declaration on the multilateral negotiations for the 13th wto ministerial conference in abu dhabi (2024/2527(rsp) from 26 to 29 february 2024.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the clear commitments made by the european parliament to a future-oriented wto are very important signals, because at a time when autocracies are attacking democracies with weapons, disinformation or economic dependence multilateral cooperation is more important than ever. and yet multilateralism is harder than ever. the world trade organization has always been the heart of our global economic cooperation. but we are experiencing great geopolitical pressure, coupled with protectionism and trade wars, and we would have to work on a solution in the wto. but the system itself has come into its own. if china continues to claim the status of a developing country, if the us continues to cripple dispute resolution because it does not appoint judges, then it is really obvious: the wto is no longer functioning. but our european response must not be a stand alone or protectionist. our answer must always be to continue to fight for reform. and the last ministerial conference gave us hope. there is now a chance to launch a package, a package for a real reform of the wto, which will bring a solution to resolve trade disputes. we need more flexibility for multilateral agreements and above all, finally a lasting solution for modern e-commerce rules, because digital trade already accounts for 25% of all trade today. the wto must enter the 21st century and i expect the commission to fight with all its heart for the future of multilateral trade.
the report also highlights the importance of the european union's efforts to promote the development of the european community. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 8 february 2024.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the working conditions of teachers in the eu by dolors montserrat on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-000002/2024 b9-0007/24) (2023/3015(rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. since i am not a smoker, i had no idea what dentsu is, and i was not aware of this track-and-trace system, which apparently provides every cigarette packaging in the eu with a code that records where the cigarettes are made and how they have moved through the supply chain. now that i think about it, i'm amazed that big brother is already watching which cigarettes you smoke, who made them, and who sold them to you. i think that the conflicts of interest which are being debated here and which are certainly to be condemned and also to be eliminated or clarified are negligible. i am not sure if this is the right time to ask questions. we should use our resources, our time, our responsibilities better than continue this bureaucratic nonsense. you could almost think we don't have inflation, we don't have shrinking economies, we don't have wars, we don't have mass immigration problems. let us really address the right and difficult and real issues.
