mr president, i am not going to say anything. the negotiations on the climate-damaging f-gases were certainly not easy, but they were worth it. because despite the opposition from several eu countries, we managed to make a good deal. we are now to vote on that agreement, and i would urge you to vote for it. because with this agreement we are taking concrete climate action by cutting the use of f-gases. now we're acting responsibly. by setting a date for the complete cessation of the operation, we act with foresight. by taking concrete action, we are benefiting the climate. the agreement will reduce the eu's climate impact by as much as 2.5%. 2.5 percent may not sound like much, but it is more than several eu countries are saying. this is more than the emissions of the entire eu aviation sector. with this agreement we are taking an important step forward in the fight against climate change. vote for the climate. vote for the deal.
for the left group. mr president! every year, public institutions in the eu spend about 15 trillion kroner on public procurement. unfortunately, it is repeatedly shown that the companies that win these tenders do not respect basic workers' rights. this is possible because eu rules today are totally unclear on what local authorities have to do with social and environmental requirements. in contrast, eu rules are clear that public contracts must be awarded at the lowest price. it is not necessary to be a genius to think that the lowest price without clear social requirements naturally creates a race against the bottom of wages and working conditions and unfair competition. it's just some shit. public funds should not finance tax evasion, social dumping and labour market crime. that is why we in the unity list and the left group in the european parliament have taken the initiative in this debate. it is absolutely essential that we have the rules revised as soon as possible. no tax credits should go to employers without agreement. i therefore ask the commissioner: when will the commission put forward a proposal for a revision of the procurement directive so that fraudulent companies can be selected from?
mr president, this parliament has adopted legislation and policies which have helped improve the working conditions for millions of workers in europe. but, to be honest, none of this would have been remotely possible without the hard work of our assistants. unfortunately, the current rules governing the determination of our assistants are extremely precarious and completely opposite to the fair working conditions that we promote in parliament’s employment and social affairs committee. if an mep suddenly leaves their mandate, the current rules essentially entail that the assistant of the mep could lose their job from one day to another. i therefore call on parliament’s administration to ensure fair rules and working conditions for our assistants, and to consult with the apa committee in this process.
madam president, i am not going to say anything. - what? co-worker, farmer! europe must be self-sufficient in food in the future. if we don't have food security, we're vulnerable. the climate, nature, the animals also need us to produce our own food in europe, because we are the greenest food cluster in the world and have the best animal welfare. unfortunately, we see flooding and drought in several places. it is ruining the harvest for european farmers. and we're becoming more and more people. in the future, we'll have to produce more for less. we need all the tools we have in the toolbox. it's plant breeding, bio-solutions, precision farming and much, much more. we can't afford to sit on our hands any longer. we're going to get the new technology. they're flying out. we must produce more and produce less and produce more and more europeans for the benefit of the economy, the climate, nature, animal welfare, farmers and european citizens.
for the ppe group. the commission is not going to vote. geothermal energy, it's down in our underground and it's just waiting to come up and contribute to the huge amounts of renewable and very stable energy that we're actually talking about. we have simply not taken geothermal energy seriously in time and have provided the necessary framework and tools to use it. this means that we could have spent a lot of time at first agreeing on whether we believe in geothermal energy as part of the future energy mix in the eu. fortunately, we have not done so in the group of negotiators who are now putting forward the report, which is due for a vote tomorrow thursday. we agree on that. geothermal energy is an important part of the energy of the future in the eu, and i would like to thank all my colleagues, negotiators and in particular our negotiator, professor krasnodębski, for a very good and focused cooperation. the report also states that we want a strategy that actually promotes the proliferation of geothermal energy. a strategy that is not only full of objectives but also contains tools that are useful. one of the crucial tools is data. data, some of which actually exists but is not shared or available to those who can and want to start extracting geothermal energy as quickly as possible. the report also states that a geothermal energy extraction project must be compared with all other energy types, particularly in terms of financing and insurance. and then there is the unfortunate oldie but goodie about permits to start a geothermal project. we must not be left behind in a world where prejudice, waiting times and bureaucracy are stifling initiatives and projects. i am very pleased that the commission has made a number of proposals for the european parliament and the council. the climate struggle is not won without geothermal energy, and the earth is literally burning beneath us. but let's use that condition to get started now.
for the s&d group. in less than two years, the heat from the earth will be felt in the old houses of aarhus, denmark's second largest city, because a project is underway which will supply the old houses of 20 percent of the old houses of 36,000 households with geothermal energy in a few years, and it will be the largest geothermal project in the eu. it's a good idea, and we need more of these projects because it's renewable energy. it is stable energy and it is energy that can help us get rid of the last parts of putin's gas that the eu still imports. so, let's get more projects like those in aarhus. let's get them out across the eu. i hope that a geothermal strategy can help, and therefore i hope that the commission will take note of our recommendation and come up with such a geothermal strategy. we need this so we can get more green heat to the benefit of the climate, to the detriment of putin.
madam president, i am not going to say anything. in 2023, the european year of skills focused on the problems, which are precisely that 74% of all eu smes lack a skilled workforce. it covers everything from the opening hours of restaurants during the peak season to the waiting lists of hospitals for operations that can bring them back into the workforce. two thirds of all eu businesses are looking for it professionals in vain, and too many of the workforce are stuck with the fact that not all eu countries have adequate or good enough childcare systems. eight million europeans, young europeans, have no education or work, but a year of focusing on the problems will not solve them. we have to do something, and we have to do it now. the commission must therefore immediately submit an action plan an emergency plan to ensure that the workforce is increased and filled with the necessary skills. we are not going to starve the economic muscle that must pump growth, prosperity, security and prospects into europe unhindered.
for the renew group. mr president, commissioner, president, colleague! the proposal that we have to ban all basic travel is one of the worst i've ever seen. the stomach of desk politics is a long-term search. our fishermen, they supply some of the world's greenest and healthiest foods. we can be proud of that and i sincerely hope that parliament will approve our compromise proposals from the committee on fisheries. that is why it has been crucial for me to develop a plan that the fishermen can live by and follow. i think it is very important that fishermen are at least present at the negotiating table in the future. the fishermen must be heard when proposals come in with such serious consequences. they are the ones who ensure that we have healthy, green and nutritious food on our plates even when caught with bottom trawl. bundtrawl can easily be sustainable.
madam president, i am not going to say anything. at last week's eu summit, a recurring problem was on everyone's agenda. the problem is called viktor orbán. the hungarian prime minister uses summit after summit ukraine to blackmail the rest of the eu. orbán is holding the ukrainian people hostage to share in our fellow citizens' treasures. tax credits that are otherwise withheld because orbán violates the human rights of his own people. this is totally unacceptable! this is gonna stop! we already have a tool in the toolbox that we could use today: fractate orbán's veto. let us not waste time debating whether or not to remove the veto from all eu countries. let's use the tool we're holding and stop orban's blackmail. last week, the eu leaders once again let themselves get caught up in the crowd. it's time to stop!
madam president, i am not going to say anything. we're supposed to be masters of our own house. we will continue to keep innovation and production in european hands. that is why we must allow the use of the new plant breeding techniques, crispr, tomorrow. otherwise, the train will pass through europe. in many parts of the world, new technologies are already in full swing. that is why we must make the decision now. technologies like crispr are a huge asset for both the climate, the environment and food security, and it will be a huge help to our farmers. the population of the earth is increasing, and we must and must produce more for less. we need all the tools we have in the toolbox - even the new ones! thousands of scientists have asked us to vote yes to crispr. it is essential to keep innovation and research in european hands. it's crucial to the game. the climate campaign.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. the hottest year ever measured. the wettest month in a man's memory. the driest summer in 100 years. climate change has long since ceased to be something we should worry about our children experiencing. some of us find it most in the scary articles we read online. others will be destroyed. climate change is destroying people's homes, wiping out entire cities, and killing people every day. it requires the eu to take responsibility. that we show that we're a green superpower when it comes to climate. that we set high and ambitious targets and that we demand that those who execute pay for it too. today the commission says we must achieve a climate target of 90% by 2030. if that were the case, we'd be climate neutral by 2040. but i am positively surprised, because i can feel the right wing and the black industry breathing down our necks. they will stop all climate progress and slow down all green legislation. and if they get a large majority after the election, they can get their will. this must not happen, and we guarantee it in the green group.
mr. chairman, please! as the commission can hear, many of us are looking forward to the water resilience initiative, or as it is called in danish: the water resilience initiative. but when we hear a little bit about the pipes, what we have for march, it sounds like we're going to have a debate from june to september, where we're going to talk about all the challenges we have with water. and perhaps there will be more good suggestions for how to solve it - sometime in the future. i am simply saying that we need to hear that you have understood that there are many of us here in the european parliament, in the european economic and social committee, in the whole of civil society and more and more out in the living europe who are calling for a 'eu blue deal'. a systematic, well thought out, logical way of working with all the different legislative instruments, investment instruments and so on, which are necessary to really remove the water stress we have around europe. not only drought, but also flooding of astronomical dimensions. at the same time, we need a blue deal that takes the word "deal" and turns the way we work with water challenges into a business opportunity that makes our exports flourish, that makes our innovation send out all kinds of good solutions that not only make us water smart, but also make an economy that becomes much, much stronger to meet the challenges we face.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, europe can make a difference for workers. we can put the health and safety of those workers who build our wind turbines, assemble our batteries and energy renovate our homes at the forefront. this piece of eu legislation that we will vote on tomorrow will lead to concrete improvements for literally millions of workers out there in the factories, construction sites and even deep down in the mines. it is legislation affecting those working in recycling or furniture production, auto mechanics, construction, industry and metalworkers and many, many more. we are ensuring better and much-needed protection against the dangerous substances – lead and diisocyanates. it means that we, for the first time in 40 years, will update the limit values on lead. we will lower the value to less than a quarter of what it is now. this is progress, and it is important, because not only is lead carcinogenic and reprotoxic, it is also a central part of the growing battery and recycling sector in europe. it is something we know is dangerous, but at the same time we cannot do without it. but by drastically improving the protection against it, we take an important step. we help ensure that the green transition – which we all need – will not sacrifice workers’ health and safety. we also ensure that we will not have to wait another 40 years for the next revision, as we have obliged the commission to review the limit values again in only 5 years’ time, if not before. and it does not stop here: we will also introduce the first-ever european limit value on the harmful diisocyanates, substances we know give permanent airway damage to those who work with it. this means that we help to ensure that the european green transition can be a just transition. dear colleagues, i truly believe that no one should get sick or die from going to work. that is why we in parliament must always try to move europe’s occupational health and safety legislation forward. with this directive, we do take an important first step towards protecting workers against endocrine disruptors and combined exposure at their workplace. this sets the direction for future initiatives. dear colleagues, i want to sincerely thank the shadows: it has been a great pleasure to work with you. thank you for a good cooperation and for helping putting workers’ health first. i also want to thank the commission, the council, and the spanish presidency: you did not give us everything we asked for, but you showed flexibility and agreed that we should move forward to the benefit of millions of hard-working people in europe. lastly, i want to thank the social partners – employers and trade unions alike. your invaluable cooperation and insights helped make this directive a reality. so, dear colleagues, when we vote tomorrow, let us have a large majority and send a clear message to all the workers in europe: your health and safety matters. let us vote for a europe that makes a difference for workers.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank my very good colleagues, cindy, ilan, catherine, sara, elżbieta, thank you so much for your kind words today, but also not least for our very good cooperation. i would also like to thank you, commissioner schmit. it’s been a great pleasure to work with all of you, work with your staff advisors on this important file. and then i would like to say to all of you, to my dear colleagues, with tomorrow’s vote, we are making a difference for workers in europe. we are making sure that millions will be better protected. this is the socially just green transition, not just in words but put into action. when we see that the workers producing our batteries, making our renewable energy, or energy renovating our houses will be better protected. as has been said by me, but also very importantly by other good colleagues today, no one should die or get sick from going to work. that is why it is so important that we today put workers health at the forefront. i would like to thank you once again to all that have contributed. let us all make sure to bring all our colleagues on board before tomorrow’s vote. and finally, allow me to say that by judging on today’s debate and the discussion i have had as the rapporteur with the political groups, i note that there is a broad support in the european parliament for an ambitious european occupational health and safety policy. we stand united in eagerly awaiting the commission’s cmrd 6 directive, and for the long-promised and wasted screening and registration of asbestos in buildings legislative proposal. i hope that the commissioner took note of this as well. and i heard you, commissioner, when you said that you stand ready to continue on the track that we are on today. that is good. let us make sure that this successful result will be the first of many for the workers of europe.
