on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, too often this parliament forgets the roots of our european culture. the roman genius, for example, has left us this wise formula: de mortuis nil nisi bonum, meaning "dead, nothing but good". jacques delors' dreams were not ours. where he saw a liberated economy, we feared markets in danger. what he called the european project was inevitably leading to the eradication of nations. finally, where he considered the fluidity of european travel with a schengen, we warn of the dangers of reducing borders. these antagonisms, however, are just as much a tribute to the man who shaped the european union. the european union in which we live, whether we appreciate it or criticize it, has been shaped in a large way by the one who was the president of the commission for ten years. he was awarded the charlemagne prize and was crowned by his peers who praised him for his hard work on a new project. it is hard to say that the french, regardless of their political orientation, have the world's greatest difficulty in learning the grammar of european institutions. we can all recognize that jacques delors combines language, codes and psychology with a keen sense of admiration. we must not forget that jacques delors, a young collaborator of jacques chaban-delmas, worked on the project of the new company. he defended and it is to his honour that the idea of a social europe was finally achieved. a man's consistency, no matter what his beliefs, deserves respect from those who fought him. jacques delors has left this world and is therefore no longer part of the european arena. he joined the long line of frenchmen who have made a mark on the history of our continent. loyalty to his memory is now a must for all. the former trade unionist certainly urged us to make sure that none of our decisions forgot those who are suffering economically. this will be the best way for his former adversaries, like many of his friends, to honor his memory.
that concludes the item.
first of all, dear colleagues, it is with a deep sense of pride and honour that i inform you that on saturday i was in vilnius to receive on behalf of all meps and the european parliament, the freedom prize from the republic of lithuania. it was a moving and emotional moment and i was glad to be there in your name to witness it. this prize is for all of you and your work in support of peace, democracy, human rights and freedom. it is in recognition of what our parliament does. may it serve to continue to inspire our actions. (applause) dear colleagues, in the spirit of defending freedom, i need to refer again to what is happening in belarus, still controlled by europe’s last dictator. activists, innocent people are still being detained arbitrarily. the number of political prisoners continues to grow. we cannot allow it to fall off the top of our agenda. that is why i have met with sviatlana tsikhanouskaya last week and promised to do what we can to support political prisoners and urge their release. for that reason i have agreed to join their campaign and became a so-called ‘godparent’ of palina sharenda-panasyuk, a mother, an activist, sentenced in 2021 and then in 2022 by lukashenko’s regime to four years in prison on trumped‑up charges. palina has been beaten, placed in a punishment cell, and refused medicines and access to her family or a lawyer. my appeal to all of you who have not yet done so is to join the campaign and consider adding your voice too. dear colleagues, last year, you will recall, the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to jina mahsa amini and the woman, life, freedom movement. however, a few days before they were scheduled to receive their award, the iranian regime placed ms mahsa amini’s family under a travel ban – a stark example of the type of treatment that the people of iran are faced with every day. on 12 december, this house welcomed mr saleh nikbakht, the amini family lawyer, to receive the sakharov prize on their behalf. shortly after his return to iran, mr saleh nikbakht was arrested and the award was confiscated. according to our information, mr saleh nikbakht has been sentenced to a term of imprisonment for allegedly engaging in ‘propaganda against the system’. it is a false charge. it is unacceptable. it is inexcusable, and this house condemns it. i want to recognise that bravery and commitment by mr saleh nikbakht. he spoke eloquently and courageously. on behalf of the european parliament, i call for the immediate and unconditional release of mr saleh nikbakht. i will also take this opportunity to reiterate our unwavering support to mahsa amini’s family and the woman, life, freedom movement in their ceaseless fight for liberty, justice and human rights. you are not alone. dear colleagues, on 21 december 2023 we witnessed a horrific – the worst – mass shooting in czechia when a gunman in prague shot dead 14 people at the charles university and injured many more. it pains us to think of the many families that were forced to mourn their loved ones at a time of peace and togetherness. my thoughts are with them and with the victims of these brutal attacks, who are still recovering. evropa stojí při česku. *** before we move to the approval of the minutes of the previous sitting, is there a point of order?
madam president, the ecological disaster that is happening on the galician coast due to the microplastic pellet spill that fell into the sea from a flag-of-convenience ship needs the help of europe. look at these pictures!
ms miranda, this is not a point of order. we have a debate on this issue on thursday.
but madam president, more than 20 years after the prestige, once again the galician government has been irresponsible, manipulating and lying. don’t leave galiza alone, please.
ms miranda, this is not a point of order. please use this moment to really make points that are ones that add to the value of the debate at this point.
the minutes and the texts adopted of the sitting of 14 december are available. are there any comments? as there are not, the minutes are approved. ms montserrat, do you have a point? can you do it during the debate, ms montserrat, or do you want to do it now? you have 10 seconds!
madam president, mrs miranda, defending the sea and working in front of the pellets that come to the spanish beaches is what the xunta de galicia does. what you're doing here today is political misery to scratch votes and electrify this crisis. this crisis is the responsibility of everyone, starting with the spanish government, which has to collect the sacks of sea pellets. so, on thursday we're going to debate that, because you want to electorize and politicize this crisis that's everybody's business.
mr president, ten years after the adoption of the procurement directive, we know that almost half of all tender procedures in the european union are still exclusively based on price. where sustainability criteria are introduced, their content is limited by the interpretation of free competition and, moreover, since they must be linked to the subject of the contract, general clauses on human rights, workers' or women's rights are excluded. it is easy to boycott the directive from the back door, forgetting that social dumping is also a form of unfair competition. we are talking about an instrument which represents almost 15% of european gdp, so it is time to accept the need for its reform, commissioner, and to recognize that without the imposition of obligations nothing will change and that many other objectives of this social europe which is so much talked about - such as the rate of coverage of collective bargaining - are nothing more than empty slogans if we do not have instruments to make them effective.
mr president, commissioner, in view of the green and digital transitions that the labour market is experiencing, social responsibility must be a key priority to ensure fair and dignified working conditions and to be consistent with the new social economy plan. the public administration cannot be the exception. some political groups argue that efficiency and effectiveness should be the only criteria to consider when awarding public contracts. i am not sure what the commission is going to do with the commission. social conditionality in the award of public contracts ensures the creation of decent employment, respect for labour rights and the inclusion of disadvantaged sectors. the current procurement directive needs to be revised to give greater legal certainty to the social criteria in the award of public contracts. this clause can act as an effective instrument, as already noted, to increase the coverage of collective bargaining in accordance with the european minimum wage directive. does the commission therefore consider revising the current directive? does the social clause of the directive need to be further strengthened to ensure its enforcement? it's true that things have been done, but we need more effective things.
mr president, i would like to stress once again, as many of my colleagues have done, the need to improve the working conditions of those who attend. it is true that important advances have recently been made in the field of labour, which are equivalent to those of the rest of the staff. however, as already noted, there are still certain injustices in their contracts, such as the imminent termination of the membership by way of termination. this results in latent instability and inconsistency in the margin of warning. this institution must set an example by offering equal rights and quality in employment. let us not forget that the assistants are staff employed by this institution and perform key tasks for the proper functioning of this parliamentary gear. we must take responsibility and ensure that they have greater stability in employment and fair and equal conditions.
mr president, mr commissioner, anything that represents a breakthrough in consumer protection is very good news. this directive is great news because it protects consumers from abuse, fraud and manipulation of product quality and quality. it also protects producers who make good commercial production practices a way of relating to consumers. but let us not be deceived: mistakes in the quality and quality of products are a decision. when my mother bought a refrigerator that lasted 20 years, she wasn't buying green, she was buying a refrigerator that someone wanted to produce with quality. and now they don't want to: programmed obsolescence is a decision and deceiving consumers with product qualifications is a decision. so finally, it is fine to try to empower consumers, but we will do what we can do: offer them guarantees and protect them, not only by legislation, which is very important, but by implementing legislation with inspections and sanctions on those who, by abusing and deceiving consumers, make it a business.
mr president, commissioner reynders, this is the first time that instead of congratulating the rapporteur on the report, we should congratulate the alternate rapporteurs, because they are the ones who have managed to turn the report around and this is not a mere attack and an attempt to demonize ngos. ngos play a crucial role in the lives of countless people. they do a vital job for society. many of them work tirelessly to provide humanitarian aid on the front lines of humanitarian crises, assisting the most vulnerable, as is happening right now in gaza. in fact, the european union has tripled funding for humanitarian organisations working in the midst of conflict, because it knows they are essential. of course, as with all funding to organisations, all european funding must be subject to the principles of control, transparency and accountability, as is already the case. but as a society, we must support and value the work that ngos do, reaching where the administrations often do not reach and giving voice to those who often have no voice.
mr president, some in this parliament - the rapporteur and his group - are committed to criminalizing ngos, but the danger is not in them but in the influence of companies with interests contrary to our values. ngos are essential for the democratic functioning of our institutions and even more so for the realisation of european solidarity, for the realisation of development cooperation and humanitarian aid, as, for example, now in gaza or ukraine. they are guarantors of the rights of the most vulnerable and we owe them much of the progress in diversity, gender and migration. the european union could not be understood without its work. they must, of course, follow strict rules of transparency. most people already do it, proportionally to their size. we also support smaller ngos. therefore, increasing bureaucracy will only weaken their actions. if we demand more from them, we must also be willing to assist them in the process. there should be rules for those receiving eu funding, but time for adaptation is needed. let us not silence the critical voices. we must not allow the demands for transparency and the fight against foreign influences to be used as an excuse.
mr president, it is incredible to hear the council representative and the commission representative continue to speak at this time about a military operation against hamas. it's amazing to keep talking at this point that israel is exercising its right to defend itself. who is israel defending itself from right now? after 24,000 civilians killed and 8,000 buried under the rubble, who are you defending yourself from? there has never been a greater moment of divorce between our peoples and those we represent here. our people are denouncing a genocide that we refuse to recognize and condemn. it's amazing to hear how representatives of the german government are fighting south africa's demand for genocide. it is true that the german state has also at other times had difficulty in recognizing genocides, holocausts, however close they were to being committed. but that does not justify that, in the european union as a whole, not a single eu country has joined south africa's demand. i would like to ask the european people to know that there are groups here who are defending genocide, who are complicit in genocide. let's know and put our faces on them and point our fingers at them. we must be with the palestinian cause, which today more than ever is the cause of humanity.
mr president, the ceasefire you are asking this parliament to ask, who are you asking for? hamas, which continues to call on arab countries to join the coalition and continues to receive arms, in this case from iran? or israel, which is defending itself against a terrorist organization that killed and raped civilians? no one can avoid the humanitarian crisis in gaza and we must work to ease it. but the ceasefire, which hamas continues to deny, will not come until all the hostages are released. if europe really wants to have a say in this crisis, we must have a much broader picture of the conflict. it is no coincidence that hamas attacks israel, that hezbollah launches rockets from lebanon, or that the houthis attack merchant ships in the red sea. and if you want to call it a coincidence, call it iran. iran - which i have defended on numerous occasions in this house - is the key player in this matter. it has only two objectives: the disappearance of the jewish people and preventing peace and stability in the region. we had the opportunity to support the process of normalizing relations between israel and the jews, but we lacked determination and now there is doubt as to whether or not we should join the united states and the united kingdom, precisely to give them stability in the red sea. it is time to act and the speeches will be empty if we do not take effective action.
on behalf of the left group. the european union has failed to take a proper note of its obligations to india. modi's authoritarian and supremacist drift is a danger not only to religious minorities, migrants, women or lgbt people in the country. failure to act to curb hate speech and denial of rights turns against everyone over time. the netanyahu government is a good example of this. determined action is needed to combat all forms of supremacy. we need strategic autonomy and equal-to-equal relations for the mutual benefit of our peoples, with human rights, peace, disarmament, climate justice and multilateralism at the centre. no no strategic relationship can be built at the expense of ignoring the violation of the rights of millions of people, neither in india nor anywhere else.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president hautala, commissioner schmit, i would like to congratulate first of all željana zovko on her leadership and the alternative speakers on their flexibility, and to link this dossier to another one which is voted on tomorrow without debate, namely the one on parliamentary diplomacy by jordi solé and which has just been mentioned by lukas mandl. i think that together they complete a political reflection which we have carried out throughout the legislature and which has a certain value, in which we have dealt with many issues: cultural diplomacy, intelligence, sanctions, the diplomatic school, an initiative coming out of this parliament, which are a good package of reflection. in the mediterranean we often say that fires are extinguished in winter. that is the spirit of preventive diplomacy, a diplomacy more necessary than ever in this damned, reactive international scene to which the commissioner referred. the report is very complete, it is impossible to review it, but i want to emphasize a point of view which is the need for the cultural adaptation of our diplomacy to the different scenarios in which it has to act.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the european union must be an independent actor. and it can only be if it is governed by international law, becomes an actor of peace and abandons the selective war-driven approach. today, for the european union, some deaths are worth more than others. and this selection is not accidental: it follows the hypocrisy of the union in addressing conflicts in its own neighbourhood, the economic interests of a few or the dictates of the united states and nato. the solution to a war is not to increase the military budget or finance the arms industry of colonial and genocidal governments, as in the case of israel; nor is it to let people fleeing violence die in the mediterranean or to sign trade agreements with occupying and human rights-violent powers, as in the case of morocco. we must resolutely address latent conflicts and stop supporting authoritarian and criminal governments. diplomacy and climate and social justice are the best tools for an autonomous human rights-based foreign policy for all peoples and everywhere.
the role of the ombudsman is crucial to guarantee the rights of european citizens, especially in all matters relating to the consolidation of good administrative practice. it must also ensure ethics and transparency in the governance of institutions. in this report, the speakers and also mrs o'reilly detailed the main complaints and investigations carried out by the ombudsman in 2022 and which relate to deficiencies or anomalies that can break trust in institutions, undue delays or obstacles to public access to documents by the european commission, lack of transparency in the interactions with lobbies or the phenomenon of revolving doors in the european commission and the european central bank, as well as issues directly related to the defence of human rights. these and other failures can tarnish the reputation of the european administration and even lead to dislike among citizens towards the european project. and we can't afford that. i would therefore like to simplify and highlight the brilliant work that you have done this year, congratulate you on your work and encourage you to continue to stand up for the rights of european citizens in a totally independent and determined way. congratulations to the speakers.
mr president, i thank vice-president šefčovič for his presence and of course the rapporteurs of these important reports: paulo rangel and maite pagazaurtundúa. these reports deal with two issues of great importance to all of us. on the one hand, the relationship with national parliaments. we are also members of parliament, there have always been attempts to oppose national parliaments to the european parliament, and this report shows that this is not the case. on the contrary, what we are promoting is an alliance between national parliaments and the european parliament, because that is in the common interest: to promote the participation of national parliaments in european construction. the idea of extending the deadline to 12 weeks so that they can more effectively carry out this control of subsidiarity, and also, on the other hand, by the other report, a very good proposal which we also support, mr pascal durand, socialist rapporteur, to build, dear mrs pagazaurtundúa, this statute of european citizenship, to bring together all the rights of the charter and the treaty into one instrument. i think that these two ideas should be taken seriously, including by the belgian presidency, which i also encourage to promote that the european council may debate the proposal for the reform of the european parliament's treaties before the european elections.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate clearly shows the two different conceptions of europe that will be in conflict in the next european elections: on the one hand, there are those who strongly condemn, as we and the vast majority of our colleagues are doing, the fascist greetings in italy, yes, but also the dangerous ideas about the deportation of citizens that are spreading in germany. on the other side is a right that minimizes or is silent. yes, it's been nine days since the commemoration of acca larentia and we still don't know what you think of those fascist greetings the president of the italian council: she used to tweet about everything, but now she doesn't have time to distance herself from these fanatics. the same giorgia meloni, who in 2008 as minister of the berlusconi government, participated in that same commemoration and, although she did not give the roman salute, marched before celtic crosses accompanied by figures from the neo-fascist world. and then we remember it, especially to the new generations: fascism brings war, it brings hatred, it brings discrimination, it brings social exclusion. and is this the future we want for our european union? i hope not, because to be european you must also be, and above all, anti-fascist!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 30 may a socialist member denounced the fascist violence in which the political elections were held. on 10 june the same socialist deputy will be kidnapped and killed by a fascist squadron on mussolini's orders. on august 16 his body will be found crushed, dead in the roman countryside. it was 1924, and his name was giacomo matteotti. and i would like this house not to forget this name and not to forget, colleagues, these dates: this year will be 100 years since this terrible murder, which took the life of a man, but failed to kill his ideas, which are the same ones that allow us to stand here today and that require us to say "never again". never more gathered like those of acca larentia; never again squadron in black; i never greeted you again. i would like to say to mr procaccini: when there is fascism manifesting, there is always fascism of substance. and we will not allow freedom and democracy to be trampled on again. long live the anti-fascist europe!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the images we have seen in italy these days have brought back to mind sad memories of the last century; sad as the silence of giorgia meloni about it. as in other countries, there has always been a small minority of nostalgic fascists in italy. unlike other opposition political forces, in italy we have never used the return to fascism alarm to counter the prime minister. we are concerned about the inability to govern, as reflected in the latest budgetary law and irresponsible choices like the one on the esm. yet, in the face of the facts of acca larentia we would have expected a word from the head of government, from some representative of his party or his family which often coincide. we heard only deafening silence and blunt justification. it is clear, my friends: the thread that links giorgia meloni and the fratelli d'italia to the neo-fascist world has not yet been cut and the tricolour flame in its electoral symbol is the proof of that. this is a problem for italy, for europe and for those who think they can build majorities with these political forces in this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the threats to public security in italy today come mainly from the far left and from islamic radicalism. there is no risk of a return of fascism. democracy is safe and firmly defended by george meloni, who has repeatedly expressed his strong condemnation of totalitarian ideology and nostalgia. franco bigonzetti, francesco ciavatta and stefano recchioni, killed on 7 january 1978 in front of a section of the italian social movement in rome, is the story of many other boys killed having the only fault of doing right-wing politics in those terrible years. the action was claimed by a communist armed group but the culprits were never found, as were the killers of miki mantakas, mario zicchieri, francesco cecchin, paolo di nella. victims of injustice in a season of hatred in which young people on the left lost their lives, as well as their victims and their collaborators, forgotten by those who prefer to use memory as a political key. yeah, because, whatever you think, there's an undeniable truth: the commemoration of a few minutes in which our party does not participate, has been held in the same way every year for decades, with governments of all colours. last year, too, with the meloni government already in office, but the elections had just been held and the next ones were still too far away. today, however, elections are approaching and a left-wing left, desperate and unarguable, finds no better way than to shout out to the evergreen "black danger". i'll make a prediction for you, my fellow workers: this time it won't work.
the rules do not allow us to show banners, so next time please close your jacket when you are wearing a t-shirt with a slogan. thank you.
mr president, the fact that we are discussing the resurgence of fascism in the european parliament in the face of a manifestation of this sign, no less than in rome on 7 january, is saddening but above all worrying. because fascism is not an ideology; it is above all a violent, totalitarian action, which transitions from hate speech to hate crime. and that is exactly why it is a permanent threat to european values that we are obliged to defend. the italian constitution, in its tenth provision, prohibits the reconstitution of the fascist party, as does article 21 of the german constitution. and there's a case law of the constitutional court that dissolved a nazi party in the 1950s. is that enough? obviously not, because that threat will grow as long as there are political forces that we consider conventional that trivialize or normalize the roman salute or the goose's foot. so when we defend european citizenship, we are obliged to draw the lessons of history that are final and that will make the next european campaign of june 2024 an opportunity for all european forces to say loud and clear that the lesson of history is never again, never again, never again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that a head of government has responsibilities and duties quite different from a political head. this is what many, even tonight, starting with giorgia meloni, seem to be missing, even in the case of the fascist greetings of acca larentia. we all agree in condemning the violence of the 1970s against young boys, both on the far left and the far right; and we don't care what meloni said or did as the leader of the brothers of italy ten, five, two years ago. we are very concerned and concerned that the president of the council of a major european country like italy, the founder of the european union, the president-in-office of the g7 in 2024, cannot find the words to interpret the sentiments of the wider public of her elected representatives and to defend the fundamental values on which our union is based. you see, my dear colleague procaccini, there is also a limit to opportunism and this time it has been largely overcome. we will always fight against the far right and this complicit and dangerous silence.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you have said this before me: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. a crime which must be combated primarily by the dissolution of neo-fascist groups, as our constitution requires. we still have before us the many arms stretched out last january 7 in acca larentia; the celebration of the victims of the political hatred that bled in the 1970s can never slip into the apology of a regime that must not be considered eternally defeated. in fact, its ideal germs are still trying to stick together. the commission has not yet taken any action to resolve the problem. the democratic process that emerged from the struggle against fascism must also be seen not as a given but as a conquest to be defended every day throughout europe. the europe that has seen the light, precisely in response to nazi-fascist totalitarianism. we must continue to live the values of the resistance and we must remember that we have a political and moral duty to defend our democracy every day for those who fought and lost their lives before us and for those who will come after us.
- your honor, the president. in my country, hungary, any kind of totalitarian symbol or act, be it extreme left or extreme right, is prohibited. using these is a crime. and that's the right thing to do. i'm speaking out in the debate to protest the attempted political gain of the left. my fellow representatives. what's going on here? why should we allow the european parliament to be a place of hatred and double standards instead of focusing on legislation in the interests of european citizens? the left-liberal side, with the zeal of the people's party, is attacking conservative governments, while the left-wing governments' overreaches are being called a fraud. for example, hungary is partially accessed to the resources it deserves because it is fulfilling the commission's expectations. and so a voter, an elected mep from the people's party, who has a duty to be impartial, is denouncing my country and fighting to deprive us of our right to vote. meanwhile, there are illegal purges in poland, and brussels is silent. in one italian country, a 46-year-old event suddenly comes to the fore because of a conservative government. at the same time, in spain, the judiciary is subordinate to parliament. and according to the socialist government's spokesman, when we discuss national issues in this house, it's undermining our values. what is this, if not double standards? i hope that in june the citizens will set this parliament on a new path.
mr president, the resurgence of fascism in europe is not a ghost invented by the left to sow fear against the right. it's, yes, a scary reality, that you just don't see who you don't want to see. the shameful halt in rome is just another sign of this dangerous political movement, which has been developing, dressed in sheep's skin, hidden in the far right, under multiple disguises and loud nationalist, illiberal and xenophobic proclamations, always made in the name of the people against their alleged enemies. this even made him look like a man who had just been to rome, where he revealed his true face. this europe has suffered too much from the tragedy of fascism to forget its own history and not react with absolute firmness. and to react means, first of all, denouncing fascism and treating it by its name. it means then giving it a fight on the ground of ideas, on the ground of political struggle and remembering the lessons of history. and it means, finally, refusing to give it more strength, with alliances like those that the centre-right and the liberals are doing with the far-right outside of europe. we need to report him before it's too late.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. expulsions, deportations, ethnic cleansing, these are the fascists' secret plans. in rome neo-fascists march, in potsdam neo-nazis meet with representatives of the afd in the values union, that is, parties sitting in this house. they're planning to expel people from germany. plans against fellow citizens who are not native germans. plans against germans whose ancestors come from other countries. millions and millions of our friends, neighbors and colleagues. that sounds monstrous, and it's monstrous. because it's not to be what churchill once said: "if it rings at my door at six in the morning and i can be sure it's the milkman, then i know i'm living in a democracy". without this basic security of body and life there can be no free society. the fascists no longer hide their intentions in rome or potsdam. but people are getting up. tens of thousands took to the streets in germany over the weekend. we, the social democrats, stand with them. no footing for the fascists!
mr president, in the 1930s we came late to fight fascism and we know the consequences, although some shamefully deny them. that's why we can't waste time. our democracies, our freedoms and the values that underpin the european project are at stake. women know this very well, because advances in equality, feminist policies, have been the first goal against which radical or neo-fascist rights have organized internationally to control our bodies, our lives. and i wonder, will the right continue to build the europe we dreamed of to defeat fascism after world war ii? or will it, as the people's party in my country does, make a pact with the neo-fascists? we need to know where we are. what i'm going to say now is going to be a little difficult for translation: we have to do what the chirigotas of cádiz in andalusia, the cradle of freedom and democracy in spain, do, asking for fewer monasteries and more maria jiménez. it's all over now. never again to fascism, never again to whitewash fascism.
the president of the republic of moldova, mr. president, is right and is right to go to the council of ministers of the republic of moldova, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president, mr. president must muid níos mó a dhéanamh ná is the cháineadh, especially must muid níos mó a dhéanamh chun meas the chothú air chuile duine, is cuma cé hiad no here the a dtagann siad agus b b'fhéidir gur cheart dúinn dí díriú níos mó air at the escuelaanna chun is without a dhéanamh. freisin, must must we ask the chur ar cheart go bhfuil sé fearáilte go mbeadh daoine anaithnide in ann on social media the use chun bréagnuacht agus antoisceachas the chur chun cinn, take care of the chun chun chun chun chun with your water. we must direct air without chomh maith agus perhaps we shall end the chur laws.
mr president, you are a man, a father, a grandfather. i'm a fascist. days after the horrific fascist demonstration in italy, it was in these terms that a member of the portuguese far right defined himself at his party congress. what i am here to ask you today is an eye-to-eye question with the far right and with the european citizens who are listening to us: why so much hatred? it's that this hatred they spread is only to divide us, to weaken us. this hatred, so corrosive, destroys us and sometimes even kills us. but we are not doomed to that hatred. we want a europe of hope, of solidarity, of respect for what makes each of us unique; a europe of dreams, where when we raise our arms we are to help and embrace others, not to diminish them. the european spring is ahead of us. that's what jacques delors used to tell us. let 's not forget: the most beautiful thing about the present is that it allows us to write the future. and tomorrow's europe can be what we want it to be, not the europe that those who want to destroy it want to impose on us.
mr president, the influence of reactionary and anti-democratic concepts and projects and the forces that embody them is linked to the promotion particularly through the media of these demagogic, retrograde, liberal and fascinating concepts and agendas by the economic power whose interests these forces and projects serve. the right-wing forces, where the major economic and financial interests seek to channel the discontent resulting from right-wing politics, in order to ensure their continuation and aggravation. falsely presented as anti-system, these forces actually represent what the system has the worst. those who seek to rewrite and falsify history, whitewashing what was nazi fascism and its heinous crimes, and slandering, criminalizing those who heroically fought and defeated it, are responsible for the rise of these anti-democratic conceptions and forces. the fight against the far right can only be achieved by breaking with right-wing politics in each country and in the european union and by implementing a truly alternative policy that guarantees the rights of workers and peoples and responds to their legitimate aspirations. (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, we are discussing the resurgence of neo—fascism in europe today, but it is not the first time it was discussed in this chamber. our parliament was elected in 2019, but there was a resolution in october 2018 on the rise of neo—fascist violence in europe, mentioning norway, italy, london, different countries, also my country latvia. it was mentioned that every year on 16 march, thousands of people gather in riga for latvian legion day to honour latvians who served in the waffen—ss. so there was a big exhaustive resolution, and what happened? nothing. in my capital, riga, latvian legion day is celebrated up to now. moreover, the film ‘heroizing legionnaires’ mentions in a positive sense friedrich jeckeln, who was commander here in latvia and an executor... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i want to thank you for this important debate. it’s encouraging to hear the large number of interventions condemning neo-fascism. we are many that see the risks – the risks to our democratic system, to our daily stability. our challenge is to convert our determination into coordinated actions, particularly in the context of the upcoming european elections. commission initiatives have already added to the fight back and with the support of this house, we will continue to develop those instruments that protect our democracy – because when it comes to fighting neo-fascism, it’s essential that we act quickly and decisively. and it’s essential that we act together – because democracies die when democrats fail to act.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. – the images of the parade in rome, in which participants gave fascist salutes, conjured up memories of a dark past. we are witnessing an alarming resurgence of extreme-right parties and organisations espousing neo-fascist ideas, both in the streets and in the ballots, threatening our democracies. as a continent ravaged by fascist ideologies, and subsequently united by the ideas and values of human rights and dignity, solidarity and equality, we should know better. and yet, fascism has not lost its attraction. in these uncertain times of massive change and upheaval, neo-fascists are alluring people with simple solutions and hollow promises. we must resolutely fight these ideas, morally and politically. we must denounce their moral bankruptcy. they are the antithesis to everything the eu stands for! member states should ban neo-fascist and neo-nazi groups, and systematically prosecute far-right violence. and we must address the problems that drive people to embrace these neo-fascist ideas. we must fight poverty and inequalities by reinforcing the social union, and ensure that the climate and digital transitions are socially just. we also need to strengthen our union of equality. neo-fascists do not have real solutions. we must demonstrate that we do.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission declarations on the state of emergency in ecuador (2024/2511(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, today i do not want to just express our deep concern about the situation in ecuador, but, above all, to express our solidarity with the people of ecuador and our firm condemnation of the violence and criminal attacks carried out by armed groups in ecuador. on 10 january 2024, gangs rioted in prisons, attacked security forces and invaded a live tv news broadcast. violence was concentrated in guayaquil, one of the major latin american ports in the pacific and an important export hub for drugs, where at least eight people were killed, as gunmen looted businesses and entered public buildings, including five hospitals. coordinated uprisings took place in several penitentiaries, resulting in 141 members of prison staff being held hostage and in a mass outbreak of prisoners. as the country plunged into violence, president daniel noboa, declared a state of internal armed conflict. this allows him to widely mobilise the armed forces in the fight against organised crime. he designated 22 criminal groups as terrorist organisations, and instructed the armed forces and police to fight them. the national assembly approved the decree by unanimity in a display of unity and support to the government. on 8 january 2024, president noboa had already declared a state of emergency after one of ecuador’s most wanted criminals escaped from prison. josé adolfo macías villamar, also known by the alias ‘fito’, the founder and convicted leader of the ‘los choneros’ gang, vanished from his cell in guayaquil on 7 january 2024 just before being transferred to a maximum security facility. since then, 329 people have been arrested. ecuador has witnessed states of emergency before due to the growing influence of gangs involved in drug trafficking, prison control, institutional corruption and the expansion into new criminal enterprises. however, president noboa’s declaration of armed conflict with gangs is unprecedented in the country’s history. the eu supports ecuador and its government and democratic institutions in their efforts to restore public order, defend the rule of law, protect human rights and guarantee citizens’ security. organised crime poses a direct threat to the resilience of public institutions and to democracy, prosperity and social cohesion of ecuador. it must not be allowed to prevail. the eu categorically condemns this wave of violence. we reiterate our solidarity with ecuador, its government and its people, and express solidarity with the victims. we will work with ecuador to strengthen our cooperation, financial assistance and collaboration with european law enforcement and investigation agencies to reinforce ecuador’s ability to fight against transnational organised crime. the fight is not just a national issue, it is an international challenge that impacts directly on the eu and our societies and requires coordinated efforts on a global scale, from the countries of origin to those of transit and final destination of drugs and illegal benefits, including tax havens. the transnational nature of these crimes and these criminal networks demands that we all, including us in europe, pool resources, intelligence and expertise to fight and eradicate them. drug trafficking and organised crime linked to it are a threat to all societies, their prosperity, security and democracy. europe needs to reinforce its cooperation with partners in the fight against drug trafficking in ecuador and elsewhere. ecuador may seem very far away from europe, but in today’s interconnected world, we need to pool efforts and resources to defend our societies and democracies against organised crime. honourable members, the eu started to strengthen its cooperation with ecuador in security matters, including the fight against transnational organised crime, years ago. this includes both policy dialogue and concrete cooperation assistance. in 2023, the eu signed a memorandum of understanding with ecuador that will allow us to deepen cooperation on various policy areas, including on security. last autumn, europol signed a working agreement with the ministry of the interior of ecuador, which will strengthen real—time cooperation. in february 2023, commissioner johansson visited ecuador with the belgian minister of the interior, annelies verlinden. they met with the president and several ministers, foreign affairs, interior and defence, and they visited the port of contecon in guayaquil. the visit reaffirmed the eu’s commitment to support the security sector in ecuador through our regional programmes el paccto, copolad eurofront and seacop. specific cooperation activities, including emergency support for prison security and assistance for port security in guayaquil, were initiated in 2023. these are just recent examples. in addition, the negotiations of the eu agreement with ecuador on the exchange of data with europol, which will bring operational cooperation to the next level, are ongoing. however, we must do more, and that is why we plan to mobilise new funds for 2024 to build up state and community resilience in some of the most affected areas of the country. i will stop here. i am looking forward to your remarks.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, the succession of violent actions and the destabilization that ecuador has been experiencing in recent days deserve the most vigorous condemnation. the insecurity in ecuador has escalated to historic levels. intentional homicides have multiplied five times since 2021 and increased to 43 per 100,000 inhabitants in 2023. this data is also very, very worrying. the fight against organised crime requires the maximum cooperation of the security forces and bodies. this situation has led president novoa to declare a state of emergency in order to restore peace and security. we in the european parliament are closely following developments in the country, because it is also a key partner of the union in the andean region. violence destroys peace and security, and without peace and security there can be no rule of law and without a rule of law there can be no democracy. this is precisely what is at stake. on the other hand, stability in ecuador is essential to ensure stability in the region. therefore, we must strengthen and deepen our bilateral relations by placing special emphasis on political and economic relations within the framework of the trade agreement with peru and colombia, to which ecuador, as you know, joined in 2017. security cooperation must remain a priority. finally, i would like to reiterate our support for the democratic institutions represented in their legitimate constitutional bodies: their president daniel noboa and the government of the nation.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, the transnational criminal organizations that have established a new black spot in the world drug trade in ecuador have made this state the most violent in the region. the recent global crises have exacerbated the social collapse of the country. an ideal breeding ground for these cartels to be attractive and recruit for crime those with less opportunity. meanwhile, its leaders try to corrupt institutions by pressuring its members with intolerable levels of coercion and violence. that is why we must support the ecuadorian government at this time. nevertheless, drug-related crime is on the rise worldwide. it is therefore urgent to incorporate a thorough reflection into the global agenda, with risky, innovative and democratic proposals in the face of this threat. a new model that must rule out any liberticidal temptation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to express our solidarity with the ecuadorian people, who certainly deserve to live in peace and security. i also condemn the serious acts of violence perpetrated by organized crime. the images we've seen these days are both creepy and unacceptable. without a minimum of security, there is no freedom or prosperity. we therefore support the government in its efforts to protect citizens and restore public order, always ensuring respect for the rule of law and the protection of human rights. and this excludes any excessive use of lethal force. i also want to say that the situation in ecuador's prisons is worrying. the control of prisons should be in the hands of the public authorities and not of organized crime. in this regard, prison policies must be put in place, including the fight against corruption as a central focus.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the situation of total destabilization in ecuador has reached insufficient limits and the new president, daniel noboa, is doing what he has to do: use all the resources of the state to defeat the policy of terror and territorial control of the alliance of organized crime and the subversive forces of narco-communism. because behind all this use of chaos and terror there is a project, there is always a political project, and we have to remember how drug criminal groups were used in venezuela and other countries like bolivia to intimidate society, with the same result. we've seen it in colombia, too. ecuador is one of the few countries that has so far, after the years of correa, been free of this plague of narco-socialism. the moment is now that of noboa's reaction to achieve stability, state security and that we do not fall again into that correism that was what fed for many years that alliance of organized crime with its totalitarian project.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, we all know that the problem of violence and drug trafficking is not new in ecuador. ecuadorian elites have been getting rich for a long time with a mafia economy. now noboa has declared war on drugs, a reference to war whose disastrous consequences on the continent we all know. if not, tell your neighbor colombia. he wants to use this crisis to infuse fear with a kind of shock doctrine to legitimize a punitive state like bukele's, while his government releases large-scale mining in faith of tax favors to the rich and pushes free trade agreements. neoliberalism reduces the state to the benefit of the rich, but it increases the repressive apparatus against the impoverished and racially-racialised classes, which are the ones who fill ecuador's prisons. we must reject the rhetoric of war. we must not allow this crisis to be used as a repressive excuse against the popular classes and social organizations. it is urgent to put in place alternative models to punitive populism, with social and community security.
mr president, commissioner, the events of the last few days in ecuador are extremely worrying and i would like to express my solidarity with the ecuadorians and my firm support for the government in tackling drug trafficking and organised crime with determination and always respecting the rule of law. the criminals, feeling unpunished, have achieved extremely dangerous power shares, as shown by the extent of their attacks on the state and society of ecuador and on those politicians who have refused to follow them. ecuador is a priority partner in the region with whom we enjoy a profitable trade and share values. we can and must help. and i am not just talking about economic support, but also political support. we can help with police training programs in prisons for workers in the port of guayaquil, the engine of the global cocaine trade. police cooperation is also required. we've always boasted of seeking the best relations with latin america. well, now is the time to back up our words with facts. we have the opportunity to act as the global actor we claim to be. we can and must go beyond mere words and not miss the opportunity. today more than ever, the people of ecuador need our support. let's not let him down.
mr president, first of all, we express our solidarity with the ecuadorian people and especially with ecuadorian women who are suffering from the unprecedented violence in ecuador, which is linked to the major problems of drug trafficking and transnational crime, and which must be combated in an international manner. we know that the drugs that are grown and passed through ecuador end up in european ports and cities. it's time to be with ecuador, yes, strengthening institutions. the answer cannot be just hard-handed or state of emergency as it is put forward, but reinforcement of public policies, implementation of police reform, innovation in criminal justice and policies of social inclusion. we can, without interference, without paternalism, through international cooperation, bring european expertise from the european institutions. we have the right tool: the technical cooperation programme, the pacto, and copolad (to improve the coherence, balance and impact of drug policies) in the field of safety and justice. we invested nineteen million euros over five years, implemented by agencies with a lot of experience, such as expertise france and the spanish cooperation fund. so we have and we know how to do it. i believe that ecuador is already in the line of signing a new cooperation agreement on europol matters and will chair the latin american security committee this year and next. now more than ever, let us help create strong institutions in latin america and continue to help ecuador along this path.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to address my first words to our brotherly people in ecuador, to whom i express my deepest solidarity and regret the human losses caused by the gang attacks of the last few days. i also want to express my full support to president noboa, who must begin his term of office to face a crisis of political and social security in the country. the challenge posed by president noboa is not simple: he must carry out reforms that will attack the corrupt foundations, which have been built up over ten years of correct regime, and which have resulted in the loss of control of institutions by the state. the former president boasts of having controlled crime during his term, but at what cost? the cost of having members of his governments linked to the farc guerrillas, the cost of legalizing criminal gangs he calls boy scouts or the cost of hosting the criminal businesses of drug traffickers and mafias that they have been doing and undoing at will for years? the situation in ecuador can become critical if we do not act firmly on the government and, above all, if we do not support it directly. i therefore call on the ecuadorian political forces to show unity in the fight against street terrorism and above all i call on the member states to respond to the call of ecuador because the state must always prevail.
mr president, commissioner, the security crisis that has broken out in ecuador has sown terror among the civilian population and threatened its democratic stability. corruption in institutions is the main ally of organized crime, which needs impunity to consolidate itself, a methodology used by members of the são paulo forum and the puebla group and implemented in that country by rafael correa. they are pioneers of practices that establish gangs organized in prison centers, which they use as barracks for their criminal business. it is necessary to ensure that ecuadorian citizens have their prisons as a system to reform people who have been involved in illicit activities and transform them into useful citizens, not that prisons are schools for crime. the european institutions must therefore continue to cooperate with ecuador as a key partner in the region in the field of security, and with its president daniel noboa in the fight against organised crime and international drug trafficking.
mr president, colleagues, i’ve already made my remarks about the absence of president von der leyen, which i consider to be unacceptable. but in her speech, she defiantly claimed that orbán had delivered on the rule of law conditions. now she knows that’s not true. she’s not fooling anybody, not even herself. but she did set a precedent, because prime minister fico of slovakia is already rubbing his hands, like many others, who are actually quite happy that mr orbán is making so much noise and attracting all the attention, so that they can continue their transgressions on the rule of law behind his back. the decision of the commission is further undermining the rule of law, but also the democratic institutions of the european union. the problem here is not one man or one country. the problem is that the european commission no longer acts as the guardian of the treaties, but as the lapdog of the member states, and this house unfortunately indulges her. ms von der leyen broke the law by ignoring the conditionality rules. but even more seriously, she violated the treaties, because the timing of the decision, on the eve of the summit, proves beyond any doubt that it was meant to serve the european council. that, colleagues, is contrary to the requirement of independence of the european commission. now, this house will take the european commission to court, and that’s fine. but we also have to do our duty of political accountability. accepting the absence of president von der leyen during such a debate is a huge mistake. so, i would call on the presidency of this house to contact ms von der leyen and insist that she’s always here for the full debate.
mr president, i want to speak to you. first of all, i would say to the german greens that they should not be so proud of this chechen government they have set up in poland. without the massive help of germany and this commission, this result would never have been achieved. secondly, the whole of germany was paralyzed, the government in germany was broken, the farmers were revolting all over europe. everyone is getting poorer, systematically poorer. the energy crisis is total. but here, all you have to do is look at orbán. orbán is the one helping russia no, the germans have helped russia a lot with their refusal to supply the necessary weapons. there's a lot more help for putin than anywhere else. and hungary has ... hungría se ha puesto en el camino correcto. the hungría se ha puesto en el camino correcto is a road to the right. and, however, they still punish. in spain there is a coup d'etat. in spain there is now an amnesty for terrorists, for the gulfists and the terrorists, and the government... and the european commission is mandating tens of thousands of millions to spain... (the president withdraws the word al orador).
the next speaker is harald vilimsky.
i'm going to tell you something. we've seen mrs. aubry speak for two and a half minutes. what about me? he won't let me pass for ten seconds.
mr president, we are debating today what to do at the next european council with a president whose government threatens the rule of law, abolishes equality before the law, attacks the judiciary, violates the division of powers, colonizes public institutions, decriminalizes corruption and amends the criminal code to suppress crimes committed by his partners. he's a president who pardons politicians convicted of serious crimes and now wants to amnestie corrupt terrorists and want to avoid judicial investigations. it also wants to avoid the primacy of european law, because its partners demand it. we are not talking about viktor orbán here, but about pedro sánchez. i ask you, at the next european council, to defend this europe of the rule of law, to defend its values and the foundations of the union against a president who hides behind a very beautiful facade, agreeing with partners to repeal the principle of equality before the law, which is the core of the european union.
mr president, vice-president šefčovič, minister lahbib on behalf of the belgian presidency, i would like to say to you, as mr juan fernando lópez aguilar has already said, that coming to the house after hungary has spent five years in the article 7 procedure to propose that you go to another meeting or another appearance, i apologize for saying that, is a joke. it's a joke, i'm telling you. after five years, you, as the president-in-office of the general affairs council, must convene the council to vote on the first paragraph of article 7 by a four-fifths majority. it's not hard. you have the power to do it. i call on you to be the president, you have the power to do so and you go to the vote because after five years it is clear that there is a risk to the rule of law in hungary. finally, please help us to put the treaty reform on the agenda of the european council.
in writing. as social democrats, we believe in the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth based on the principles of social justice and environmental sustainability, while strengthening the sustainability of public debt. the revision of current tax rules is essential to achieve these objectives. the final commitment agreed by the european parliament has a strong progressive signature that guarantees fairer eu tax rules that will protect european citizens and businesses from austerity by boosting investment and social rights. this agreement is far better than the proposal from the european commission and the agreement reached by the eu member states. it's also much better than going back to the old rules or having no rules. this debate was very important in order to clearly support the agreement reached in the european parliament and to give the council and the commission a clear indication of parliament's objectives and priorities for the tripartite dialogue negotiations.
in writing. as social democrats, we believe in the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth based on the principles of social justice and environmental sustainability, while strengthening the sustainability of public debt. the revision of current tax rules is essential to achieve these objectives. the final commitment agreed by the european parliament has a strong progressive signature that guarantees fairer eu tax rules that will protect european citizens and businesses from austerity by boosting investment and social rights. this agreement is far better than the proposal from the european commission and the agreement reached by the eu member states. it's also much better than going back to the old rules or having no rules. this debate was very important in order to clearly support the agreement reached in the european parliament and to give the council and the commission a clear indication of parliament's objectives and priorities for the tripartite dialogue negotiations.
in writing. as social democrats, we believe in the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth based on the principles of social justice and environmental sustainability, while strengthening the sustainability of public debt. the revision of current tax rules is essential to achieve these objectives. the final commitment agreed by the european parliament has a strong progressive signature that guarantees fairer eu tax rules that will protect european citizens and businesses from austerity by boosting investment and social rights. this agreement is far better than the proposal from the european commission and the agreement reached by the eu member states. it's also much better than going back to the old rules or having no rules. this debate was very important in order to clearly support the agreement reached in the european parliament and to give the council and the commission a clear indication of parliament's objectives and priorities for the tripartite dialogue negotiations.
in writing. as social democrats, we believe in the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth based on the principles of social justice and environmental sustainability, while strengthening the sustainability of public debt. the revision of current tax rules is essential to achieve these objectives. the final commitment agreed by the european parliament has a strong progressive signature that guarantees fairer eu tax rules that will protect european citizens and businesses from austerity by boosting investment and social rights. this agreement is far better than the proposal from the european commission and the agreement reached by the eu member states. it's also much better than going back to the old rules or having no rules. this debate was very important in order to clearly support the agreement reached in the european parliament and to give the council and the commission a clear indication of parliament's objectives and priorities for the tripartite dialogue negotiations.
in writing. as social democrats, we believe in the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth based on the principles of social justice and environmental sustainability, while strengthening the sustainability of public debt. the revision of current tax rules is essential to achieve these objectives. the final commitment agreed by the european parliament has a strong progressive signature that guarantees fairer eu tax rules that will protect european citizens and businesses from austerity by boosting investment and social rights. this agreement is far better than the proposal from the european commission and the agreement reached by the eu member states. it's also much better than going back to the old rules or having no rules. this debate was very important in order to clearly support the agreement reached in the european parliament and to give the council and the commission a clear indication of parliament's objectives and priorities for the tripartite dialogue negotiations.
in writing. as social democrats, we believe in the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth based on the principles of social justice and environmental sustainability, while strengthening the sustainability of public debt. the revision of current tax rules is essential to achieve these objectives. the final commitment agreed by the european parliament has a strong progressive signature that guarantees fairer eu tax rules that will protect european citizens and businesses from austerity by boosting investment and social rights. this agreement is far better than the proposal from the european commission and the agreement reached by the eu member states. it's also much better than going back to the old rules or having no rules. this debate was very important in order to clearly support the agreement reached in the european parliament and to give the council and the commission a clear indication of parliament's objectives and priorities for the tripartite dialogue negotiations.
the rapporteur. mr president, music is a fundamental pillar of our cultural heritage, it is an expression of our diversity, also of linguistic diversity. and, in a way, it's also the repository of a great cultural heritage that is gradually being incorporated into musical pieces, which today are the most modern pieces. it is also a sector that has been digitised in an accelerated manner, probably the most digitised in the cultural world. and, through that digitization, music is consumed in many different ways today. there is also music with innovations every day and, moreover, more and more music is being heard. never had so many pieces been heard or so many pieces available. it is estimated that up to 100,000 new pieces of music are added to the global market each year. similarly, the economic value of music is also estimated to be immense. it is a global market of between 25 000 and 45 000 million euros or dollars a year. but it is also a sector where huge imbalances have occurred. firstly, because, although, as i say, the value of music is increasing, what reaches authors, what reaches musicians and artists, is decreasing; besides serving as a vehicle for cultural diversity, it is true that a trend towards uniformity is, in some ways, also creating many inequalities and imbalances. and in this respect, this report, which is also widely supported by the culture committee, seeks to highlight some of these difficulties and propose measures to resolve them. firstly, by the market itself and secondly, by any regulation which may be necessary to ensure that cultural diversity and also to ensure that the distribution of benefits is fairer. so i want to thank all the speakers and all the alternative speakers who have worked on this report. i think we're going to put out a piece that's very important for the future and sustainability of the music industry itself.
the rapporteur. with the rapid technological advancement we are experiencing, it seems as if everything that was in science fiction books became reality overnight. with web 4.0, with virtual worlds, it's exactly the same. it seems like we're facing a novel by philip k. dick, but in practice, we're facing a reality that's already true. it is true that we are still very much focused on the world of video games, but according to all the studies, the latest commission report speaks of an exponential growth of 20 to 30% per annum in the business model related to the virtual worlds. in this respect, we are trying to anticipate many of the debates my colleague has just advanced in his intervention. i believe that in this respect the european parliament and the european institutions are also pioneers in the world in taking a position in the face of the challenges that it entails and, above all, we are very much concerned about the need for mass training and for mass investment in order not to lose our way as european citizens in the global competition.
president. - more free trade means more and better jobs in europe. but the eu is becoming less and less a free trade bloc and more and more a selfish, self-defeating, protectionist bloc. take the climate policy. that would be a global problem that we should solve globally. but the eu comes with a green european industrial policy and carbon caps. president, you're not creating the jobs of the future. for example, tariffs on cheap solar panels from asia may help to create a small share of european manufacturing jobs, but it also makes panels more expensive, which means fewer people are buying them, there is less work for installers, and we have to throw taxpayer dollars at subsidies. president. - the next item is the report (doc. on the contrary, it gives our people more purchasing power and creates entirely new industries here in europe. free trade makes us the richest continent on earth. let that happen again.
mr president, while technology, automation and robotics make our jobs easier, they also rob us of certain types of jobs and threaten jobs. thank god, i think these new technologies are also making it possible for workers to not have to do this hard work, and we see new opportunities in the digital or even the silver economy for new, better, better jobs. but i think we should not forget about the rights of employees, that the jobs we create really have high quality, that they have good pay, that they can not only survive on this pay, but live with dignity and really have all the opportunities and conditions they want. of course, this progress that digitalization brings, digitalization brings greater benefits to companies, but i think they should just give it back to the employees and the people who make the profit. i think it is also a very good opportunity to think about the future, perhaps over a four-day workweek and perhaps shortening additional working hours, so that we can better use work-life balance for our citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i wonder if it is not paradoxical that the right has called for a debate on quality employment and a social and market economy, when it has been systematically boycotting any new initiative to improve, precisely, the quality of employment in the european union. because examples remain: from the exploitation of scholars to the work of platforms to a right to disconnect or the inclusion of the social progress protocol in the treaties. call me crazy, but the election is just around the corner, and i think it has a lot to do with it. the reality is that in the face of this neoliberal right that is simply focused on competitiveness, because it is the only word they care about, the social democrats know who we represent. and that is why we will continue to place the welfare of people and social justice at the heart of our policies, as we have always done, since we were born, and we will continue to do so until the end. we must therefore be clear that europe must be social or it will not be.
mr president, commissioner, our social market economy must be the embodiment of social justice. we must therefore continue our efforts to strike a balance between competitiveness and growth and, on the other hand, to combat social inequalities and promote welfare. this is through the creation of quality jobs for europeans, that is, well-paid jobs with safe working conditions, career prospects and a fair balance between private and professional life. this also means simplifying the lives of our companies to promote innovation and job development in emerging sectors. let us invest heavily in education and training to equip workers with the skills needed for 21st century work. i am counting on the commission to continue to transform the european framework of social rights into concrete benefits. finally, i am counting on the belgian presidency to draw up the future of social europe. a more social europe is a europe that brings out its talents and attracts those from all over the world.
mr president, the socialist economy and economy bring a number of positive aspects with an emphasis on the good and quality of life of individuals, families, societies and communities. the european economy must be competitive, but at the same time, as a social democrat, i call on the european commission and national governments to strengthen social security and the associated objectives. let's reject the pursuit of profit as the highest value in our economy. the highest value is coexistence in peace and security and the satisfaction of all basic needs. social enterprises must reinvest their profits into social projects, creating a positive life-enhancing cycle. i would also like to emphasise that the european commission and the member states must stimulate services and support to help our middle and older generation, who no longer have the flexibility to adapt to new trends such as digitalisation and the associated impact of artificial intelligence on labour markets towards the end of their careers.
mr president, mr commissioner, if we want jobs we need employers. quality employment is the most reliable indicator of a good economic ecosystem that starts with those who create jobs because they invest and risk their wealth: entrepreneurs and self-employed. bureaucratic and administrative obstacles, high tax rates and regulatory overloads do not benefit, but act as counterproductive obstacles to the quality of employment we aspire to. we are not going to be able to do this without the help of the commission. spain, my country, is unfortunately a good example of this. and i will give you an example: when a self-employed person wants to risk his wealth and offer a job by paying a minimum wage to an employee, it costs him 2 000 euros, so that the employer can pay 1 300 euros, it costs him 2 000 euros. quality jobs are well-paid jobs, quality jobs are jobs where, when an entrepreneur risks and puts his wealth, that money comes to the person who has an employee. unfortunately, this is not the case. unfortunately, this has to be reviewed.
mr president, in recent decades, right-wing austerity policies have eroded the european social model. the deregulation of labour markets, the reduction of pensions and wages, and the facilitation of unfair dismissals have not only affected the quality of employment but also the quality of people's lives. the right, who are mostly absent today, despite having called for this debate, i say to you: understand once again that economic progress means investing in the social dimension to ensure a just green and digital transition. in the face of the conservative right-wing forces which conceive of the social market economy in a liberal way, supporting free market competition even at the expense of equal opportunities, labour rights and social justice, we will continue to work for a europe that invests in public social protection systems, ensures decent wages, fair working conditions and eradicates labour poverty. workers have the right to good working conditions to preserve their mental health and to live a dignified and full life.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, parliament has already taken a decision on seabed mining: we took it in the report on the eu's 2030 biodiversity strategy, which called for a moratorium on the international seabed authority until the effects of seabed mining on the marine environment, biodiversity or climate had been sufficiently studied and investigated. that is what this parliament has approved. so how is it possible that this proposal, which 800 scientists oppose and the norwegian environment agency has given a negative opinion on the assessment they have adopted, has been approved? the european union, commissioner, must therefore act now. how will the norwegian government control the environmental impact? how are you going to ensure that unknown species don't go extinct? how will your actions affect fisheries? what impact will they have on the potential of seabed? how will they affect the vulnerable ecosystems in the arctic? we must therefore take decisions, we must act and i believe that we must urgently and again promote what this parliament's report on the eu's 2030 biodiversity strategy said: promote an international moratorium on mining within the international maritime fund authority. that's the solution.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the following: after rising food prices, taxes, production costs, during the war in ukraine, farmers are forced to sell their produce at lower cost. in the milk sector alone, milk producers have declined by almost 40% over the past few years. we are preparing and reporting documents here in parliament calling for people living in regions to stay away. but the reality is that they are not heard even when preparing government strategic plans. in some countries, farmers were not included in the process. so far, we've divided farmers into first and second generation by dividing direct payments. while we can introduce taxes on profits in energy, we don't touch retail. why? why? it is time to ensure that farmers' production is purchased at a cost of production costs.
madam president, commissioner, german farmers are collapsing with their tractors the traffic of cities because their government intends to take away their diesel subsidy. and these protests are going to spread because the european primary sector can't stand it any longer and is tired of the european commission having legislated against it over and over again in recent years. sometimes by virtue of a living environmentalism and sometimes by virtue of a green ideology that wants to limit production, freedom of what to produce and food sovereignty. a commission which has not wanted to see, or does not want to see, that agreements with third countries are nothing but unfair competition which always harms the agricultural sector by being the currency of exchange. and so it goes. and this deterioration in the primary sector has also been brought about because governments have not been able to defend these farmers and ranchers, being complicit in this deterioration. and the main problem of our rural people is not lack of rain or the health of livestock, which is also the main problem of brussels, the european commission, which seems to have forgotten who it should be defending all the time. and as one of the banners of german farmers says, "if not farmers, no food, no future".
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on the left you fill your mouth when you talk about inequality: inequality between men and women, inequality between people of one race and another, inequality between young and old. they talk about all kinds of inequalities, except for the one that is the most flagrant in all of europe: the inequality between the countryside and the city. the rural population suffers from less connectivity, both digital and transport. it has less access to education, financial and health services and, in short, has a substantially lower income level than those living in cities. in some parts of southern europe, as in my country, this gap is still greater. 78% of households in rural areas have low incomes, compared with 29% in urban areas. the european people's party therefore has a priority to end this inequality and improve living conditions in rural spain in rural europe. ignoring this gap and pushing for radical measures, which will only exacerbate it, is a very serious mistake that the left will pay dearly.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the alarming increase in hate speech and hate crimes in europe in recent weeks calls for an unequivocal response, as many have pointed out. europe is a place where cultural and religious diversity must flourish. respect and tolerance are the founding values of the union. hate is a threat to the functioning of democracy because it can discourage citizens, but sometimes also journalists or politicians, from actively participating in democratic debate. we must deploy all the tools available, from legislation to public policies, and involve all relevant actors: union institutions, national authorities, civil society organisations and online platforms. in this context, the commission stresses the importance of rapidly adopting the proposal for a council decision to extend the list of euro-crimes to hate speech and hate crimes. i would like to thank your parliament again for its support in this matter and i would like to thank you for all the elements that have been put forward in this debate today.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank the commissioner for his words. i would like to thank all the honourable members who have worked on this report and the vast majority of those who have intervened in this debate, who also show that the vast majority of this parliament is very clear that we, as political operators, are extremely responsible for the public opinion ecosystem and that we can set good or bad examples for the rest of the citizenry on what it means to use ideological pluralism and our freedom of conscience. we can do this carefully, thinking about what we do and say, or we can also be dragged along by the bubbles of hostility and hatred. the great majority of speakers today, however, have wanted to show the need to work against the most dangerous discourse manifestations that can lead to serious hate crimes. that's what we're on. i hope that tomorrow the house will see it this way by a majority. but i want to thank mrs adamowicz in a very special way, who is a perfect example of how to deal personally and politically with what it is to suffer the consequences of the worst discourse of intolerance which then generates a victimhood that is very, very difficult to drag. that's why we want to fight impunity. that is why we regret that the council is not here today. i want to point out something to you, that we see things as they are and not our prejudices. homeless people murdered, for example, in spain; a roma woman urinated by a group of young people in italy; throwing a two-year-old boy several meters for sneaking into a children's car and because the child is black, in italy, by the father of the car's baby, a two-year-old boy!; torturing a mentally disabled boy forty-eight hours, sewing his lips and torturing and tattooing him brutally in spain; murdering a persian woman who converted to christianity in a refugee camp in france or killing two gay youths for being in a bar in slovakia. those are hate crimes. please, ladies, let's face reality and not our own prejudices.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. across europe, we are witnessing a dramatic rise in hate crime and hate speech, and under the guise of freedom of expression, a frightening increase in disinformation and disinformation campaigns. the council has, meanwhile, been dragging up the convention on the unified criminalisation of hate speech and hate crime for years. the european parliament has also called for a new framework for the implementation of the european union's internal market. hate speech as a fundamental violation of fundamental rights, a means of silencing, especially marginalized groups, and a threat to our european values, our society and democracy must have no place in the eu. today's vote is a clear no to incitement and hate crime and at the same time a means of pressure and coercion for the european council. it is high time that the addition of the eu list of incitement and hate crimes creates a strong legal basis to counter fundamental rights violations more effectively. at the same time and i will not tire of stressing this we have long been calling for gender-based violence to be included in the eu crime list. the eu is highly unworthy of having to fight for a majority that is in favour of a clear criminalization of all forms of violence.
the next item is the debate on the report by katarina barley, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union – annual report 2022 and 2023 (2023/2028(ini)) (a9-0376/2023).
member of the commission. i would like to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur katarina barley, for this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. the report provides a comprehensive overview of the situation of fundamental rights in the union. i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize in particular some elements. first, on the rule of law and access to justice, a central element of our action in this area is the annual rule of law report, where the commission monitors the state of the rule of law across the european union, and which covers many of the issues highlighted also in your report. the rule of law report has become a key driver for reforms. as you know, since 2022, the report includes country-specific recommendations addressed to each member state. the 2023 report assesses, for the first time, the follow-up to these recommendations. this year the commission will also open the rule of law reports to certain accession countries, those that are the most advanced. these are important steps in the evolution of our rule of law policy, and i look forward to continuing the fruitful cooperation with parliament in this regard. the commission is also determined to use all available instruments to ensure that the founding values are respected, including with regard to the use of the union budget. we do this in particular through infringement procedures, the conditionality regulation and the horizontal enabling condition on the charter of fundamental rights. furthermore, the commission has dedicated its latest annual report on the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights to effective legal protection and access to justice. we adopted this report last december. in this charter report, we underline the need for the european union and its member states to continue to provide effective legal protection in all areas of eu law. secondly, a few words on the rise of hate speech again and hate crimes in all its forms. the commission is determined to address the increase in hate speech and hate crime by ensuring the effective application of eu rules in this field, especially the 2008 framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. we have also proposed to include hate speech and hate crimes in the list of serious crossborder eu crimes covered by article 83 of the treaty. as i stressed in the previous debate, it is time for a rapid adoption of a council decision on the matter where unanimity is required. the recent joint communication no place for hate also focuses on the need to respond to the threat of hate speech online. in this context, i want to mention the code of conduct in place since 2016, which aims to make platforms accountable for curbing hate speech. such a code of conduct will remain an important tool under the digital services act. we are therefore rapidly advancing towards an agreement on a revised code of conduct, which will help anticipate rising threats before they go viral. on a related note, the political agreement reached on the ai act in december will help ensure that risky ai systems are designed and used in compliance with fundamental rights, and that violations of fundamental rights can be addressed by national authorities. thirdly, with regard to freedom of assembly, association and expression, the commission shares the concerns that these rights are sometimes disproportionately restricted, including for civil society organisations and rights defenders. these fundamental rights form the very basis for a free, democratic and pluralistic society. we therefore call on the member states to ensure respect for these rights. the commission monitors the situation of civil society organisations and rights defenders and reports about it. we are needed. we also issued recommendations to the member states on undue restrictions on the civic space in the rule of law report. in 2023 we also followed up on the 2022 charter report by organising a series of seminars on the thriving civic space. this process brought together stakeholders to reflect on how to better empower and support civil society in the european union. the defence of democracy package, adopted in december, also includes a recommendation to promote the participation of citizens and civil society organisations in policy-making. finally, your report rightly underlines the need to combat non-discrimination and achieve equal treatment everywhere in the european union. this is also the spirit that has guided the commission's actions to achieve a union of equality through several dedicated strategies. in this context, let me highlight, for example, the importance that the proposed horizontal equal treatment directive would have in substantially reinforcing fundamental rights. we call on all member states to support this proposal. i thank you for your attention, but of course i will listen carefully to your remarks and again, your proposals to improve the civic space and to strengthen the capacity to protect fundamental rights in the european union.
the committee on constitutional affairs is the rapporteur for an opinion. madam president, mr commissioner, the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union is a report which regularly monitors this issue which is at the heart of european construction and its values. as regards the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs, our vigilance is primarily on the progress of the procedure for the european union's accession to the european convention on human rights, which is still incomplete, although it has been required since the treaty of lisbon, adopted more than 15 years ago. the commission also calls for the european union to accede to the framework convention for the protection of national minorities and to the european charter of regional languages. the few member states which have not yet done so, including france, i regret of course, must also ratify them at last. their binding nature must apply to all member states, not only to candidates for accession. the same is true of the istanbul convention on the protection of women's fundamental rights, which six member states have not yet ratified, and of other requests. this is about strengthening and expanding the tasks of the european union agency for fundamental rights. the annual publication since 2020 of the european commission's report on the rule of law is also, of course, an important step forward. the european union must continue to strengthen all mechanisms for the protection of fundamental rights in the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. parliamentarism is one of the great innovations of mankind. why? why? because it is a political form of cooperation that also defends fundamental rights. and fundamental rights are part of what makes up the european union. nowhere in the world are human dignity and human rights so high, nowhere do democracy and the rule of law follow so clearly. but it's a day to redefine what generations before us have built here. parliamentarism eradicates what was before in the world of violence, where decisions were made by force the force of an authority was that, the force of the street. parliamentarianism is at least trying to overcome this, and fundamental rights are trying to enforce it. each generation had its own way of defending fundamental rights. and we need to see what we need to do today. what is to be done in our generation to defend fundamental rights? i believe that a new prohibition, a policy of prohibition, is a threat to fundamental rights. appeasement appeasement against aggressors in this world is a threat to fundamental rights in our country because they are also threatened from the outside, but also a kind of bidding mentality or cocooning, as former german federal president christian wulff recently said the retreat of the likely vast majority of people who want to live together in peace and respect, who understand that freedom is above all the freedom of others, which must be respected, respected and also defended. the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment, which is the subject of a proposal from the commission to the council.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner reynders, since we started the cycle of fundamental rights in this parliament, it has been a classic debate in this european parliament on the resolution on its situation in the european union proponent of the annual reports 2022 and 2023: katarina barley. of the many points to which you have referred, i have two. one of them will be discussed in this house: the need for a security plan for journalists against intimidation, and of course also for the guarantee of information pluralism. and the second is very important because it has been present throughout the debate that has led to the agreement on the new pact on migration and asylum, which was finalized in december: the protection of the human rights of migrants and asylum seekers. because the charter of fundamental rights of the european union protects not only european citizens but also any foreign person, migrant or asylum seeker under european law, which guarantees their protection from arbitrary detention, from violation of their rights, legal assistance, healthcare and, of course, in rescue and rescue operations at sea, which must be respectful of human rights, a coordinated mechanism. in 2023 40 000 people reached canary waters, but 6 000 lost their lives trying to reach the european union. migrants and asylum seekers in the european union deserve something more and better, and absolute respect for their fundamental rights and human rights.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues, with the consent of mr aguilar, i will be very slow. first, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadows for the good cooperation on this report. fundamental rights are the foundation of the eu. it is good that we do this exercise every year evaluating the situation on fundamental rights in europe. i believe that this report paints a realistic picture, raising concerns on press freedom and media pluralism, rule of law and justice, hate speech and violence, including gender-based violence, but also the increase of poverty, inequalities and social exclusion in the eu. the report calls on the commission to act and to intervene where fundamental rights are being breached. but it also calls on the member states to be proactive. this means that national parliaments, national and local administrations and specifically law enforcement have a duty to promote and protect our fundamental rights. without proper implementation, our yearly exercise will have no impact. therefore, i call on this house to support this call and to put pressure on other governments.
on behalf of the ecr group. mrs president, this annual report on fundamental rights has become the psychiatrist's couch where you expel your traumas, your hatreds and your double standards. they're the best students in the communist school. if with stalin human rights were a fundamental tool of the class struggle, you are serving to divide society, intimidate the majority and overthrow governments. they present a list of alleged collective victims of hatred and discrimination, but they forget the real fear millions of europeans have of insecurity caused by their immigration policies. they talk about media freedom, but they only subsidize their domesticated media. they talk about free speech, but they impose censorship with their social media verifiers. they say corruption is incompatible with the rule of law, but half of this house is silent when sánchez in spain intends to amnestie corrupt politicians in the biggest act of political corruption, which is to sell the homeland and legality for a handful of votes. they deny the freedom of education to families by imposing sexual indoctrination on lobbies in classrooms. they deny the right to life by proclaiming abortion and euthanasia as rights. their europe is a horrible dystopia, but on june 9th this will change, because another europe free is possible.
madam president, i want to thank the speakers for the report they have made. the consensus they've had is proof of good policy. geothermal energy has a vast potential, which has not yet been fully exploited. this report highlights this issue. however, we need to move forward with this climate emergency so that these systems have more support, more strength, and more research to get the full performance out of it. in addition, we have taken some steps through the green pact, including the new renewable energy directive and the energy efficiency directive, where binding objectives are set for the first time. in renewable energy, heating and cooling they can facilitate, support and support the deployment of geothermal energy. but for this we need an appropriate framework that clearly and clearly maps geothermal resources, simplifies and accelerates administrative permits, as in the renewable energy directive, and helps to provide financial security for these projects. i therefore agree with the request made by this report to the commission that we need a geothermal strategy in the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the s&d group on this report on the gender aspects of rising living costs and the impact of the energy crisis, i would like to congratulate alice kuhnke first of all on her commitment and great work. in mid-2022, this parliament adopted a report on women's poverty in europe, of which i was a rapporteur, and which clearly called on the commission and the member states to act against poverty, especially against women's, which is very concentrated in single-mother households and is therefore very much linked to child poverty which is undoubtedly the most unjust and, i would say, even the most stupid of all. since then, we've had an energy crisis. we have also suffered from the rising costs of inflation, which has led to the united nations saying that we are facing the worst cost of living crisis in a generation, which has greatly increased energy poverty. but we must not forget that economic phenomena do not affect all people equally and also have an unequal impact from a gender perspective. there are 20 million more women than men in the european union living below the poverty line, which is normal because women are more financially vulnerable, we have access to more precarious jobs and we have an overload of care that prevents us from working longer hours to earn more. we therefore call once again on the commission and the member states to act to combat poverty, not forgetting that poverty is a woman's face with her children. we call for a just energy transition and a green transition. we call for the guarantee of access to decent employment, decent housing, affordable energy and access to services such as health, education or care, which are essential to lift women and their children out of poverty. it would be a shame if we didn't respond to this reality. so now that we are rethinking economic governance, let us also think about the negative effect that austerity had on the most vulnerable people.
madam president, commissioner, when we designated 2023 as the european year of competences, we aimed to be ahead of the curve and prevent any working person from getting in the way. but this means that the burden of being prepared to change from one job or sector to another cannot be on the shoulders of these same workers. i would like to remind you that the mismatch between supply and demand for skills is more related to poor working conditions than to the lack of qualification of staff. and if this directly affects anyone, it's the younger people, because we're facing the generation that's better prepared, but also the one that suffers the most job insecurity. i would therefore like to leave a small recipe to all those who say they have problems finding qualified staff or staff, that they should pay more and better; that they should offer stability, dignity and training and that they should give hope for the future, because precariousness will never be the solution.
author. – madam president, the outstanding british human rights activist benedict rodgers stipulates in his new book, the china nexus, methods used by the prc to curb religious freedom and freedom of belief. it applies to uyghur muslims, to tibetan buddhists, to christians, and to falun gong practitioners. the case of mr ding yuande that we take in the resolution is the proof of these methods. his son protests just in front of parliament, and we have to remember about falun gong. i commend the notion of colleagues to use this opportunity and to speak out in their case.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, i welcome parliament's strong stance on the persecution of falun gong practitioners. just this year alone, reports mention a variety of tortures the practitioners were forced to endure: wearing a straitjacket, being shocked with an electric baton; sprinkled with chilli peppers, having their feet burned, being force-fed with mustard oil or deprived of food and sleep. several women were sexually assaulted and we shouldn't forget about the sickening act of forced organ harvesting. dear colleagues, let me speak frankly. for more than seven decades, the ccp has terrorised people across mainland china and continues to commit gross crimes against humanity. yet, as the eu, we have sanctioned four minor officials for human rights abuses in xinjiang. i am sorry, but this is a weak and insufficient response to the wide scale of crimes being committed by this regime every day. it is time that the eu is more principled in its approach towards the ccp. it is the lack of principled policies that led us into this current security peril. a good start to addressing it is to hold the ccp and its henchmen accountable for crimes committed against humanity.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has been 25 years since the authorities in beijing began a real persecution of falun gong followers, but also of uighurs, rohingya, kashmiris and tibetans. from the real witch hunts against minorities and medieval ethnic groups, but perpetrated with the help of increasingly oppressive futuristic technologies that seem to have emerged from george orwell's famous novel 1984. a terrifying commission, which has led to the disappearance of tens of thousands of people. in the face of these crimes there should be no other option but a firm, clear and unequivocal condemnation. we should all call for an international investigation into the criminal trade in organs and very harsh sanctions against the officials and authorities responsible. and instead, in our europe and even in italy, there are those who insist on defending their failed choice to join the silk road, but also on staying far away from any kind of criticism of beijing's work. i'm not surprised by this silence. the king is naked, and in the face of these atrocities, we either defend our values and human rights without a "yes" or "no" but, or we choose the path of complicity, because silence is complicity and this parliament, i ask you tonight, must never be silent! always with those who fight for freedom and the right to exist.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, on behalf of vice-president high representative borrell, this debate clearly reflects the european parliament’s sustained and deep concerns about human rights violations in china. just five weeks ago, this house issued a resolution on the forced assimilation of tibetan children through an extensive network of boarding schools. another one was approved in may 2022, focussed on forced organ harvesting practices in china. the eu’s persistent and grave concerns when it comes to the human rights situation in china – the list is long: political re-education camps, mass arbitrary detentions, widespread surveillance, tracking and control measures, systemic and severe restrictions on the exercise of fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of religion or belief, and the use of forced labour, torture, forced abortion and sterilisation, birth control and family separation policies. as we speak here today, human rights defenders, human rights lawyers, journalists, intellectuals, academics and persons belonging to ethnic and religious minorities continue to be exposed to harassment, intimidation and surveillance and subjected to exit bans, house arrest, torture and ill treatment, unlawful detention, sentencing and enforced disappearance, and sometimes to transnational repression. human rights remain one of the most challenging issues in eu china relations. the eu continues to seize every opportunity, including multilaterally and at the highest political level, to raise its persistent concerns about the very serious human rights situation in china. the 24th eu-china summit, held in beijing on 7 december 2023, was no exception. in addition to raising the eu’s systemic human rights concerns, the president of the european council and the president of the european commission also raised several individual cases directly with president xi jinping. let me reaffirm what has been already stated during previous urgency debates in this parliament. the eu will never compromise on human rights. we will not stop voicing our concerns in public whenever necessary, and we stand by civil society and human rights defenders. we will continue to urge china to abide by its obligations under national law, including its own constitution and international law, to respect, protect and fulfil human rights for all. on the broader relationship, the european council conclusions on eu-china relations of june 2023 demonstrated unity among the eu and member states regarding the validity of the eu’s multifaceted approach. china is certainly a partner, but china is also a competitor. but china is also, and particularly, a rival. we need to increase resilience and to pursue de-risking, while co-operating on common interests and global challenges.
the discussion is over. the vote will be delivered tomorrow thursday 18 january 2024.
the following table lists the discussion on the threat of famine due to the spread of conflict in sudan (2024/2505(rsp)).
i'm a writer. over seven and a half million people are refugees in sudan. it's the largest deportation in the world. five million people are suffering from acute hunger, and the protracted conflicts have led to the highest proportion of malnourished children in the world. human suffering in sudan must not be forgotten when the spotlight is on other wars and conflicts. human tragedies should not be put against each other. when war crimes are put into systems by ruthless warlords and armies, human dignity is shattered, and people lose their resilience to further abuse. it's a ruthless, inhuman and cynical weapon in war. it's always the average person who gets the hardest. we also know that sexual assaults are on the rise in this area. it is high time for the eu and the international community to shoulder responsibility for global peace and security. the world needs a new peace movement now more than ever.
author. madam president, the proportions of the humanitarian situation in sudan are dramatic and alarming. that is why today, in this resolution, we remind that more than 18 million people are in food insecurity in sudan and 5 million of them are in a situation of emergency. more than 7.5 million people have been forced to flee their homes from violence and conflict. we are facing the world's largest child displacement crisis. today we call on the parties to the conflict to respect civilians, to respect humanitarian law and to stop violence against humanitarian workers. we call on the commission to increase emergency funding to address the critical humanitarian situation in sudan and also call for sanctions against those responsible for attacks on civilians.
author. – madam president, despite the efforts of the international community, the agreement between the world bank and the world food programme helping millions of sudanese affected by the ongoing crisis and dire humanitarian situation, we face even worse prospects. the world food programme is ringing alarm bells concerning the upcoming lean period for crops and the worsening of the situation in sudan. we have to increase our diplomatic efforts in order to bring parties to the conflict to the negotiating table, and in particular to impose a ceasefire there.
author. madam president, the truth is that there are wars that are not first-class and victims that are not on television. unfortunately, this is the case in sudan. the figures speak for themselves: seven and a half million people are forcibly displaced in what is the world's biggest displacement crisis and 18 million people are at risk of starvation. this horror has been met with irresponsible diplomacy, ineffective statements and an anemic response to humanitarian calls. in fact, only a third of the un request has been financed. it is urgent that a ceasefire and unconditional access to humanitarian aid be implemented, that an arms embargo be enforced as demanded by the united nations and extended to the whole country, and that europe open up legal and safe pathways to ensure that sudanese who want it can seek international protection in europe. the sudanese people deserve much more than a forgotten conflict or a humanitarian crisis. the sudanese people deserve to live in freedom and peace.
for the epp group. madam president, the situation in sudan is truly disastrous. the parties to the conflict in sudan continue to fight for control of the state and its resources and do not respect their jihad declarations. almost six million displaced people make sudan the most displaced country in the world. it is also important to note that almost half of the sudanese population needs humanitarian assistance and protection. 37% of the sudanese population is facing hunger, so it is certainly our duty today to call on all parties to the conflict to end hostilities immediately, to facilitate access to humanitarian aid and to seek solutions to this conflict. we have today approved a report on the role of european union preventive diplomacy in resolving ongoing conflicts around the world. i think this is exactly the example where our diplomacy can do more. i also call on the commissioner to do this.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, mr commissioner, the implementation of the transition agreement to democracy in sudan, which had as its main guarantors the sudanese armed forces and the rapid response forces, has led to a large-scale armed conflict. the extreme violence has led to a humanitarian catastrophe, which, while not a forgotten crisis, has nevertheless been overshadowed by other more media-driven crises, such as the invasion of ukraine or the conflict in the gaza strip. despite the extraordinary work, carried out at high risk, by international organisations and the support of the international community and in particular the european union, the situation on the ground is one of great suffering and deprivation. 20 million people in extreme food insecurity, almost 6 million displaced persons, 12,000 lives lost demand immediate action. i call for an end to hostilities and for the mobilization of all so that peace negotiations can resume. calls for increased humanitarian aid in particular from the european union and the member states and support for the organisations which continue to provide it on the ground. finally, i call for sanctions on those responsible and those who exploit the situation for illicit business and to break the un arms embargo in darfur.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, nine months of fratricidal struggle have made sudan the country with the highest number of internally displaced persons in the world, causing a terrible food crisis and 7.5 million refugees. the european union must certainly increase humanitarian aid but it is not enough, because the problem is actually another: we must ensure that international organisations, which are now almost all forced to evacuate their staff, can return to ensure that any humanitarian aid is distributed safely on the ground. it is therefore necessary to find mediation between the parties to the conflict, even by threatening very heavy sanctions against those who are guilty of war crimes and crimes against humanity, but by making the first and essential condition of respect for international humanitarian law. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. now we must quickly find a credible alternative; we can and must use all our diplomatic tools and political weight to play the leading role. i therefore ask that this negotiating table with regional partners be quick and that this barbarism be stopped quickly, without choosing the classic model of 'throw money at the problem', because this will not be enough to solve the problem, nor will it wash our consciences. time is running out of steam, we can't afford to lose any more.
member of the commission. – madam president, the humanitarian situation in sudan has gone from bad to catastrophic. the eu reiterates its strong condemnation of the continuous fighting between the sudanese armed forces and the rapid support forces and their respective affiliated militias. since the eruption of the conflict, the eu has been working with international partners and neighbouring countries in order to end the conflict. the eu encourages both warring parties to resolve their disputes via dialogue in an inclusive way, and strongly commit to a full cessation of hostilities so as to build a space for a durable peace solution in sudan. in this regard, the eu supports the efforts of the intergovernmental authority for development to secure an unconditional ceasefire and a resolution of the conflict in sudan through political dialogue. we deplore the fact that, over a month since the 41st extraordinary assembly in djibouti, neither the sudanese armed forces nor the rapid support forces have honoured any of the commitments they made there, while the suffering of the sudanese people continues unabated. we are deeply concerned about the dire humanitarian situation in the country. hence, today’s debate is a timely opportunity to discuss the threat of famine caused also by the expansion of conflict and violence into the agricultural regions of sudan. in addition to the largest internal displacement crisis in the world, with over 7 million people displaced within the country – including over 5 million displaced as a result of the conflict – the sudanese population now faces a severe nutrition crisis, with the highest rate of child malnutrition in the world. the world food programme estimates that 17.7 million people will be in high levels of acute food insecurity, including close to 5 million in emergency. under peaceful conditions, a significant number of sudanese would be harvesting and cultivating winter wheat now, so they could provide for their households and families and support national food availability as a whole. for almost ten months of intensifying conflict and inter-communal violence, agricultural activity has been hindered, farmers cannot import, and face limited supplies at local markets, while pastoralists are unable to access grazing areas due to insecurity. since the start of the war, the eu has stepped up its efforts to mitigate the humanitarian crisis in sudan and the region with the additional funding of eur 60 million. overall, the us allocated over eur 128 million in 2023 to its humanitarian response in sudan. eu humanitarian aid provides communities with health and nutritional care, food assistance, water and sanitation, and shelter, and also contributes to the nutritional treatment and care of children under the age of five and pregnant or breastfeeding women across sudan. we are also working together with partners to promote safe access to humanitarian aid and the protection of civilians. the eu and its member states’ contributions represent a third of the total international response. however, this is far from enough. the situation in sudan has become resource-demanding since the impact of the conflict is constantly increasing and the risk of famine is rising. honourable members, rest assured that we remain committed to the people of sudan. this year, the eu plans to continue supporting the population trapped in the worst conflict-affected areas, and those living in displacement hotspots, with the necessary humanitarian assistance.
the discussion is over. the vote will be delivered tomorrow thursday 18 january 2024.
the following is the discussion on tajikistan: state repression of independent media (2024/2506(rsp)).
author. – madam president, (start of speech off mic) ... commissioner, dear colleagues, first of all, i would like to thank all colleagues for excellent cooperation over this important resolution. thank you. the last decade for tajikistan meant a continuous decline of media freedom. journalists were sentenced and journalism has become a dangerous job. now, the media’s freedom is reported to be in its worst state since 1991. seven journalists were sentenced to lengthy prison terms for their work in 2022 and 2023, while anti-terrorism legislation is being used to silence critical voices. what was a relatively diverse media environment now entails only a few remaining media outlets that still have to endure harassment and threats. the rest of journalists are leaving the country and young people are afraid to choose this occupation. in our resolution, we urge the authorities to stop the persecution, release detainees, including human rights lawyers, and ensure safe working environment for media workers. ensuring the independence of media and freedom of expression must be a condition for the negotiations of the new eu-tajikistan enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement. we call on international institutions, such as unhrc, to closely monitor the situation in the country and to report the findings. tajikistan’s media landscape is at a critical juncture and deserves our and international attention. thank you for your support.
i'm a writer. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. let's do it basically today. free media is the salt in the soup for a society that wants to develop and thrive. it is a fallacy of state power to think that by prohibiting, shutting down, or using force to impede other opinions, divergent ideas, or critical debate, one can achieve social peace and social development. no, on the contrary! society develops through critical discourse and the friction of opinion. this may be unpleasant for those in power. you have to explain and convince yourself that you have to justify your own policy. it's a constant process. and that means a lot of work, but it's worth it in the end. the government of tajikistan should respect these principles for the benefit of its own people and the citizens of tajikistan. if the tajik media landscape is in its worst condition since the civil war, since the 1990s, then this is certainly an urgent need for a change. admit to the freedom of the press, allow critical reporting and create a democratic and safe space for journalists, bloggers and human rights activists. in the end, it's an investment in your own country and in your own citizens.
author. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues. the persecution and detention of journalists and their legal defenders, the crackdown on independent media and the closure of many media outlets have become a grim reality in tajikistan. these and other human rights violations and restrictions of civil society activities are completely unacceptable and must be met with the appropriate response from the eu and member states. we must demand that these human rights and media freedom violations are stopped, that independent investigations are carried out, and the necessary legislative changes are made. i call on the european commission to defend the rights of independent media and the situation of journalists in tajikistan in a principled manner, and to link these issues directly to the negotiations on the eu—tajikistan enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement and the possibility of granting gsp+ to tajikistan. i also call on the political elite in tajikistan to abandon authoritarian policies and respect the rights of independent media.
mr president, i would like to join the colleagues who proposed the resolution on tajikistan. i think it is extremely important that we also focus on this region of central asia, where, after the fall of the soviet union, states have emerged that try to follow the path of democracy in some cases, but unfortunately, they do not always succeed. and the situation in tajikistan is getting worse. that's why the proposal is on the table here today. there is a suppression of freedom of speech, there is a suppression of the independence of journalists, and we are dealing with the case of a particular journalist, mamadshev, who is simply imprisoned by those forces. and we want and rightly want her to be released as soon as possible, because the attack on her is only an attack on independent journalism. so i support the motion and hope it gets voted on this way.
member of the commission. – madam president, freedom of expression is one of the fundamental values of the european union. it is indispensable for individual dignity and fulfilment, but also essential for the enjoyment of a wide range of other human rights be they civil, political, economic, social or cultural. this is why the eu pays particular attention to the situation of independent media, supporting media pluralism and freedom of expression across the world. this applies also to our relations with tajikistan. the eu regrets to see that the media environment in tajikistan remains constrained by an obstructive regulatory environment, political interference and lack of diversity. the eu shares the concerns of the osce representative on freedom of the media, ms ribeiro, expressed during her visit to tajikistan on 22 october 22nd, about the high number of imprisoned journalists, as well as the persisting obstacles to media freedom. the eu also shares her concerns about the physical and legal safety of journalists, media regulation, accreditation of media workers and access to information. the government of tajikistan justifies its restrictive approach using security reasons to fight against terrorism and tackling islamic radicalism. while the eu recognises the security concerns of tajikistan, it does not find the measures proportionate. the eu actively supports independent media and the strengthening of journalists’ capacity through trainings addressed to both private media professionals and institutional press officers from ministries and the tajik parliament. the positive dynamic in eu tajikistan relations allows for strong engagement with the authorities on human rights through regular political dialogues as well as cooperation activities. notably, the eu discussed the situation of independent media and journalists at the 14th eu-tajikistan human rights dialogue, which took place in dushanbe on 23 december. at that meeting, the eu called on tajikistan to ensure the right to freedom of expression both online and offline, without fear of reprisals, in compliance with international law and standards. the eu requested that the government of tajikistan ensure effective protection of independent journalists and media workers against any form of harassment and intimidation.
the discussion is over. the vote will be delivered tomorrow thursday 18 january 2024.
the following list of candidates includes the explanations for the vote.
madam president, let me express my satisfaction that the european parliament has adopted a clear statement and resolution on what is happening in slovakia, concerning governmental activities, the planning of the dissolution of key anti-corruption services in slovakia and its consequences for the rule of law. the european parliament called on the slovak government to reconsider these changes in view of their possible implications for the rule of law, the union's financial interests and its anti-corruption framework. i voted for this resolution. i spoke in the discussion and explained that i care very much that slovakia takes a democratic path, that it does not interfere with the institution that helps fight corruption.
madam president, i have supported this motion for a resolution. allow me to give you a brief reasoning, because i think it's important. we are obliged to conduct a responsible dialogue with the slovak government. the motion for a resolution was, in my view, indeed balanced. the slovak government may adjust the institutional framework for the investigation of serious crime and corruption. the important thing is that they will of course continue to rule on matters before independent courts. however, other judicial authorities are also an essential part of the decision-making process and fundamental changes to this judicial framework cannot be implemented so quickly without proper preparation and discussion. this really undermines the values of the rule of law that the european union must guarantee in all member states, because it is the fundamental value of european civil rights.
madam president, i supported this resolution. i am very saddened by what is happening in slovakia in the area of the rule of law. i can say as a member of parliament for the czech republic that when i was minister of justice in the czech republic, we often consulted with our slovak colleagues on how best to fight organised crime, economic crime. the specialised police and judicial authorities in slovakia were a great hope that serious crime would be suppressed, punished and condemned in slovakia. and now we are witnessing a completely opposite trend, where there is a threat that someone is being slightly underestimated in slovakia as a suspect of serious crime, and therefore the state's ability to defend itself against various forms of organized crime will be severely limited. so i consider this resolution extremely important.
madam president, i have supported this report. it is clear that national parliaments are the essential legitimate body of the will of the people of a member state. however, in my view, their position does not automatically mean that their decision will be reflected or incorporated into the union decision. i don't think that would be reasonable. in view of the purpose and objectives of our union, the functioning of the european union cannot be based on veto and unilateral demands, which i think the report rightly points out. i think, however, that a more effective way of applying parliament's views in this european union decision-making process can be found. the system of existing orange traffic lights i think is not very efficient. that's what this report says. that's why i endorsed this report.
i also supported the report, madam president, and i think it is important, as a colleague, that we speak seriously about strengthening the role of national parliaments in the adoption of european legislation. what i consider a major problem is that there is a very short eight-week period after which national parliaments have to express their serious views on european legislation. this is a time limit which, when holidays and other holidays are still needed, is in principle unacceptable and unmanageable. i hope that the next parliament, the next commission will take these objections, this debate, this decision, this resolution of parliament into account and we will seriously consider how to involve national parliaments more in the adoption of european legislation, and not just in a formal way, that we will create a very short deadline and not take these opinions too seriously.
the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the treaty on european union. this european union citizenship has been part of our lives for over 30 years. the report is devoted to the analysis of existing problems and legislation on european union citizenship. i welcome the european parliament's call to the member states to strengthen and develop school curricula on teaching, on the history and present of europe and the european union. this is clearly an important tool to strengthen civic engagement. the european parliament also calls on the commission to develop public consultations and the involvement of young people. our priority should therefore be to exploit the existing potential of the treaties, because i do not believe that there is a need to create any new status of european union citizenship and that interference with national competences is inappropriate. that's why i didn't back up the report.
madam president, i have to say that i was ready to vote against this report on eu citizenship since, during the last at least ten years, the only approach is that citizenship of the european union is a direct derivative from member state citizenship, and it gives no additional value to european citizenship. even brexit did not teach us – when losing british citizenship after leaving the european union, people lost also european citizenship. but a very good sign we had today, at least in this report, with 327 votes in favour and 252 against, was that the special citizens card was voted.
madam president, this report is designed to push for the ratification of the ceta agreement among the 10 member states that have not already done so, one of which is my own country, ireland. it is nothing but a celebratory exercise which inflates the benefits without any recognition of the flaws of the agreement. it presents inflated numbers about the increase in trade in goods and trade in services, and on the number of jobs created. the report does not mention the shortcomings of the investment court protection model included in ceta. our existing court system is well able to deal with business concerns. it also states that ceta fosters climate action, in complete disregard of the negative effects of the investment protection provisions on climate policy. and finally, it’s a lie: the report claims that the review of the trade and sustainable development (tsd) chapter can only happen after full ratification. well, legal external analysis has indicated that the review of the tsd can be done before ratification. this is a misleading argument used to push countries into ratifying the agreement, and it’s why i voted against.
madam president, i also endorse this report. diplomacy is the art of making a deal. the union is highly respected in the global arena. she is also the recipient of the prestigious nobel peace prize. the report outlines a number of options for increasing our diplomatic efforts in a number of conflicts. we have a responsibility to future generations to use our opportunities to resolve these ongoing conflicts. it's going to cost us a bit, but we have enough staff and the necessary financial resources. and the possibility of further development of cooperation and also of solving tangible problems such as migration will undoubtedly return to us, as will the means put in place to strengthen our diplomatic activities.
madam president, i endorsed this report. i am pleased that the position of the office of the ombudsman is increasingly established and that we have approved the 2022 annual report, which has been completed on 16,000 requests from european citizens. this is evidence that the office is really burdened, that europeans have found their way to it and that they often turn to the ombudsman to complain about how, for example, european institutions and structures decide or fail to decide in a transparent way, how they decide quickly or vice versa, and what documents and information are public. the authority shall make an exceptional contribution to the cultivation of public administration, the cultivation of the european union's institutions and greater transparency. and that's supposed to be his goal. and the debate that was here was also praised by this office. i'm very glad that the report has passed, been approved, and that the bureau can move on.
i have supported the report on the transparency and accountability of ngos financed from the eu budget, and let me give some reasons. the european parliament appreciates the role of non-profit organisations and calls on the commission to further simplify and streamline the eu funding application process. the nos also link civil society and politics today and therefore must meet the requirements of transparency and accountability. the european parliament therefore requires that non-profit organisations, like other organisations, must indicate how they use the european budget. we need to strengthen public transparency and accountability. we also stress that organisations involved in activities such as hate speech, incitement to terrorism or religious extremism or support for violence should not have access to eu-funded programmes.
the ballot is over.
the next meeting will be held tomorrow, thursday 18 january 2024 at 9.00 a.m. the list of submissions has been published and is available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this meeting will be sent to parliament for approval at the beginning of tomorrow afternoon.
the first item on the agenda concerns the commission's statement on: recent ecological disaster on plastic grain losses and its impact on marine and coastal habitats from microplastics (2024/2513(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, good morning. plastic pellet spills, like the recent event on the spanish coast or the french coast last year, give rise to a wave of public concern. such accidents are occasional, but they create sudden and significant negative impacts on some regions. other regions have been struggling with the endemic pollution by plastic pellets due to poor handling at every stage of the supply chain, and such pollution may not have been always as visible as in major accidents, but it has nonetheless harmful impacts on soils and waters, on lives and livelihoods. so the need for action is clear. that’s why in october last year, the commission put forward a proposal for a regulation on preventing plastic pellet losses. the primary focus is on prevention because once pellets enter the environment, they are difficult and costly to capture. and i would like to thank parliament for giving priority to the work of this proposal in such a busy period of time. coming back to the case at hand, let me begin with the tools that we already have at eu level to assist. the eu system hosted in the european maritime safety agency allows the sharing of information between countries on containers lost at sea. it was duly activated in this case. other forms of eu support are available through the emergency response coordination centre, eu civil protection mechanism, for example, and the eu solidarity fund. support might be also available from funds such as the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund and cohesion funds. so the reasons for the fall remain to be investigated as well as the responsibilities. in the meantime, the clean-up is ongoing, but these operations are costly in terms of time and equipment, and they are also very challenging, especially at sea. that is why accidental and operational losses should be best avoided in the first place, and when losses occur, the polluter pays principle must apply. so the commission proposal on plastic pellet losses requires economic operators to act in the following order. firstly, they have to take action to prevent any spills. then comes the containment obligation to ensure that spill pellets do not leak to the environment. and thirdly, if pellets pollute the environment, the clean-up must be ensured. so the proposal covers operators that produce, store or convert plastic pellets into products, and eu and non-eu carriers transporting pellets by road, rail and inland waterways in the union. given the international nature of maritime transport, this sector was not included in the proposal, so the commission is, however, actively working at the international maritime organisation (imo) to tackle highly complex matter. the imo is examining the issue of plastic pellets transportation in containers intensively, notably on three aspects. so firstly, good quality packaging to withstand the shocks and handling normally encountered during transport. second, transport information to clearly identify those freight containers containing plastic pellets, and thirdly, safe storage to minimise the hazards to the marine environment. specifically, freight containers with plastic pellets should be stored under deck whenever possible or on board in sheltered areas of exposed decks. so we are determined, with the support of the member states, to speed up this work with the international maritime organisation and help take decisions. this would avoid ending up with a patchwork of different regional and national rules, and in particular, given that many containers are loaded onto ships in ports outside the eu. so it is important that these rules are agreed and adopted worldwide to be effective. at the same time, we are ready to consider the inclusion of further provisions in eu law on the basis of the developments at the international maritime organisation. so this could include a ban on the carriage of pellets in bulk, and also tighter rules on the quality of packaging and the transport of pellets in the main body of ships. in this way, we would already reduce the risk of pellets washing up on our beaches. protecting coastal and marine ecosystems is in the interests of all. the eu’s blue economy sectors including fisheries, aquaculture and coastal tourism are directly affected by plastic pellet pollution. so we need firm action by all parties involved, as sea waters are transboundary and this will require close cooperation among member states. despite our efforts, the sea remains unpredictable and at times a dangerous place to operate, so adverse weather conditions may unavoidably lead to catastrophic events. it is then that remediation solutions are necessary, so the commission will pursue the evaluation of the marine strategy framework directive, which already contains provisions to protect the marine environment against harm caused by litter. the environmental liability directive, which offers limited protection in this regard, will also be subject to evaluation. the commission will continue to contribute to the research guidance, promotion and support of best handling practice with a view to reducing any possible effects caused by plastic pellet losses. reducing microplastic pollution is also an objective of the eu mission ‘restore our ocean and waters’, which is developing and demonstrating innovative solutions to prevent, eliminate and monitor microplastics in our ocean and waters. finally, i would like to point out the new international instrument on plastic pollution that is currently being negotiated. let me stress the importance of including a legally binding provision to prevent release of plastics into the environment through the life cycle. i am confident that together, we will find the best way to deal with the current crisis and pave the way to preventing such crises in the future. this entails the rapid adoption of the proposal on plastic pellets, and i am sure that we are all united in our determination to do all we can to avert such ecological disasters.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, as we speak today, hundreds of workers and volunteers are working day and night to clean up those millions of plastic pellets that have washed up on their shores in galicia. they are doing so because they want to protect their environment, their fishing, their shellfish industry and their livelihoods in the tourism sector. they’re asking questions, such as: how did this happen? could it have been prevented? could the extent of the damage that we are seeing today have been reduced? why was there such a delay before they saw action and support from their government? what happened from the 8 december 2023 to 3 january 2024? why did it take so long for their regional government to be informed so that they could take action? they want to know what’s to be done at european level, to prevent, to minimise and to better coordinate a response to such a serious event in the future. it has to be noted that the company responsible for the transport of these pellets did act and inform as soon as they could. they will investigate how it happened and they will contribute to the clean—up. i am glad to see that the spanish public prosecutor has started an investigation. we must provide answers, but we must also give direction as to how such a scenario can be avoided or reduced in the future. this spillage has brought into focus the regulation on preventing microplastic pollution that’s currently being considered here in this parliament, a regulation that aims to see measures applied across the plastic industry chain to reduce pellet lost by up to 70%. i want to see the adoption of this report, a practical regulation that will be effective. we must act to prevent such spillages, we must commit to containing spillages and to reducing their impact in the environment, and we must have a coordinated clean—up response to help and support those vulnerable communities who suffer and bear the brunt of these environmental spills.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, mr commissioner, on my land, galicia, today we are facing a double tide: a plastic tide and a tide of incompetence, concealment and lies from the pp regional government, whose nefarious management has left town halls and citizens to their fate in the clean-up tasks. the xunta has spent weeks denying the importance of pollution, caused by microplastics, which is a key priority for the commission and also for the socialist group, which leads this initiative in the chamber. the pelets are not balls, as the community government says. they are an environmental and potential health risk that must be combated, as the commission and the spanish government do. plastic pollution must be tackled, and this problem that is now seen in galicia needs a strengthened european legislation, not concealment and lies as the popular party does. i would like to say that the commissioner has not been able to give us a clear answer to the question of the question of the commission's proposal. we will solve this by the galicians voting, in my case, for the best, for besteiro, but you have done a very bad management. you're not laughing, mrs. montserrat. they've done a very bad management since the xunta de galicia.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, unfortunately, the catastrophe that we see happening in galicia is just the tip of an enormous iceberg. the pollution of our sea with over a billion plastic pellets is a huge disaster for the environment, for marine animals and for local communities, but this disaster is not even 1% of the plastic pallets lost every single year. we need to stop this ongoing catastrophe. no one is gaining anything from unused plastic pellets, flakes or powders getting lost. it’s high time to give clear requirements to producers, handlers and carriers of plastic raw materials to make sure that plastic pellet losses are prevented and, if they happen, that they are reported and that there is a liability for those carriers and handlers. the commission has put forward a proposal that i very much welcome, and i am sure the parliament will make sure that this legislation will become even stronger and more waterproof. let’s not wait until more disasters are happening in galicia or elsewhere. let’s put an end to this wasteful handling of our very limited resources. let’s just not leave a plastic trace on our planet.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the beaches of galicia are affected by a spill of pellets. and you're just worried about getting election revenue. socialists are playing the game of environmental disaster, even though beaches are national public domain. the popular, playing the basis of a protoseparatism that is causing in galicia the detachment of the entire nation. the best thing you could do is pull each other out and spare us this gruesome show, because you guys care a lot about coastal protection. they like to talk about the planet and climate change, but protecting the coastal heritage starts at the local, on the beach, on the rivers, especially in forest cleaning. a healthy, patriotic and conservative human ecology. the real catastrophe is not the beach pellets, but the destruction of the spanish fishing sector, especially in galicia, which the people and socialists have promoted over the past forty years, systematically executing foreign agendas: relocation of production and processing industry to third countries, restrictions on fishing resulting from the extension of exclusive economic zones and abusive eu regulatory measures that have led galicia and the whole of spain from sufficiency to dependence. the effect of their measures has been devastating: reduction of the fishing fleet in european boats by more than 25% and a drop in catches by more than 21% in just ten years. loss of 20 000 jobs since 2004. destruction of 15% of the processing enterprises, ageing population and ageing fleet. and, meanwhile, imports from non-community countries have grown by 97 per cent in ten years. where did you come from? from his friends... from china and morocco. this is the real catastrophe and everyone covers up their shame. they've destroyed a thriving sector. and, although we are still the leading fishing fleet in all of europe, it is in sharp decline. so less pellets and more ships.
on behalf of the left group. mr. president, more than a month after the dumping of plastic pellets that today flood the beaches of galicia and other regions of the cantábrico, the xunta de galicia, governed by the popular party, continues to deny the gravity of the catastrophe. the same popular party that denies climate change and saw only a few plastic flakes in the prestige oil spill has said that pellets are not only not toxic, but they are edible. this is the level of irresponsibility and shame. the environmental emergency in galicia clearly indicates the need for ambitious european legislation to end the impunity of companies that refuse to take responsibility for waste and cleanliness and to require authorities to act immediately. we certainly need to protect the environment and our fishing sector. the spill on day eight is a disaster. what's happened since then is a negligence. never again.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, plastic pellets are one of the main sources of microplastic pollution: they are scattered in the air, in the water and in the ground. they live in our bodies and in the bodies of animals. the commission's ambitious target of reducing plastic emissions by 70% is an oxygen leak for our marine and land ecosystems which are suffocating under the weight of pollution. best practices for chain management, mandatory certifications, a harmonised methodology for monitoring and preventing microplastic pollution: these are the smart solutions that specifically set rules and tools for healthcare actors to use in the exclusive interest of health. health is one thing! a measure like this is not a drop in the sea, but a breath of life for many. this is the europe we need, this is the europe we want.
mr. president, gentlemen of the left... are you so nervous about another election defeat? look, to the spanish coast, and not only from galicia, are arriving pellets from a container. we could talk about the work that the xunta of galicia is doing, about the more than 350 people who are working on more than 55 beaches, about helicopters and boats in the sea. but they are not interested in this, because what the left wants to do is to win miserably in this crisis what it has been unable to win since the opposition. if instead of pellets was amnesty, and instead of rueda was puigdemont, you would already be acting without complaint, so quick to yield to the blackmail of a fugitive from justice, but so slow and irresponsible to shrug your shoulders in a crisis that affects everyone. galicia is acting. you do it at sea, that's your job. asking them for responsibility is too much, but if they are not capable, at least they abandon political opportunism, lying and manipulation.
mr president, 26 tonnes of small plastic particles are lost in the sea and on the coasts of galicia and asturias. these are tragic images of millions and millions of pelicans polluting our environment, and i want to send a word of support and gratitude to our brothers in galicia, who have spent days and days trying to clean up their precious beaches. the report, which i was able to prepare and present publicly to prevent microplastic pollution from pellets, aimed to improve the commission's proposal in three main areas. we've all seen that once lost in the environment, these plastics are very difficult to collect. all our efforts must therefore be directed to effective prevention measures that reduce or eliminate the loss of this material to the environment. this disaster also demonstrated the need to extend legislation to maritime transport regulation. the commissioner said that we should therefore increase pressure on the international maritime organization and seek effective measures for the european maritime area. finally, deterrent measures from the different operators of the value chain must be implemented effectively, including through a strengthening of sanction mechanisms. but let me be clear: no european citizen and certainly no one in galicia will understand if those responsible for these disasters are not also held accountable for the recovery of the affected ecosystems. finally, i call on the commission to ensure that this ecological disaster does not die on the beach. i hope that the unfortunate dimension of this tragedy can at least serve to raise the right's awareness of this issue. more ambitious and demanding prevention measures are not a mere whim, they are the solution to prevent the population of galicia from having to go through another traumatic event 21 years later. i hope to meet you on the right side of the story.
mr president, dearest commissioner, i have with me three different reports here, and they are all telling the same sad story. containers lost at sea are a huge problem. the catastrophe off the coast of portugal and spain actually involved six containers. what we see in the reports, it goes for the us vessel el faro and for the ever smart, is that the containers are usually stacked in a criminal way. in the future, with more storms you’re going to have more problems, more catastrophes, if we don’t get the vessels in order. the equipment is bad, the vessels are old and they are stacked in a way which is not according to the rules. so what you have on the top of a stack is a too-heavy container. when the ship starts rolling 20% to the left and to starboard and port, then you have it there. so we have to get the rules to work, and if we don’t get them, the catastrophes will be there.
mr president, as a member of the galician parliament, i called for this debate in the face of the environmental catastrophe of the pellet tide which is flooding the coast of my country, galicia. it is not just a galician problem, it is a european problem, as we discussed with you today, commissioner. december 8th was the accident. on the 13th, the first pellets arrive. on january 4, the galician government addresses the municipalities, almost a month later, to tell them that it was their responsibility to clean the beaches. faced with the inaction of the galician government, they had to clean up alone, feeling abandoned and overwhelmed. i take the opportunity to greet the mayor of muros, maría lago, who is on the podium, an example of dignity, along with the mayor of ribeira and the volunteers in the fight against this ecological tragedy. i would like to thank the members of the european parliament and the members of the five political groups for signing the letter we are sending you, commissioner. galicia is not alone. the galician government took a month to activate the anti-contamination plan and alert 2. this is a clear case of disaster denial. we must listen to the pp's gentlemen and ladies, who repeat slogans from galicia about improvisation, manipulation, neglect in management and lack of transparency. the pp government calls it plastic balls more than a thousand sacks of pellets that keep coming to our shores. i'm not doing them much good. what incompetence! galicia is a fishing nation with unique marine resources and biodiversity. this plastic pollution affects the marine environment and can certainly affect the way of life of the fisheries and seafood sector, to which i transfer all the support from bng. the pp government has been harming them for 14 years. that is hurting the fishing sector, pp gentlemen. don't come here trying to distract like you do on tvg. this sunday there is a demonstration in santiago with more than a hundred groups supporting it, including the fishing sector. but this mismanagement is not new. it reminds us of the prestige disaster. they haven't learned anything. his defachatez is such that the xunta commissioned a marketing company linked to the pp part of the cleaning of the pellets: you will be given a chalequin from the xunta and, if you want to collect the pellets, much better, they said. what the galician government does not do is we do here and we do it here, demanding that pellets be considered dangerous goods to avoid accidental losses and that they be considered pollutants in the new regulation on microplastic losses. (the speaker is speaking in an unofficial language). (the speaker agrees to answer a question asked in accordance with the blue card procedure.)
answer according to the blue card procedure. thank you so much for asking. the pp government in galicia, as you just said, took more than a month to ask for state help. i speak my own language. thank you so much. even today, we are still waiting. across galicia, there are 469 workers, hired by the galician government, cleaning 1,500 kilometers of coastline... don't interrupt me. i'm not going to be here. take a sip of the, yes, no, coffee liquor... rejecting the cleaning staff offered by the state government. thanks to the agreement with the insurance company, for example, the city council of muros has 100 workers cleaning the beaches. and i don't have the written answer, i have the data here, mrs. montserrat... (the president withdraws the word from the speaker)
mr president, to make things clear: on 18 february there are elections in galicia. it is a region of spain with a beautiful coastline that has now had a spill of pellets, as they are having the coasts of tarragona, in catalonia, continuously and that does not make us have a meeting of these here. don't worry, the title is absolutely wrong. there is no ecological catastrophe, there is a problem that must be solved, but it is another problem. what happens is that the spanish government, the socialist government, is taking a coup and then anything, anything, is good for you to talk about something else. he is giving an amnesty that yesterday they were told it was a coup d'état, that it is illegal what they are doing, they are dynamiting the spanish judiciary, but they prefer to look for ballots, that on some beaches it is easier to find two-euro coins than those pellets, those pellets that are the catastrophe. in that sense, the soft government of galicia had to devote much more to defending galicia, its coasts and to fighting agenda 2030, which is to blame for what is happening there.
in writing. on 8 december, the ship toconao, flying the flag of liberia, lost six containers loaded with plastic pellets off the coast of portugal. since then, 26 tonnes of pellets have reached the sea and the spanish coast, especially galicia. each year, about 160,000 tons of pellets and 12 million tons of various types of contaminated plastic enter our seas and oceans, contaminating our ecosystems. in the face of this disaster, it is necessary: first, governments that, unlike the pp led by the government of galicia, do not lie to their citizens and act to mitigate the consequences of the spills; second, to strengthen european legislation to prevent these spills. the s&d group is leading the negotiations to achieve an ambitious new regulation, which includes the obligation to restore the affected ecosystems when they are discharged, extends the scope of the prevention plans and covers all transport modes, including maritime. the epp must decide whether it is on the side of the polluting industry or on the side of those who suffer the consequences of pollution.
in writing. on 8 december, the ship toconao, flying the flag of liberia, lost six containers loaded with plastic pellets off the coast of portugal. since then, 26 tonnes of pellets have reached the sea and the spanish coast, especially galicia. each year, about 160,000 tons of pellets and 12 million tons of various types of contaminated plastic enter our seas and oceans, contaminating our ecosystems. in the face of this disaster, it is necessary: first, governments that, unlike the pp led by the government of galicia, do not lie to their citizens and act to mitigate the consequences of the spills; second, to strengthen european legislation to prevent these spills. the s&d group is leading the negotiations to achieve an ambitious new regulation, which includes the obligation to restore the affected ecosystems when they are discharged, extends the scope of the prevention plans and covers all transport modes, including maritime. the epp must decide whether it is on the side of the polluting industry or on the side of those who suffer the consequences of pollution.
madam president, this is an important issue because europeans are very experts in horse meat fraud. in fact, we uncovered one of the most serious food fraud scandals in 2013. so it's really good that we can control horse meat imports and the quality of horse meat, because we ourselves -- well, we didn't, our producers and some companies used horse meat illegally. so, it's really good. but you know what's going on? when i hear certain interventions, including the rapporteur's, it seems that the main point is to use a legitimate debate to ban imports of products that do not have traceability or comply with appropriate health standards to criticize other things, in this case mercosur. and it's paradoxical to see the glue between the greens, who then want the development of the least developed countries but want to curb their imports, and the far right, falsely defending farmers. the best way to defend farmers is to ensure that imports are of high quality and that the products we produce in europe are also of high quality.
madam president, president michel, vice-president šefčovič, i would like to highlight one topic that was not part of the speeches that you delivered, which is the institutional reforms and linking, as you know, president michel, the enlargement process with the political deepening of the eu. i encourage both of you, the commission, to come to our next plenary to present your communications on treaty changes that you are working on. also, i encourage president michel, please help us, putting the topic in the agenda of the next european council meeting in march so you can tackle the proposal that the european parliament has done on article 48 for treaty changes. because we really need, in our view, to get this important file done before the next european elections and the beginning of the next political cycle.
mr president, two years after putin invaded ukraine, from the subordination of europe to the united states to escalate this war, arming militarily and not pushing through negotiation processes because it was done by the ukrainians, are you better off today? is peace closer? - no, i'm not. there are thousands of lives that are being skewed, 15 million people dependent on humanitarian aid, there are four million displaced people in the country, six million refugees outside ukraine, a public debt of 90 percent, another with the imf of 70 percent of its gdp, total destruction of its infrastructure and an outdated political system with illegal parties. the consequences also reached europe: rising inflation, energy and food prices. but not everyone has lost in these two years: the united states has doubled its gas exports to europe, and is now the main supplier. its arms companies have made billions in profits and have managed to strengthen a nato in brain death. the european union and this parliament are also responsible for this, whose only response to the conflict has been to defend the interests of the united states and not the interests of europeans. that's enough. how long has this failed strategy been going on? until the united states gets the concession of the country's rebuilding companies? let us now push forward the diplomatic path and the negotiating spaces to build a just and lasting peace. there's no time to waste. (the speaker agrees to answer a question asked in accordance with the blue card procedure.)
blue card answer. mr bütikofer, we have condemned russia's illegal invasion of ukraine from the outset. a lie told often doesn't turn out to be true. but i will be very honest with you: what embarrasses me is the response that has been given by the european institutions and this european parliament, where we have been promised that our movements are for the ukrainians when all they have done is finance a war that is no longer on the front page of the media, which in six months time will disappear from all newspapers, but where millions of people will continue to be displaced with a country completely destroyed. the european union has not defended european interests here, so it is time to bet on a just and lasting peace.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, our position is very clear: we are for new genomic techniques, but not under any conditions. for the new genomic techniques, because we want to bring a new solution to farmers facing new challenges: reduce plant health products, pesticides, and adapt to climate change. but we're not for any condition. for example, we are not in favour of the fact that a product can be a new genomic technique if it is associated with an herbicide, because this is typically the model of gmos, which we do not want. and that is exactly what we have done in parliament's work, namely eliminating this possibility, which was opened up by the commission's initial text. we have also further relayed the opportunity of new genomic techniques with the objectives of the green pact for europe: to ensure that these new techniques are authorised if and only if they serve the objectives we set ourselves in the green pact. for example, to adapt more easily to the effects of climate change, which threaten farmers' yields and thus incomes, and to move more towards less dependence on plant health products and pesticides. this is the model we are defending. i am surprised to see that on the left there is a rejection of technology-based solutions. on the right, there is the rejection of natural solutions. the reality, my colleagues, is that we need both, and that is why we are both for the law on the restoration of nature and for the law on new genomic techniques.
i would like to ask the commissioner to do something about this. so you want austria to ban gmo-free production? it is a good idea to have a country that is 100% gmo free, conventional and biological. so you want to contaminate organic farming with genetic engineering? it is a method of production that works as naturally as possible. and genetic engineering is probably the opposite of nature. so you don't want to apply your own precautionary principle here and just give permits without checking for health or environmental concerns. and you want to introduce an authorization that, once granted, even if problems arise, can no longer be withdrawn. they are providing the big multinational companies with an open door to patenting virtually any breeding, whether with or without genetic engineering. i wonder, do you really listen to the citizens? and you want to abolish food labelling? yes, because citizens didn't want to buy these products. well, then we'll just stop writing where the genetic engineering is inside, and they'll buy it. count on our resistance! (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you for asking me this question. you have publicly stated that this is a fraud of consumers who will not know what breeding practices have been used to produce specific crops. but that's not true. you know very well that the seed will be registered. it will be possible to find out how the crop was grown and this registration will be completely obvious. i want to ask you if you are aware that this is the content of the legislation, so it is not true that there will be no traceable origin of the crop.
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. mrs šojdrová, first of all i have referred to products in the supermarket and not to the question of seed labelling. and secondly, it is not my opinion, but that of the european court of justice. in 2018, the ruling: new genomic techniques are also genetically engineered organisms. read the judgment of the european court of justice, and you will learn what the realities are like.
thank you for your answer. i need to clarify that my colleague accepted the blue card. he could have refused. so it is up to everyone to request a blue card and to the colleagues to decide whether or not to answer. i think i've been clear.
madam president, the new genomic techniques are a great opportunity for farmers to improve productivity and increase crop yields. they can reduce the need for pesticides and other chemical treatments, which not only helps to reduce costs but also to reduce environmental impacts. the promising future of new genomic techniques is not without challenges, and one of them is to get them not only in the hands of big biotech companies, but to be able to get them to most farmers. ultimately, the development of these new genomic techniques and the adaptation of european legislation to differentiate them from traditional gmos will not only result in immediate economic improvements for the farms incorporating them, but will also pave the way for more sustainable and efficient farming in the long term.
- madam president, please! farming is a big challenge because it has to feed more and more people. climate change is the cause of new diseases, new pests. there's more and more dry weather. agriculture has been looking for answers for centuries in the field of genetics, and with new genomic techniques, we want to give scientists the ability to speed up processes that happen in nature. what we can do with procedures in the 1930s, 40s, we can do with new genomic techniques in five years. so we need to support these genome techniques and give agriculture that opportunity. these techniques are ultimately agreed by 37 nobel laureates, 1500 experts who support and advocate that these techniques be introduced and give european agriculture the same opportunities or opportunities as the world has, or we will be condemned to import food from elsewhere where these techniques are used. i also support the exemption of organic farming from this regulation.
mrs president, our farmers and our farmers have given us an essential message: they want to live with dignity in their work and refuse to be the mere instruments of multinational corporations that are only interested in their own profit. thus, opting for the adoption of the ntgs would not only be a betrayal of them but also a direct threat to the diversity and vitality of our territories. farmers and farmers have established a relationship with our environment and have created unique and diverse crops and food. the introduction of ntgs risks breaking this already fragile link by encouraging a uniformity orchestrated by external actors disconnected from local realities. these large-scale genetic techniques threaten local seed farmers and go against the very wishes of farmers not to be reduced to mere workings in multinational machinery. adopting the ntgs means abandoning the vision of farming the territories in the service of men, women and food security and autonomy.
madam president, for some, the ecological transition in europe is a legislative goal: demands, restrictions and prohibitions on the productive sectors, which must be adapted on their own and at their own risk and by legal imperative. on the contrary, we believe that the ecological transition is not imposed, but is encouraged and facilitated. it is encouraged with additional funding to enable farmers and ranchers to undertake the necessary transformations, and it is facilitated with technical resources, technology and innovation, such as the new genomic techniques we approved this week. it is impossible to achieve higher quality quotas with fewer resources unless we multiply the innovation available to our farmers. this type of progress will enable us to ensure the future and sustainability of the european agri-food sector against its international competitors.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much, and may i also thank all the members of this esteemed house for their thoughts, for their comments, for their feedback, occasional compliments, and solicited and less solicited advice or criticism. i did sense, though, that there is significant support for the direction of travel. if you allow me, mr president, i would want to make four departing comments, also listening to the speakers. one is – and let me be clear on that one more time – that this is a direction of travel. this is a dot on the horizon. it is the start of the dialogue rather than the point of destination. i’m saying that because some of the members of parliament have actually expressed the things that they think should have been in there. but actually, in my view, that needs to be part of the dialogue that we’re going to have, not only with parliament but also with others in our societies. so that is one. secondly, i want to stress – ms bentele and mr liese have mentioned that – the tremendous importance of doing a lot of stuff here at home in europe, but also working tirelessly on the 93 % of emissions that do take place outside of our continent. therefore, climate diplomacy, and in particular diplomacy related to carbon markets, is of essential importance. i very much concur with what they said. third, the point made by, um, mr canfin and a couple of others about the geopolitics. i’m very much aligned with all those that say – and i’ve stressed it in the beginning myself – that we need to marry climate action with competitiveness, a level playing field and a just transition. i think we all agree on that. but i think it was extremely important that they mentioned the international dimension and the link to strategic autonomy as well, because that is unfortunately the world we live in, and it is something we do need to take into account moving forward. finally, there were a couple of comments on ccs. what i would want to say there is that i would want to invite everyone to move beyond, let’s say, ideological positions. i will be the first to continue to stress that there is no alternative for driving down emissions. as i’ve said before, and i’m gladly going to repeat it, we cannot ccs ourselves out of the problem. that is one part. i will stress that to everyone who says that actually ccs will magically solve this. to the others who look at ccs with maybe distrust, i would articulate that it is part of the solution, particularly for the hardest-to-abate sectors, and therefore we also need to embrace this as part of the solution space, even though we know it is only a relatively small proportion of the equation. finally, linked to that, just to clarify, the 400 number that is in the communication is not just css, it is also land-based removals. i think that is important and maybe at least to some degree satisfactory to those who are worried in this domain. mr president, thank you very much and thanks very much to the meps taking part in this debate and all the different other actors that already have given input. i’m very much looking forward to continuing the conversation with each and every one of you.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
the spanish socialist delegation welcomes the proposal from the european commission to reduce eu greenhouse gas emissions by 90% by 2040 from 1990 levels. we spanish socialists believe that this new climate objective strengthens the eu's credibility in the fight against climate change, while reaffirming our commitment to the paris agreement and to the goal of being climate neutral by 2050. we believe that an ambitious goal for 2040 is not just an ambition, but a necessity. the commission proposal is key to the climate policy for the coming years, and it is a clear signal to our economies, industries and societies that we need to accelerate our transition towards a low-carbon economy. this is crucial not only to meet climate targets but also to ensure a more sustainable, healthy and resilient future for europe and the world.
the spanish socialist delegation welcomes the proposal from the european commission to reduce eu greenhouse gas emissions by 90% by 2040 from 1990 levels. we spanish socialists believe that this new climate objective strengthens the eu's credibility in the fight against climate change, while reaffirming our commitment to the paris agreement and to the goal of being climate neutral by 2050. we believe that an ambitious goal for 2040 is not just an ambition, but a necessity. the commission proposal is key to the climate policy for the coming years, and it is a clear signal to our economies, industries and societies that we need to accelerate our transition towards a low-carbon economy. this is crucial not only to meet climate targets but also to ensure a more sustainable, healthy and resilient future for europe and the world.
written. i thank the commission for its proposal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 90% by 2040 compared to 1990 levels. this career would ensure climate neutrality by 2050. a goal is hard, but it's possible to achieve. the commission has now clearly taken a more balanced and technologically neutral approach to reducing emissions. it is good that previously neglected technologies, such as nuclear power and carbon capture and storage solutions, are now listed for the first time as equal emission reduction tools alongside renewables. in particular, the importance of biogas and biomethane in reducing transport emissions has also been taken into account. this makes sense, because these are effective technologies for a cleaner future. these are the things we want to invest in europe now. the presentations will increase confidence that the green transition can now be put on track. as important as reducing emissions are, green transition laws have been introduced at eu level in recent years at a record pace and their overlapping and cross-cutting effects, administrative burden or economic efficiency have not always been properly assessed. the next major task is to improve the course of the green transition and ensure that not only green development but also economic and social sustainability is ensured.
the next item on the agenda is the commission's declaration - the water and drought crisis in the eu as a consequence of the global climate crisis and the need for a sustainable and resilient strategy for europe [2024/2561(rsp) ]. i shall give the floor to the european commission in the person of commissioner virginijus sinkevičius.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me welcome the strong involvement and frequent debates of the parliament on the topic of water. it is a vital issue because five of the last six years in europe have been exceptionally dry, and this has caused significant economic damage to agriculture, energy and inland navigation worth some eur 9 billion every year, and the latest climate projections suggest that, in the extreme scenario of 3°c of warming, the resulting damage could cost up to eur 40 billion per year. the water emergency in parts of spain and other parts of the eu is a particular cause of concern, but water scarcity is no longer confined to the mediterranean region. more and more regions of europe, including even rainy regions like flanders, now face similar problems, and this new normal includes prolonged droughts followed by devastating floods, sometimes in the same region. in the face of these changes, we need a different approach. we need to work towards a water-resilient europe, a europe better equipped to adapt to the water challenges of today and tomorrow, leaving no one behind. this entails a systemic transformation of the way water is managed, used and valued, while always bearing in mind the need to protect nature and ecosystems. this is also a precondition for the union’s strategic autonomy and its green transition in relation to affordable energy, food security, industrial production and intergenerational fairness. this is one reason why, as announced by president von der leyen, the commission is putting forward a water resilience initiative in march. the initiative will combine a series of immediate actions with the launch of a broad, transparent public debate that will involve eu institutions, member states and all relevant stakeholders such as local and regional authorities, the private sector, ngos, academia and citizens at large. we know where additional action is needed: the eu has already delivered robust water legislation. if it were respected in full, many elements of the current crisis would be far less pressing. better implementation of the eu acquis is therefore a top priority. a lot has been done under this mandate to spur further action, improving water quality and water ecosystems, and in particular throughout the biodiversity strategy and the zero pollution action plan. today, too often we tend to address water scarcity and drought through ad-hoc emergency measures. we need to move to more systemic advanced planning of drought risk reduction. currently, only 14 member states have drawn up proper drought management plans, while droughts occur in every eu member state. in addition to better planning, we also need more accurate data. that is why the commission founded the european drought observatory in 2009 to systematically collect data on water scarcity. last november, the observatory published a pan-european drought risk atlas and a pan-european drought impact database, and these new databases map future drought risk and make predictions region by region. however, we need to do more: we need to realise that water quantity and water quality are two sides of the same coin. success will depend on tackling head on all the pressures faced by our vulnerable water resources, and that means tackling pollution at source, it means reducing the over-abstraction and over-allocation of water. it means safeguarding minimum ecological flows in our rivers, allowing them to provide the ecosystem services that we rely on. it also means combating illegal abstraction with full deployment of technological solutions. we also need to ensure that heavy water users, like the digital and energy sectors, internalise water efficiency and water protection. it also requires more rigorous application of the ‘cost recovery’ principle with water pricing policies based on the ‘polluter pays’ principle. this will incentivise water savings and pollution prevention measures while ensuring it remains affordable to all. in all cases, we should start with efforts to reduce demand. before looking for fresh supplies, we should start with water efficiency, mirroring the ‘efficiency first’ principle for energy, which now guides business decisions and investments. this is fully in line with the circular economy approach: our collective focus should begin with stimulating water efficiency and water reuse across the lifecycle of processes and products. leakages and drinking water supply systems must also be addressed. across the eu, an average of 23 % of treated water is now lost during distribution, and with the new obligations in the recast drinking water directive, member states have the tools they need to assess leakage rates and develop targeted actions to reduce the losses. the proposal for a recast urban wastewater treatment directive encourages the reuse of treated wastewater in agriculture, and that should receive an additional boost from the recent entry into application of the water reuse regulation, helping limit freshwater abstraction from surface and groundwater bodies. but legislation alone will not solve these problems, and exit from the crisis will require firm action on many sides, and for that we also need to scale up and upgrade our investment in water. in the current financial period, the european union has significantly increased its support to help co-fund water-related infrastructure through instruments like the erdf and rrf. adapting to the likely scenario of future water scarcity is the smartest economic move, and if we fail to act today, the cost of inaction will be far higher in the future. adaptation is essential, but we must remain equally committed to climate mitigation. you just had a debate, so today the commission launched the dialogue to establish an interim 2040 climate target, setting the eu firmly on a path towards climate neutrality by 2050. honourable members, let me conclude by highlighting once again the importance of sustainable, resilient water management and of protecting the quality and quantity of fresh water. by increasing the resilience of our water system and the sectors that rely on it, we move away from crisis management and we move towards the proactive management of risks, and that’s the best way to help our citizens today, that’s the best way to help our farmers, and that’s the best way to minimise the risk for the water-stressed citizens for tomorrow.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, drought is no longer a phenomenon confined to summer and mediterranean europe. today, 6 february, in the middle of winter, several regions of spain are already suffering drought and fear for the summer to come; even the wettest countries in europe, such as belgium, faced a severe drought last year. we can therefore no longer speak of drought episodes but of a real water crisis of european dimension. the scarcity of this resource is causing multibillion dollar losses in companies in various sectors, job losses and even consumption restrictions. there are areas particularly affected - such as andalusia, the region of murcia or the mediterranean basin of spain - which are in drought alert and need immediate action. to prevent the water crisis from getting worse, it is essential that we continue to work to combat climate change, but also that we continue to invest in adaptation, which we invest in water infrastructure and transport. yes, even in transport, because millions of jobs and the prosperity of some of the regions of southern europe depend on it. water solidarity is an essential component of european solidarity, and the effects of climate change will make it even more necessary in the coming decades. i therefore believe that we should start to put water stress as one of the criteria to be taken into account in order to focus european solidarity and, more specifically, as one of the criteria when allocating the different european funds. the impact of drought on european economies and their population is therefore too serious to be included in our calculations and financial balance and we must do so as soon as possible if we do not want to open an insurmountable gap between dry europe and wet europe. it's fair.
mr president, the objective of a sustainable water strategy should be to reduce water use, clean up water and improve the sustainability of water resources. water reuse and rainwater collection should also be promoted. the water crisis requires extensive cooperation at all levels. each of us has a role to play in achieving these goals. as consumers, we can make choices that reduce water consumption. companies can adopt more sustainable production methods. governments and international organisations can create policies and programmes to promote sustainable use and protection of water. water is the basic condition of life. the water crisis thus affects everyone and requires joint action to resolve it. the eu alone cannot solve the world's problems, but it is our responsibility to ensure sustainable water use with our own input.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, water policy is more than ever needed in response to the drought in several regions of france and europe. in agriculture, it must in particular enable water reservoirs to be built wherever drought threatens. when properly designed, water retention facilities allow water to be drawn from the water table in the winter, at a time when it can be reconstituted to water crops in the summer. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the basis of the information provided by the commission. water retention is precisely a solution to satisfy each other without harming the other. a 2022 brgm report on a project in the two sierves is encouraging in this regard. of course, water policy must also promote other measures, such as better adaptation of crops and agronomic practices to the climate. water retention is essential, but it is not a miracle solution in itself.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, water is life and it is a strategic raw material, so we have to address its availability. even though the water on earth is not depleted, its quality and availability are still changing. the european commission notes that it expects further deterioration in the availability of water resources. it is true that the european commission is monitoring, and i want to ask the commissioner whether it is coordinating monitoring with the member states. in the czech republic, we have a very well-functioning intersucho project, which constantly informs about water availability, soil saturation and is very well used by farmers. farmers are very affected by drought. billions of dollars are lost in drought, especially for crops that depend on water in the summer season cereals, corn. so what am i missing? what was not mentioned here? is there a solution? what can we do? water conservation in the landscape is a fundamental issue not only for farmers but also for us, for citizens. and then the reaction of new technologies. we will vote tomorrow on new genomic techniques that can help farmers overcome these impacts.
mr president, commissioner, the water crisis and drought in the european union are not new. in the last three decades, 30% of the population of the european union is being affected by water scarcity. 30% of all europe. the situation is only getting worse. gentlemen, each person needs two litres of water to meet his vital needs and 3,000 litres of water to feed. that's the reality. i therefore believe that irrigation is essential in agriculture and i support it. i'm from southern spain, andalusia, where it's having a big impact. irrigation is necessary, but perhaps with another model of water circulation. spain is one of the countries most affected. the scarcity of water resources threatens not only agriculture but also the energy sector. we need a fundamental change in policies now. commissioner, you announced that water resilience strategy to us in march. we need immediate action for the next few years. we cannot give up farming in my country.
mr president, we are suffering the worst drought in catalonia since we have records. today it would take nine months of rain to recover the reserves found in the internal basins by 16%. if the rain doesn't fall from the sky, we can't stand looking up at the sky. and that is why the government of the generalitat has been taking measures for two years, since we were still at 70% reserves, doing a surgical management of the little water available and speeding up infrastructure works to optimize the water cycle, betting on desalination and regeneration. for months we have been, to a large extent, using water that has not rained. citizens in general, but also economic activities and, in particular, farmers and ranchers have been making a major savings effort. but all of this has not been enough. we will have to keep saving, optimizing and investing in new infrastructure. today, catalonia suffers the most from drought. yesterday was portugal. tomorrow it will be another country in the european union. the effects of climate change are there and this emergency requires both a long-term view but also immediate action and european solidarity and support.
mr president, europe is burning with damage to the primary sector. the water crisis is what has triggered their climate policies: zero investment in storage and sewerage, more demolition of dams and reservoirs. in spain there is enough water to cover the needs of the spanish people, but we have two obstacles: the obscene spectacle of separatists who have not made an investment in water policies and now weep over drought and the climate fanaticism that criminalizes the farmers of murcia, almeria or huelva, blaming them for the ills of the planet. using the waters of the guadiana river, in the 1960s the badajoz plan converted 100 000 hectares of dry land into irrigation, increased water and electricity generation reserves, built up to 40 new settlement towns and promoted the processing and export of agricultural products. that's the way: reservoirs, sewerage and hydraulic connections; storing, channeling and flooding our fields with water, creating wealth and fixing population. you want us poor and defeated, even though nothing will be the same. a single cry is heard throughout europe: abolish the green pact and beard the socialist and popular politicians.
mr president, spain is the second most water-stressed european country. 75 percent of our territory is threatened with desertification and 44 percent of our aquifers are degraded by over-exploitation or pollution. we have been suffering a long-term drought since december 2022. today catalonia is experiencing the worst drought ever recorded after forty months without rain and regions like andalusia or extremadura - which is my home - are travelling a similar path. we must take measures that go beyond efficiency, savings and new infrastructure. and above all, we cannot ask people to consume less water and farmers to lose their crops while water is privatized, irrigation and intensive crops proliferate, illegal wells are allowed and lithium mines are being wagered that desertify the territory. we want a european strategy that changes the production model and guarantees the human right to water. finally, give it a little bit of enthusiasm, consistency and common sense, because people are tired of blowing up the pockets of those who leave us without resources. it is no wonder that many farmers are blocking the streets with their tractors today.
mr president, it is clear that droughts are, unfortunately, becoming more frequent because of climate change. so, without a doubt, our first weapon, the highest priority for fighting droughts, is precisely to maintain, or even increase, all our efforts in the fight against climate change. but in the meantime we must do other things: certainly increase the amount of water we reuse, purify; improve the efficiency of irrigation; increase desalination. my country, spain, is a leading player in desalination. i hope, commissioner, that you will include them in this water resilience strategy. in spain we just made the júcar-vinalopó crossing. we are also making transfers from the tagus basin to the segura and even... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker)
mr president, mr schinas, it is very sad that we have to be here today, once again, to talk about the interference of foreign autocracies in the european parliament. after the shame caused by the qatargate, we are now accumulated with the journalistic and judicial investigations that point to members of this house for conspiring with the kremlin. vladimir putin is not only a threat to the european union, with bombs at our border gates, but he wants to blow up our democracy from within. it happened with brexit, it happened during the coup d'état of separatism in catalonia and it's happening here now, in the house of european democracy. same objectives, in some cases, the same protagonists. and today, although i am not in this debate by chance, i tell mr puigdemont: everything will be known. and collaborating with the russian regime from your seat isn't going to come out of nowhere. and the gravity of this issue forces us to get to the end, fall who falls. unfortunately, some are more quick to amnestie these crimes in exchange for votes than to investigate them. i therefore tell the european socialists not to be mistaken, that some members of their group were involved in the qatargate may be a coincidence, but that their whole group votes against condemning the russiagate by name and surname would be a shame. open your eyes. they are not under pressure from their spanish colleagues, because this is not a national issue, it is a european one. or see if in the next term the partners that no one can trust will be you.
mr president, colleagues, last june we had a lengthy debate in this house on undue foreign influence and how to combat it. now this debate has become more and more tangible. an mep is suspected of acting on behalf of foreign powers, and this matter will be thoroughly investigated by the bodies of this house and, hopefully, also by the national judicial authorities. we should not be naive. the european parliament is not a zone free of espionage, and it is not excluded that a foreign-power agent enters parliament wearing the parliament’s badge. so we must tackle this. the meps’ free mandate is not meant to harm the eu, and the immunity of the mep is not any kind of get-out-of-jail-free card if breaking rules and the law. so we need a tool pack, and i’m afraid that our tool pack is perhaps not quite sufficient to respond to these challenges. we must work better with the national authorities, intelligence services, and olaf and eppo. we must do more.
it is difficult to deliver my prepared speech now after the statement of tatjana ždanoka. honestly speaking, with my whole life story starting from early youth involving fighting against communism, and then against all traces of malign influence, direct or indirect, by russia or any other malign actor against not only my people, but all people who had previously been intimidated by the soviet union and then the russian federation. for people of my experience, it is not a problem to assess who is who in international bodies. although counter intelligence belongs to the member states, it should be done and it should be treated seriously. i would like to praise many people in my country, poland, for exposing russian influence. honestly speaking, freedom of speech has no prevailing position in term in terms of security, in particular when we have the war of aggression just at our doorstep, because the war on ukraine has increased this influence. honestly speaking, it’s not only the left or the right, because many names are simply from the mainstream politics of european union. we have to get rid of this malign influence.
mr president, russia is seeking to destabilize the union, indeed. for that, putin has sought allies inside. and he has found them: not only orbán, but also the far-right parties in various countries of western europe. who has ever made dangerous friendships with the putin regime? the european sceptics, those who, from within the union, fight the european integration project. but instead, we have heard accusations related to catalonia again. false, you know, it's all false. catalan independence has no ties to russia and is not anti-european. on the contrary, we have always hoped for a more integrated union, because what we are looking for in a catalan state within the union is not against the union. in fact, it is thanks to the european courts that we can make politics from exile. putin's alliances may destabilize the union, but what is certain to destabilize it is that there are parties that use defamation and lies to attack their political rivals. and the worst part is that there are judges to protect them. that's enough. enough of the slander. enough of lawfare. without fair justice there is no rule of law and no democracy. and the european project will be impossible.
mr president, mr vice-president schinas, there are now not only suspicions about russian interference in the independence process against the law in catalonia, but we are facing the first evidence investigated by a spanish judge and published by the media. there has even been a suspected russian spy sitting in this chamber, a latvian mep with strong links to catalan independence. and what's the surprise? that in spain the sanchez government is not only willing to pardon all serious crimes of terrorism, corruption and even treason for ties with russia, but instead of supporting spanish judges, it allows its ministers to point out to them and to be slandered, threatened and accused of lawmaking in the spanish parliament. and all with the accomplices' silence of sanchez. the spaniards expect nothing from the sanchez government. moreover, we have moved from the meetings of putin's envoys with puigdemont's in spain to the secret meetings of sanchez with the fugitive puigdemont outside the european union. the fugitive started with the support of the kremlin and has ended with that of the spanish government to demolish the foundations of democracy in spain and europe. we therefore demand that all european institutions and national governments investigate all putin's murky connections in spain and europe to the end. because let's not be fooled, the russian space is the number one public enemy in europe.
mr president, mr commissioner, dear colleagues, as we approach the end of our parliamentary term, i believe we learned many lessons while witnessing historical events. our geopolitical environment is very different than 2019 and naivety should disappear for good. russia, but not only russia, is conducting different schemes to exert influence and to interfere in our political processes. european union institutions are under frequent threat, particularly our democratically elected body. the kremlin has perfected a cheap tool that allows it to strengthen other authoritarian regimes, amplify illiberal voices in full-fledged democracies, poison information ecosystems and undermine elections and other democratic institutions. putin counted and still counts not only on the army in uniforms, but also on the army without uniforms. whether it’s about money, ideology or particular interest, their work undermines the european union and poses an increasing security threat. that is why we need to do more to protect our democracy and integrity of the european union. focus should be on fostering democratic resilience. definitely the work of the inge committee, of which i was a proud member, needs to be continued in the next mandate as these issues will not go away. on the contrary, we can expect the unexpected. that is the reason why we have to be particularly cautious. the european union elections are in four months and that’s the next big challenge to address.
the president of the meeting, the minister, the member of the commission. the authoritarian hand of russia had reached not only the pockets of europe, influencing energy prices for a long time, but also the worldview, by imposing fabricated narratives and acting from within. the unstable kremlin will never give up, will seek to maintain its influence, will continue to spread euroscepticism and euro-war. the doors of the european parliament must be closed to the agents of russia and other authoritarian regimes and their supporters. we must strengthen our democratic resilience and prevent dangerous foreign interference and influence. we must understand that democracy itself has no ability to protect itself from hostile forces operating from within, or very little power. our response must therefore prevent actors like mr vdanoka from taking responsible public positions and from harming the common european interest. dear colleagues, let us also finally silence the voice of moscow, which is still available to citizens of the european union through russia today and sputnik. these are the threats that weaken the resilience of our societies.
madam president, today we know that latvian parliamentarian tatiana ždanoka is a spy for the fsb and putin's secret services. she has been very active in my homeland, spain. we know today that, a few years before the criminal invasion of ukraine, putin participated in another brutal attack on a european country, this one a member of the eu and nato: he participated in a coup d'état in spain, in the region of catalonia. that separatist coup failed. the headman has fled and, since that crime, he is ashamed of this house. he's usually sitting there, up there with his presence. his name is carlos puigdemont. today we know that putin promised him mercenaries and money to destroy the oldest nation on the continent, spain. in return, it would get russia's penetration into the european financial system and a bridgehead to make the pinch from the west with its subversive war against europe. now puigdemont is a protege of the head of the spanish government, sanchez, who needs him to stay in power illegally. ždanoka, spy from russia; puigdemont, high treason to spain and europe, and his impunity shows europe's vulnerability.
- the chairman of the meeting. russia's influence in europe and the west is not new to anyone. the russian special services have a great interest in what is happening in the european union and are constantly looking for ways to influence different processes, to break up the european union. one of the main channels of influence is the russian communities in different european countries. politicians who fight for these interests are an easy catch for the special services. the links published by the investigative press last week between member of the european parliament tatjana ždanoka and the fsb do not come as a surprise to me. i'd be surprised if there weren't those connections. together with his fellow fighters in this parliament, zhdanoka has done everything possible to promote russia's national interests in her home country and in the european union. the russian interests in this house are not limited to one poor person. people who have been calling out the russian national interests from this same field are on both the left and right. our task is to stand up for the interests of european citizens because we are elected by european citizens. it is not in the interests of european citizens to build a new world or to rebuild an empire. i hope the case of ždanoka will help us to open our eyes and see more clearly the dangers we face here every day.
madam president, the objective of russian political pressure is crystal clear to divide and weaken the european union, to make it ineffective, to make it rife with conflict and disagreement. the example topics that russia is working on and seeking to disintegrate by spreading disinformation are many - economics, migration, energy, social and family issues, history, regional conflicts like catalonia, north macedonia, bulgaria, serbia, kosovo, brexit and many, many others. the lack of effective decommunization of the education system and the public environment in eastern europe makes russia's influence in these countries much easier. democracy needs an effective immune system to protect itself from these harmful influences. mr. commissioner, i think that only with the combined efforts of national governments and european institutions can we protect ourselves and be successful in protecting ourselves from russian harmful influence.
madam president, the plot that connects catalan secessionism with putin seems to be taken from a spy novel. but unfortunately, this is not fiction, but facts that are confronted and investigated by justice. the meeting of puigdemont with a kremlin envoy is being investigated just 24 hours before the failed declaration of independence. explosive transportation in catalonia by moscow spies is being investigated days after the illegal referendum. and they are investigating kremlin offers to secessionism, such as the liquidation of catalonia's debt, cryptocurrency payments to finance a hypothetical independent republic or even the deployment of 10,000 russian troops in barcelona. all this to make catalonia a satellite of russia in the heart of europe. and in this plot, puigdemont was, in leninist terminology, putin's useful fool. but a useful fool who poses a grave danger to the unity and security of all europe. we must therefore remain vigilant and isolate all those who seek a weak and fragmented europe.
the european external assessment service's working group, the honourable chairs, honourable commissioners, colleagues and colleagues, has collected, analysed and exposed nearly 16 500 misinformation in the last nine years. the findings suggest that russia remains the primary source of such campaigns, especially those justified by its aggression against ukraine. this document that we witness today and that we have seen is proof that all we have in politics is morality and integrity. these colleagues don't have it. it's the political bottom of the bottom. these are people without morals, these are people working for the aggressor and russian propaganda. there is, quite clearly, an army of disinformation workers spreading the negative impact of the eu, and our response must be to improve cyber defence, ensure transparency in the election process and raise awareness. and let's not forget, the inge board has done a great job and i think its work must continue.
madam president, we must at least congratulate ourselves, because the russian intervention strategy is becoming clearer. this should be the end of innocence. it is clear that this is a continuous strategy, sustained over time, financed with a huge amount of money and highly specialized human resources. we are clear that russia seeks to destabilize the european union, to discredit its institutions, to pollute public debate. it seeks to break the territorial integrity of the states: deputies of this chamber, associated with the russian intelligence services, work in a concerted work of agitation and propaganda in the purest soviet tradition, deputies of this chamber feed homophobic and anti-western garbage that comes out of russia today and sputnik, deputies of this chamber have dealt with russian representatives on the best way to attack against the territorial integrity of spain. it is a moral and political duty to denounce before this house that, while we are debating how to deal with russian interference and its attempts at destabilization, in my country, in spain, an amnesty law will prevent and close the ongoing judicial investigation into russian involvement in the secession attempt on catalonia in october 2017. it is clear that in spain not only mr puigdemont is to be pardoned, but that mr sánchez is also to pardon mr putin.
madam president, last week, investigations by the press and the judiciary pointed to two members of this house for their possible links to putin's russia: mrs ždanoka, for being a possible spy, and mr puigdemont, absent, fugitive from justice, for his links to the kremlin. if we don't want putin's trojan horses in this house, what we have to do is investigate; investigate so that someone can prosecute and accuse. what you can't do is amnestie. what cannot be done is to amnestie judicial investigations so as not to expose a russian plot in one of the countries of the european union, such as spain. i ask the commissioner and the commission to be very attentive to this, because, by amnesty for mr puigdemont, the investigation into one of the most important russian plots in europe is being amnesty. will this parliament allow this? will this commission allow the president of a member state, mr pedro sánchez, to amnesty one of the kremlin's tentacles by seven votes? i hope not.
on behalf of the s&d group. mrs president, commissioner schmit, i would like to begin with three stories which are unfortunately no exception. julia: three years on a scholarship until she got her first job. leo: two years of internship, the first of them without pay. and martina: a scholarship holder in a company with 50% of its staff covered by trainees. they all have something in common: they are part of the 52% of young people who have had to work for more than one period before getting their first job. it seems a lie that we have understood the importance of ensuring decent conditions when there is a middle-of-the-road employment contract, but that we have looked the other way for so long when it comes to practicing. let us leave behind the myth of the scholar who only serves coffee or makes photocopies, because it is a concept of the past that became obsolete at the time when the labour force of young people began to be used to cover structural jobs at zero cost. i therefore call on the european commission and in particular on president von der leyen to keep their promise and to propose as soon as possible a directive regulating the quality of practice and ending the exploitation of young people in europe, as this parliament requested last june. i have no doubt about commissioner schmit's commitment because the socialists have been and are the promoters of a law prohibiting unpaid work at european level, and we will continue to fight for it. i therefore repeat my request to the president of the european commission. it is not that it is time for this directive to come, but we are already late in introducing a directive that will fill the legal vacuum that has allowed for decades to have false apprentices without pay, without rights and without a future. enough of the precariousness.
mr president, we had the same debate eight months ago in june. and when i look around the room, there are the same people who were sitting here. there was agnes, there was alicia, there was joão, there was brando, there was atizh, there was sean, all of these same people, all of them, we're still talking about the same thing, how we want to support young people in the european union, and that internships are not a substitute for jobs, and that internships should not be exploited and abused by companies to do the work that traditional employees should do. so i think it's really time, after years of talking about internships being paid and these people really being protected, these young people entering the labour market, it's really time for the european union to finally do something to ban internships that are not paid. and i'm very sorry that it's not only institutions within the european union, but also some national institutions that still use internships that are free, because they're really young people who are finishing their education, wanting to get into the job market, and often it requires some kind of internship practice to really not put these people in a situation where they still have to pay for their own family budgets to be able to work somewhere. it's really unacceptable in the 21st century, and i want to congratulate commissioner schmit on his nomination for the socialist leadership and i believe you will win.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. we live in a time of labour shortages and a rapidly changing attitude towards work. but it also means that young people who work hard, who do more than they absolutely have to, who go the famous extreme mile, can also do a lot for themselves and for society. and of course they deserve a decent wage for it. the fact is that interns are not yet fully engaged in the work process. but in order for them to be able to get a full-time job one day, it's important that they can complete the internship. and they do something in practice, and that's worth the money, so decent pay is so important. what is the truth of what i just said? on the lesson. at least in austria in my home country we have dual education a highly successful model with low youth unemployment, with well-trained professionals who also win international awards for their expertise and expertise. and the same thing would have to be true for internships. the training is not paid exclusively by the company, but also by the public sector and the vocational school. and also, internships cannot be done by the company alone, at least in many cases, but also here young people need the support of society together and can get on the right track.
a uachtaráin, a choimisinéir, quality traineeships play a pivotal role in integrating young people into the labour market. the transition from education to employment is fraught with difficulties for our youth, and it is imperative that we address these obstacles collectively. despite progress in recent years, there remain significant hurdles. notably, the number of young individuals gaining long traineeships has decreased. furthermore, while the percentage of paid traineeships has increased, it is disheartening that nearly half of the trainees across the eu continue to go unpaid, undermining the financial stability of our emerging workforce. quality traineeships are instrumental in bridging the gap between education and employment. however, these persisting issues threaten to discourage talented individuals and exacerbate existing inequalities. we need to incentivise and promote paid traineeships, increase the overall number of traineeships, and encourage collaboration between educational institutions, businesses and government bodies. quality traineeships are indispensable tool in aiding the integration of young people into the labour market.
mr president, in europe, 4 million young people a year go on internships as a first step to enter the world of work. this is a growing phenomenon and a theme, that of internships and traineeships, which i have followed for many years, working in this parliament to strengthen their quality, strengthen the youth guarantee and help girls and boys in the difficult transition between study and work. with so many struggles and the push of commissioner nicolas schmit, we are now one step closer to a historic milestone: the commission's publication of a directive on the quality of traineeships, which must set out some key concepts: the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and rights, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that the community's social security systems are not compromised. in october 2020, this parliament adopted for the first time a resolution calling for the banning of free internships, after banning them in this same european parliament thanks to the campaign of some young meps, like me. we had an exceptional ally who said, "it's a battle of dignity. recognition of the right to be paid is as important as the right to work: it's not enough to have an internship to make a young person happy". that was david sassoli. let's take this battle of dignity to the end.
mr president, training practices are a vital tool for the development of young, not only professionals. it is our duty to ensure that these practices are of high quality and fair to practitioners. we must protect the interests of trainees by ensuring that they are adequately paid and that they receive the appropriate material and professional experience to assist them in their future career and career, as well as in their personal and professional development and training. the exploitation of workers for unpaid work is unacceptable and contrary to the principles of justice and dignity which this body and the european union uphold. through policies and measures that protect the rights of learners, we can ensure a fair and constructive environment for their professional development. let us join forces to ensure that every trainee has the opportunity to develop his potential, without being subjected to exploitation and other unfair practices.
mr president, i am glad to belong to the socialist group, which has taken the lead to push for an ambitious directive on quality traineeships. mr commissioner, i rely on you to give this message to president von der leyen – we need to tell her that the time to act is now. we cannot wait any further because all young people should have the opportunity to get experiences in the institutions, and not only those who have parents who can finance them while they’re working here in this parliament or in other institutions, in what some can experience something which is very similar to modern slavery. traineeships should not be only for the privileged youth. they should be for everyone. and as we are speaking of this, even in this parliament, how can it be possible that even today trainees cannot rent the bicycles that we all get for free? members, assistants, advisers, everyone who works in this parliament can get bicycles for free, but trainees have to pay for bicycles outside of this european parliament, while the rest of us get them for free, and they are the least paid in the european parliament. i was so happy to invite 100 young people, one every week during this mandate, to join me here in this parliament, all being paid for coming here. and i’m so glad that, out of this, now one is running for the european parliament elections, and many of them are running for local council elections, because once we give young people the opportunity, the sky is the limit. they can reach the sky.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am the youngest italian member of the european parliament. i'm thirty years old. i am young, but not very young, and yet i realize that there are many young people who not only have not entered the world of work full time, but are also doing internships that are underpaid or even unpaid. and this is a great sadness. it's a sad thing because conducting an internship very often is a privilege. it is a privilege to have a family behind you that can cover the costs of doing that internship. it is clear that trainees have a great opportunity for personal and professional growth, but this does not justify wrong practices towards them. trainees have rights: they have the right to pay, they have the right to a contract and they have the right to social protection. the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the need for a common and coherent approach to the internal market. we hope to have them as soon as possible, because young people will be the leading class of tomorrow, they will be the lawyers of tomorrow and they will be the doctors of tomorrow. i mean, they're our future, and so it's only fair to recognize what they deserve.
mr president, mr commissioner, being young must not be discriminatory, nor should it mean having fewer opportunities or not being paid for your work. since the european union we have been promoting quality education for years. but all this is of no use if there is no transition to an honest and inclusive world of work that respects the rights of young people. we talked about the problem of not receiving compensation for the time spent on the internships, but also the expense that every young person has to make them. a cost they and their families must bear for the benefit of the companies that make a profit. we have just celebrated the european year of youth and we must take care of its legacy. there is no better legacy than the adoption of a quality practice directive at once. practices must be remunerated. president. - the next item is the joint debate on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain dangerous goods. the young are waiting.
mr president, as a european parliament we adopted a resolution in june calling on the commission to propose legislation to ensure that remuneration covers at least the cost of basic living for periods of apprenticeship and that these practices are also treated as real work experience with respect for labour rights. we also call on the member states to make these periods accessible to persons with disabilities and vulnerable persons. at the same time, however, we must also provide guidance and incentives, especially for small businesses, to provide traineeships and high-quality post-traineeship job prospects. as a political group, we have taken the lead on this issue, because we believe that young people are not cheap labour but the real future. and that is why, dear commissioner, we expect and trust you to be able to bring a legislative proposal before the end of this term.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, well, all the young people who have listened to this debate have understood that there is nearly a consensus that they deserve a fair treatment when they are a trainee. and that’s why it is – i agree – now time to act. i was asked, ‘what does it mean, an initiative?’ well, an initiative means a legal proposal. being a directive and as we have – and i never hid that – some treaty constraints, we have to associate the directive with a recommendation, which is not my wish, my ideal situation, but also i would say the commission, at first, is bound by the treaty text. now, i think that your debate showed different aspects of this important issue. first, it is indeed a question also of dignity, of respect for young people. it is a question of social justice because those who do not have parents who can pay cannot go for a traineeship, and their situation on the labour market will not be improved by that. it is a question of equal access, therefore, but also it has been said by somebody we are in a period where there are permanent complaints – and rightly so by the way – about shortage of talents, shortage of skilled labour. well, i would tell you, if there is a company, an employer that doesn’t pay their traineeships, they are not attractive employers, and no young people should be attracted to go there for a definite work. so it is in the interest also of all employers to really respect young people, respect trainees and pay them adequately. and that’s why we have to put an end to these endless traineeships. in germany, we talked about ‘generation practica’ – you have mentioned it – and this is something which has to come definitely to an end. now, we are finalising the legislative proposal. it will come. it has to take into account some constraints which we have in the treaty, and i thank the parliament for the insistence and the commitment on this particular important issue for young people. but i say also to member states that they should take care and that they should really ensure that also for young people, all work deserves pay.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. four out of five young people have completed an internship during the last year. 52% had to do more than one internship before getting their first job. we therefore want to ensure that quality employment begins with practices that guarantee rights and give european youth the opportunity to develop their careers and start their own life project. in the face of a right which is systematically promoting the rights of young workers, we socialists are the promoters of the first european law guaranteeing remuneration and good quality of work and effectively ending the exploitation of young people in the eu.
in writing. four out of five young people have completed an internship during the last year. 52% had to do more than one internship before getting their first job. we therefore want to ensure that quality employment begins with practices that guarantee rights and give european youth the opportunity to develop their careers and start their own life project. in the face of a right which is systematically promoting the rights of young workers, we socialists are the promoters of the first european law guaranteeing remuneration and good quality of work and effectively ending the exploitation of young people in the eu.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on the continuation of repression against democratic forces in venezuela: attacks on presidential candidate maria corina machado (2024/2549(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this house already discussed and expressed its concerns in july last year about the political disqualification of venezuelan political leaders such as maría corina machado and henrique capriles. unfortunately, the venezuelan supreme court has just confirmed their political ban for a period of 15 years. they are deprived of their right to participate in the next presidential race, without access to their files, and this is done in a fairly regular manner. these worrying decisions come amid political persecution of opposition members, particularly against maría corina machado's party and civil society activists. decisions aimed at restricting the fundamental political rights of opposition members must be annulled. the council continues to call for the full implementation of the political agreement signed by the government of president maduro with the united platform in barbados last october, which sets out a roadmap for democratic presidential elections in venezuela. we remain firm in supporting an inclusive dialogue process, because it is the only way to a peaceful and democratic solution to the political, socioeconomic, humanitarian and migration crises at various levels that the country is currently facing. mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office for his excellent report. we must keep our channels of communication open with all political actors and parts of venezuelan civil society in order to support dialogue and democracy. the european union welcomes the decision of the venezuelan parties to remain at the negotiating table and to continue their concerted efforts on the basis of the programme launched two years ago in mexico. as you know, the european union is included in the barbados agreements as one of the invited international observers for the next presidential elections, following our 2021 election observation mission for municipal elections. the european union always hopes that it will be possible to organise credible, free and fair elections; it will therefore consider any formal request from the venezuelan authorities in the light of the changing situation in the country, the electoral conditions and the participation of the opposition. in conclusion, the council is ready to act on the basis of developments in the situation on the ground. it is now up to the venezuelan government to demonstrate its commitment to the implementation of the barbados agreement, the release of political prisoners and respect for human rights.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of parliament, minister, 2024 is the decisive electoral year for venezuela. it is the moment to put the interests of venezuelans above everything else, and to work towards credible and inclusive elections. the october 2023 political agreement signed in barbados between the government and the opposition was a positive step in that direction, as was the liberation of a number of political prisoners in december. but as you know, unfortunately this has been overshadowed by recent developments. the political repression with arrest warrants against members of the opposition culminated last week with the venezuelan supreme court of justice confirming the ineligibility of two popular opposition leaders: maría corina machado, who won the opposition’s presidential primary, and henrique capriles. these rulings prevent members of the opposition from exercising their core political rights and compromise the very essence of democratic participation, undermining democracy and the rule of law. the european union has already publicly expressed its concern and has called for the full implementation of the barbados agreement and for the continuation of an inclusive dialogue process leading to credible, inclusive and transparent elections in venezuela in this year. honourable members,the people of venezuela deserve an electoral process that reflects their aspirations and ensures their active participation. democracy is not merely about casting votes – it’s about fostering an environment where citizens can freely engage in civic matters without fear of prosecution. governments could never be free to choose their electoral opponents, no more than they could be permitted to rig the outcome of the elections. the eu stands ready to support venezuelan democracy in this crucial year, including through the deployment of an electoral observation mission for the 2024 presidential elections – if formally invited by the venezuelan authorities. the final decision would depend on the evolution of the situation in the country and electoral conditions, in particular the participation of the opposition. if these elections do not take place in conditions where their results can be recognised by the venezuelan people as well as the international community, it would mean that the political crisis that started in 2015 will continue to deteriorate, and neither the venezuelan people nor their neighbours could bear this. as to the targeted restrictive measures in place until may 2024, as indicated by the council, the eu will review these measures in light of developments on the ground and the implementation of the political agreements. the european union will continue to support a democratic and peaceful solution that comes from venezuelans themselves and puts an end to the complex crisis in the country. venezuela must return to the democratic path, starting by holding credible, inclusive and transparent presidential elections in 2024.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, tyranny, political persecution, arbitrary detention, disability, disappearances, lack of freedom, oppression of a people: yes, once again we are talking about venezuela. once again maduro has refused the hand that was being extended to him. on 22 january, he ordered the arrest of more than thirty venezuelan citizens. his only crime: defending a more democratic and just venezuela. i admit that i wanted to harbor my hope, shared with millions of venezuelans, that the opposition could run in a minimally clean election. however, that hope has been frustrated. the supreme court of justice, imposed by the regime, confirmed in an absolutely irregular manner the inhabilitation of maria corina machado and other candidates. this not only ends any hope of change in venezuela, but the regime clearly and forcefully violates the barbados agreements. our response can only be the strongest condemnation of the regime, and to convey to all venezuelans our solidarity and support in their struggle for democracy. it is essential that we do not lift sanctions. it's the opposite. maduro's attitude requires that we harden them, that we make the criminals who oppress venezuela notice the pressure on them, that they feel that their actions have consequences.
mr president, in october last year in barbados, an agreement was reached between the democratic opposition of venezuela and the government of venezuela in the sense that the international community was demanding. an agreement between venezuelans that would mean a roadmap for free and competitive presidential elections during this year 2024. an agreement which also referred to the work done by the european union in the last election observation mission deployed in the country. well, unfortunately, and today we have to regret and denounce it, what has happened in the country over the past few months and weeks has gone in the opposite direction. the repression of democratic opponents in the country has continued, and the inhabilitations that are the cornerstone of the repression system that is being experienced in venezuela today continue with, in addition, a presidential candidate who had won the opposition primary elections, from the opposition table. that is why we demand that venezuela fulfill what was agreed in barbados for a roadmap for free and democratic elections in 2024, which is what the venezuelan citizens deserve.
on behalf of the renew group. mr. president, we're going to win the election for good or bad. that's what nicolas maduro said recently at a rally. for the good or the bad? it couldn't be for the good. so how's it going to be? for the bad ones. and how are the bad ones? disqualifying the candidate who won the opposition primaries with more than 93 percent of the vote. this is the goal of nicolás maduro: to prevent a free democratic confrontation. because the regime of nicolas maduro is a regime addicted to repression, addicted to torture, addicted to murder, addicted to human rights violations, addicted to cocaine, addicted to lying and addicted to deceiving. but there's nothing worse than letting yourself be fooled. not just the liar, but the one who lets himself be fooled. so this parliament has to say first, 'you will not fool us.' and secondly, we will make three things clear to you: there will be no reduction of sanctions; there will be no election observation mission; and there will be no recognition of election results if you cheat. if maria corina cannot come forward, if there are disabilities, this parliament will not accept her traps and will say no: no to the regime, no to maduro, yes to democracy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr. president, the confirmation of the inhabilitation of maria corina machado and other members of the venezuelan opposition is contrary to the barbados agreements between the unitaria platform and the maduro government and strikes a hard blow to the hope of free and fair elections in venezuela. despite the many efforts made to achieve equal elections, we see the political persecution of democratic opposition candidates and members of civil society persist. the elections are not a springboard to gain international legitimacy or to open up markets to oil. they are the basic mechanism for decision-making and consent by governments. they are also a hope for change for millions of venezuelans who are in a very precarious socioeconomic situation. this basic mechanism should not be altered by traps. that is why we call on the venezuelan authorities to respect the outcome of the platform unity primaries, which delivered a strong result; to allow their presidential candidate to participate in fair, competitive, inclusive and transparent elections; to release political prisoners and, ultimately, to stop interfering in the process towards a normal election.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the communist criminal dictators do not abdicate. they don't go home voluntarily. a dictator who has not tens of thousands but hundreds of thousands of dead, tortured, missing, and who has created a tragedy like that created by nicolas maduro with all the organized crime: those do not abdicate. barbados was to them the same as it has been on previous occasions when they have taken the whole international community by storm. and it seems a lie that there are still people here who say they had high hopes. there were no high hopes. the only great hope that can be had is that, now that they have failed because they let maria corina run for office and win them overwhelmingly, there is now pressure from outside that has not been there before for all the complicity that he had with maduro. because maduro is there because of the complicity he's had with him, just as the cuban dictatorship is where it is because of the complicity he's had with her. mass pressure from the european union, mass pressure on the whole regime from the united states and the oas. and that's all there is to it. and without that, there will never be anything in venezuela. they'll be 65 years old like cuba.
mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my condolences for the recent death in a helicopter accident of former chilean president sebastián piñera. my condolences to the family and to the entire chilean people. gentlemen, i'm going to barbados. the barbados agreements gave rise to a certain hope of change in the terrible situation in venezuela. but maduro's actions in recent weeks are incompatible with these agreements: the primaries held by the democratic opposition are rejected; the participation of maría corina machado in the presidential elections is not allowed; attacks against the opposition are increasing; there is no release of prisoners, on the contrary, there are new arrests. let's get a message out loud and clear. the reliability of a democratic transition and the open road for barbados rests on two pillars: the full participation of all candidates, including maria corina, and the release of political prisoners. in the current context of non-compliance, it is not appropriate to ask for the review of sanctions against venezuela, as the spanish foreign minister imprudently did. we must be vigilant and demand full compliance with the barbados agreements. they cannot be a ploy by the regime to gain time and concessions. finally, is the european external action service coordinating with the united states? a country which, by the way, has already announced that if this situation continues, in april it will reinstate sanctions.
mr president, this year's presidential elections in venezuela represent a great hope for all its citizens. we, the democratic countries, have a responsibility to help make this electoral process clean, fair and free. today we send a clear message. maria corina machado, leader of the opposition, has full right to attend the polls. there will be no democratic elections without your participation. there will be no democratic elections if political prisoners, persecution of opponents, human rights defenders and journalists continue. the european parliament will support maria corina machado and the venezuelan democratic forces until the end.
mr president, i believe there is only one possible message that must come out of the european union: without maria corina machado there will be no presidential election with any credibility. fifteen dialogues with the opposition. no results from the survey. 1,400 disabled since 2002. countless attempts at agreement. and now, maria corina machado, who is the hope of democratic change in venezuela, disabled. it is not a point to talk about verification missions for the union to become a part, a decoration that adorn the chavista regime. let us not be deceived: a credible policy towards venezuela based on self-deception is not possible. it is clear that this declaratory policy will not achieve minimum democratic conditions for an electoral process. keeping up the same will only lead to the same results rather than disappointing.
mr president, i am addressing the council because it is time to act. the time for good deeds and good words in favor of a criminal regime is over. for years they have been criticizing being firm against maduro. and time has put them back in place. they gave in to the socialist government of sanchez and decided to extend the sanctions only for six months instead of for a year. but, tell me, will they withdraw sanctions against criminals, torturers, murderers in may, when the motives of the actions remain the same and are still standing? listen to another president, socialist too, but he's not sanchez or zapatero. listen to felipe gonzález: not a millimeter of ceding in front of the revolutionary chavistas. maria corina machado is the opposition presidential candidate. without her, there will never be free elections. they demand compliance with the agreements. they unabatedly support free and democratic opposition. maduro has taken a few people. others don't. don't fall into the trap again. this is the crucial moment. there's a lot at stake. freedom and democracy in venezuela are at stake. the freedom and democracy of the venezuelan people are at stake.
mr. president, two years from global gateway. two years of opacity and secrecy. two years of raising multibillion dollar public money again for private multinationals. two years of reinforcing impunity and corporate power abuses neo-extractive painted green. two years to announce and create projects to control migration flows in africa, to secure the supply of raw materials in the global south or to unleash trade negotiations in latin america. finally, two years of green colonialism to defend a supposed european strategic autonomy that would maintain the garden of which mr borrell spoke. stop disguising things as they are not and call them by their names at least. the global gateway is europe's response to the new chinese silk road, an extractivist strategy to dispute scarce resources at a geopolitical time of global confrontation. that's it. at least let's call it by its name. (the speaker agrees to answer a question asked in accordance with the blue card procedure)
blue-card question. – mr urban crespo, you said that global gateway amounts to green colonialism. could you substantiate that accusation by pointing out which of the projects that the commissioner presented amount to green colonialism?
blue card answer. i hope that next time, instead of talking to my colleague helmut scholz, you will be able to hear my speech. the truth is that green colonialism is a real problem, because we often talk about the energy transition. but for electric cars to exist in brussels and berlin, uranium mines are needed in peru, ecuador or bolivia. that's what we're talking about with extractivism and green colonialism. most ngos are denouncing how the transition or supposed european green transition is fostering extractivism globally. at least the evidence is assumed from the verts/ale group.
mr president, i think the proposal or initiative of the global gateway is a very good, right way in which we should actually support the whole world. as the richest, most successful, we have a responsibility to other parts of the world, and this support for infrastructure is a very good idea for me that the european commission has come up with. after two years, we can see that it can work. i really liked mr bullmann's proposal, which said that we could extend this cooperation to the parliamentary area, and that would certainly be a good and beneficial idea, since this cooperation is based not only on supporting infrastructure in the energy, digital and transport sectors, but also on exchanging experience and perhaps some good solutions, because together we can make this progress much better. i think this platform of cooperation is an opportunity for progress not only for the european union but especially for those parts of the world that will work with us in other parts of the world and we can support developing countries. for example, by promoting not only digital skills but also digital connectivity, we can promote better education, better opportunities for countries outside our territory. but we can also connect not only education but freedom to reduce regional disparities and encourage young people in these regions to have better opportunities.
mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, from africa to the western balkans, we see the cost and corrosive impact of chinese investments. they undermine countries’ finances, human rights and the rule of law. colleagues, the democratic world is facing a serious security threat from this totalitarian regime, and we need to act accordingly. first, we must move faster to deliver the necessary investments. second, we must intensify our coordination with democratic allies. rather than aid dependence, investments are the best way to ensure sustainable economic development and to strengthen democratic governance. they are vital to our economic competitiveness, whether by improving connectivity or securing access to critical raw materials. moreover, they are key to addressing the root cause of mass migration.
mr president, commissioner, on the same day that we signed and discussed the situation created by the russian invasion of ukraine in this plenary session, we also assessed two years of implementation of the global gateway initiative. i remember this here and now because the global gateway initiative is a key pillar in consolidating the geopolitical position of the european union and the stronger the multilateral perspective of shared development, the more prepared the union will be to have the partnerships needed to overcome its existential challenges, such as that posed by russian expansionism. i congratulate the commission and team europe on the work they have done, with which parliament has always been actively involved, supporting programmes and projects and demanding, and will continue to demand, greater capacity to monitor results and set priorities. i stress in particular the priority to be given to the launch of regional protocols under the samoa agreement, as well as to the implementation of the flag designs and interim reprogramming. this agenda reaffirms the commitment to a differentiating vision for european cooperation, based on the principle of equal partnerships, co-creation and focus on the objectives of sustainable development and human development. and this is the path we must follow!
mr president, madam commissioner, eur 300 billion: this is the unprecedented amount committed by the european commission to the global gateway international cooperation programme. the european investment bank (eib) is the largest single european investment bank in the world. in africa, which will reach half of this envelope, some projects already launched are certainly successful, such as partnerships with kenya. despite the promised amounts, which will have to be made sure to spend effectively, the relations we have with the rest of the world, particularly africa, are weakening. in the geopolitical context of conflict we are experiencing today, we must act with the promise of restoring distant ties. the commissioner said that the global gateway strategy should be a massive investment programme, but also a driver of reconciliation with our partners. it must help make the european union an indispensable actor in reducing inequalities and strengthening action for the environmental transition.
mr president, commissioner, we who are engaged in international cooperation have said this from the beginning, and the high representative has recently reaffirmed it: let us not let global gateway, with its emphasis on physical infrastructure, make us forget the importance of social infrastructure, which builds the dignity of living in freedom. we need more transparency; more inclusion projects with measurable standards of social impact, for example through the eib; more local civil society presence in the implementation and choice of projects; more the so-called advisory board being binding and not just figurative; more the presence of parliament we do not allow ourselves to be mere observers of monitoring: the board does not meet from 2022; an adaptation also to the regional scope of each partner state, as competencies are sometimes not only national; and most importantly, that the amounts allocated of €300 billion of course, only €45 billion for latin america, being one of the regions most affected by the pandemic are not at the expense of the more traditional cooperation programmes, which have a real impact on the people who need it. technical cooperation creates governance, which is more difficult than building roads or airports.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we in the s&d group are passionate about this subject. there is no doubt that the global gateway is of utmost strategic importance to us for its way of looking at the rest of the world, for strengthening alliances, but also for creating new synergies with international partners that benefit all. to be effective, it is clear that we must abandon the somewhat postcolonial approach that has often characterised our development policies, to achieve genuine partnerships built on a strategic and equal basis, with the guiding principle of common and mutual development at the heart of which are environmental sustainability, human rights and social and working conditions. the global gateway must be consistent with the rest of the union's policies and parliament must play a clear role in ensuring that consistency. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the global gateway strategy is an ambitious initiative to support the development of the global south, and it is to be welcomed. however, it is not so easy to understand what underlies it from a strategic point of view. is this about competing on the silk road? to take positions in critical resources or infrastructure? to accompany a geopolitical priority which could, which in my view should, be africa? or to meet the basic needs of the population? the interventions of my colleagues reflect this form of indeterminacy. beyond the strategy, its implementation sometimes raises questions. the massive investment does not make a policy. what is our view of the partnership associated with this deployment? are we really supporting projects that are linked to a comprehensive strategy for sustainable development and that are supported by civil societies and peoples? finally, are we not at risk of promoting inequalities in access to credit? we know that a lot of aid goes to the most advanced countries at the expense of the most fragile, to which private investment does not turn. in conclusion, i believe it is important to put global gateway into perspective in a comprehensive development aid strategy and to ensure that public development aid is reinforced in addition to this strategy.
mr president, the commission cites democratic values as the first core principle of the global gateway policy. but i am struggling to see how this initiative is democratic. firstly, it was not conceived in a democratic way, with the european parliament frozen out of the implementation of the policy, and the responsible commissioner has never appeared in this parliament to account for the implementation of the policy. secondly, i do not see how the policy is supposed to foster democracy. only 2 of the 46 partner countries can be considered high-performance democracies. so what we are left with is the naive hope that economic growth fosters some kind of democratic spirit. we know from the histories of china, saudi arabia, qatar and other countries that this is a myth. and thirdly, we have a business advisory group which has met now with 60 members, some connected with the chinese state and none of them from the global south. so we need – and i agree with ms gonzález in this regard – more transparency, we need more community development agreements, and we need stronger conditionality. otherwise, we are vulnerable to the accusation of hypocrisy and double standards, undermining the eu’s credibility.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate. i have listened carefully. i appreciate your strong engagement and i value your input. global gateway has begun delivering concrete results on the ground from africa to the indo-pacific to latin america and the caribbean. we have worked towards the sustainable development goals and to the just green and digital transitions, so critical. we have strengthened partnerships around the world while upholding the universal values we hold most dear, and we have increased europe’s resilience and geopolitical standing in the process. looking ahead, global gateway will take up even more speed. we will need to boost major initiatives that can have the greatest transformational impact, such as the trans-caspian corridor, lobito corridor and green shipping corridors. we must continue to mobilise private sector partners, the financial engine behind global gateway’s success, and we must work together to continue increasing visibility in member states, partner countries and multilateral fora. in a contested and rapidly evolving world, the global gateway builds resilience for the eu and our international partners alike. we need to get this message out together. dear president, dear members, thank you once again for your interest and cooperation on this important issue. many of you have stressed the importance of the involvement of this house in the global gateway. i am therefore very happy that the european parliament is a member of the governing board, and on behalf of the responsible commissioner, jutta urpilainen, i truly welcome the opportunity to update this house and would like to suggest that this would become an annual debate.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. it is important to include non-discrimination in the development of the global gateway, thereby improving access for people with disabilities, both in the digital sectors such as transport, health and r&d. it is great that the eu is investing in quality education, including digital education, with a lifelong learning perspective in mind and helping girls and women and people with disabilities to learn, but it is important to make sure that the school environment is appropriate for them. digitalisation, for example, can promote better education, reduce inequalities, but it can be applied correctly if tools and programmes are used freely and distance learning does not increase the isolation of learners. it is a pleasure to see the eu supporting the population of developing countries in access to clean drinking water and wastewater treatment, thus providing a healthy environment for them. many come to hungary to study water engineering through the stipendium hungaricum scholarship program, and when they return home they can use their knowledge.
the next item is the debate on the report by isabel benjumea benjumea, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directives 2011/61/eu and 2009/65/ec as regards delegation arrangements, liquidity risk management, supervisory reporting, provision of depositary and custody services and loan origination by alternative investment funds (com(2021)0721 – c9-0439/2021 – 2021/0376(cod)) (a9-0020/2023).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, we are only a few months away from the end of the term of office and this is a key opportunity to reflect on the way forward in the union of capital markets. since the beginning of the legislature we have made significant progress, but we have also had to face major challenges and challenges that have limited the potential of european capital markets. when the european commission launched its second action plan for the completion of this union in 2019, optimism and energy for the implementation of the measures were the main players. what no one expected was a pandemic like covid-19 that would trigger a huge volatility in financial markets, with sharp falls in stock market indices and unleashed levels of uncertainty among investors. what no one expected was a russian invasion of ukraine that would escalate geopolitical tensions, weakening european competitiveness in key economic sectors such as energy. what no one expected was the biggest banking crisis since 2008 to unfold in the united states with the collapse of silicon valley bank. what no one expected was increased risk aversion and fear of a contagious effect on european markets. clearly, what no one expected was that we would have to fight the highest global inflation of the last few decades and its consequent interest rate hike. this scenario we have been through in recent years has little to do with any of us' imagination for this legislature. however, each of these developments has served to make clearer the absolute need for the union of capital markets in the european union. a stronger union, culminating and consolidated. the obstacles we have faced have shown the important role that financial markets can play in the european economy, both in households and in businesses. the agreement reached, which is to be put to a vote tomorrow, on the amendment of the directives on managers of alternative investment funds and collective investment organisations in real estate securities (aifmd and ucitsd) is an extraordinary news. these directives form a key part of the latest legislative package launched by the commission in 2022 to boost, precisely, the union of capital markets. with the agreement reached, i would like to thank all the alternative speakers who have taken part and the council and the commission, we can say that the delegation of functions in asset management contributes to the efficiency of investment portfolio management, that the proposed amendments will promote a more focused approach to improving the quality of service for investors, while maintaining a fluid channel of information with the supervisor, that today lending investment funds can be an alternative source of financing for the real economy, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. the private credit sector must continue to grow by making institutional investors more involved. and with the agreement reached, liquidity risk management will present a more robust structure to mitigate market tensions and to protect investors. the proposed system recognises that the primary responsibility for liquidity management lies with managers and that they are the ones who must make decisions based on their investment strategies. in short, the alternative investment fund sector represents an investment of more than eur 1.5 trillion in europe. it provides over €250 billion in private credit to european companies and european investors account for 30% of the total capital allocated to the whole sector. it is certainly a valuable contribution to the european economy and financial markets. i therefore celebrate today that we are holding this debate and i ask you to vote for it tomorrow.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you to the rapporteur benjumea, the shadow rapporteurs and colleagues who are interested in this debate. if you look at the title with the acronyms, maybe it doesn’t show what’s so important. so, for the record, what i want to do is read out what these directives are, because they are two key laws that govern the eu investment sector. one is the alternative investment fund managers directive (aifmd) and the second the undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities directive (ucitsd). so both are highly important. the investment fund sector plays a pivotal role in the european economy, with total assets under management reaching nearly eur 20 trillion, and there are more than 4800 asset management companies operating in europe. the sector has continued to grow over the last few years, so it is a hugely significant sector in terms of the financing it can offer the european economy and, of course, its importance for the capital markets union, but also in terms of what is always a core aim, maintaining financial stability. the agreement that you have reached makes really important progress on both of these points. it will improve access to additional sources of financing for eu companies. it will strengthen the protections for investors that choose to invest in these various types of investment funds, and it will also help us monitor and manage financial stability risks. so just to mention some of the specifics of the reform. firstly, it introduces a harmonised list of liquidity management tools, and this will equip fund managers with a toolkit to better respond to liquidity stresses. and that will play an important role in improving the resilience of eu funds. secondly, there are new rules on loan-originating funds. this is an important step towards establishing an alternative source of funding, particularly for our smes. and finally, thanks to parliament, we are introducing additional safeguards for retail investors. we hope that this will increase retail investor participation in capital markets. in particular, we share the goal that costs should not be excessive or unduly charged to investors. esma’s report on undue costs will help assess the cost charged to investors, and it will set the tone for further work in this area. in addition, fund managers will be able to appoint an independent director in their management bodies and work will be done to ensure the names of investment funds are not misleading. these are all important steps towards building retail investors’ trust in capital markets. we can look forward to esma’s work to establish a uniform set of implementing rules. it has taken us a while, as you know, colleagues, to get here – almost two years of very intense discussion and for political trilogues – but the efforts of parliament have made a huge contribution towards this ambitious outcome. and so i therefore look forward tomorrow to your vote. before i finish, can i just particularly thank our rapporteur – i think we are eye-to-eye here, dear isabel benjumea – for both your support, your ambition and your tireless work in good cooperation on this file. also the team around you, we wouldn’t have got to this place without that energy and commitment, so thank you for that.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me start by saying that fund managers are better informed on the funds than their supervisors and their investors, and they use this advantage to hide risk from supervisors and to extract high fees from investors. for example, retail investors pay 40% more in fees than professional investors. the fees in some european countries are more than twice those in the uk. this is what economists call rent—seeking, and rent—seeking stands in the way of the cmu – the deeper, integrated capital markets that are instrumental for economic growth and risk—sharing in europe. i am glad that esma is empowered to report on undue costs and to act against misleading fund names. however, i’m not as glad as i could have been with a more ambitious approach, weighting partly in the retail package, and that would have been to stop—rent seeking, protect investors, bring down the fees and support the european capital markets. my last words of thanks are for the rapporteur: you’ve done excellent work in bringing forward the parliament’s position. thank you for that.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unregulated finance has been the cause of many crises. the need for a robust framework for speculative activities is essential. the revision of this regulation is involved, but it is not logical, since companies are still bought out by funds which are intended to cut them off and then sell them back to make the most profit. these practices have detrimental economic and social consequences and must be very strictly controlled, because they destroy the purpose of an enterprise: to create wealth for the benefit of people. a business is much more than capital or financial return. it is employees, customers, territories that it helps to make us richer and more alive. this is why the financial rating should be balanced with a territorial rating. finance must regain its rightful place in our economy, which is to raise capital to support long-term projects and enable us to regain our economic sovereignty. in a word, it must be for the service of nations and peoples. if we were to have one goal, one goal, one goal, it would be to empower nations to make the necessary investments to weigh in the world of tomorrow by financing our ex-lence. for offshore finance, which breaks the bonds between the company and its shareholders, is the greatest threat to prosperity. economic freedom must benefit all, otherwise it will self-destruct.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the great work of parliament, mrs isabel benjumea, and of course the alternative speakers who have collaborated, such as mr paul tang from the s&d group, because it is a project which has been said to be important for the progress of this union of capital markets. yesterday we were talking about the immediate payments regulation, a very simple regulation to explain to all citizens, why has no bank transfer been made? explaining the directives we have reviewed today is a bit more complicated. but i would simply like to inform european citizens that with this revision of two directives we intend to improve savings management throughout europe, to consolidate european savings so that they can be allocated to the real economy, to facilitate non-bank financing as mentioned, and of course to improve control, information to small investors, to retail investors, who need supervision and control to know how to operate in the markets. we therefore welcome this progress, already in the final part of the legislature. and let us hope that the capital markets union will move even further in the next legislature.
member of the commission. – mr president, can i just say i long for a day when this chamber is full for debates like this. because it should be. because frankly, this matters to people, to businesses, small and large. but maybe i won’t live that long, but i had to put that on the record, because i want to thank those who are here for your contributions and for your work on this file. and as i said in my opening remarks, this agreement brings many advantages. and that said, our work to support the european investment fund industry and investor protection continues. paul tang, if i may call you by your first name, member of parliament, your comments are well noted in that regard, and there is always more work to be done. i would say that our retail investment strategy is still being discussed by the co-legislators, and i hope the ambition is maintained. from the commission’s side, we will continue to closely monitor any developments around investment funds which may require our intervention. we also continue to engage with our international counterparts so that our respective rules and regulations evolve consistently. we will work closely with esma on implementation and closely monitor the transposition by member states. so again, well done, colleagues who worked on this file. i know that others may not realise it, but this really matters because we need investment in our economy to make it more sustainable and to improve the lives of our citizens, and this is part of that.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would like to acknowledge the enormous leadership you have had in promoting the union of capital markets since you came to the commission and thank you for your support in a difficult context. so i'm very grateful for that leadership, that ambition and those milestones that we're going to finish the term having achieved. if we look at the draft of the capital markets union, obviously we have a long list of objectives to be met: objectives within that action plan and objectives, perhaps, that are above. but i would like to use this last minute to say that if we really want to move forward, what is key is the retail investment strategy. i deeply believe that it is absolutely essential to make european savers real investors. and i think that this is the only way we can bridge the gap between the financial markets and european citizens. i think that bringing financial markets closer and making them more accessible to retail investors is the big issue. the strategy being negotiated, the retail investment strategy, is the main piece to achieve that change and i therefore encourage it to move forward and be closed also in this mandate. i believe that a strategy must be developed which is focused on understanding the needs of investors - of course also costs, but also the needs of investors - and which aims to offer the best quality, advice and adaptability to the products so that they can decide when to invest. so if we look back today, i think we can look with satisfaction at the work that, under the leadership of the commission and the leadership of parliament, has made a great deal of progress in the union of capital markets. i hope that the retail strategy will be closed and i hope that at the next commission we can talk about a europe of empowered retail investors who can control their savings and think about their future.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam commissioner, welcome to the commission. teachers are the support our children have in their day to day lives, those adults of the future who need a strong pillar in their teaching. and we should take better care of them. we have been told this by the committee on petitions, which has forwarded its complaints to us, and this is well reflected in the eurydice report. he speaks of temporality. it's been discussed here. it is true that there are increasing complaints about non-permanent contracts. although most teachers have a stable contract, it is true that for those under the age of thirty-five an alarming figure is already seen: one in three teachers under the age of thirty-five has a job or a temporary contract. there is general dissatisfaction with wages. many teachers also report being overworked. it is true that teaching activities are combined with administrative, managerial and parental activities. that takes a lot of time and adds a lot of stress. almost 50 percent of teachers report a lot of stress. and that's also to make us look. and, of course, the incorporation of digital technologies is a very important challenge for them. there are two very significant issues: the difficulty of finding teaching staff and retaining talent in rural and sparsely populated areas. we must therefore come up with solutions. we are clear about this: improving working conditions, offering competitive wages, increasing social recognition of the profession and establishing strategies to support teacher welfare. what has been discussed at the recent meeting of the european education area on 10 october 2023 and what approaches or initiatives will the european commission take to make possible better working conditions for our teachers?
mr. president, mrs. commissioner, mandela said that education is the most powerful weapon we have to change the world. but education needs knowledge, laws, budgets and teachers and teachers, who are ultimately the ones who transmit that knowledge. it's an exciting profession, and i'm telling you from experience. but even the greatest passions are extinguished by precariousness and lack of opportunity. this should not be the case for those who have the task of guiding future generations to a future full of possibilities. they need decent working conditions and security. it is impossible to offer a quality public education if professionals are discouraged or abandoned, something that happens in many parts of europe, including my homeland, andalusia, where the poor management of the andalusian government and its privatising model are restricting the access of new teachers and teachers and compromising the education system. i always like to remember that talent is equally distributed regardless of origin. what's not is opportunities.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, europe and this parliament continue to empty themselves of democracy. the new zealand agreement is amended without even being passed by this parliament, as is an obligation. it's unacceptable. but it is that while israel continues to kill almost 30,000 people, while the international court of justice is investigating it for genocide, while bombs fall, while children have to be amputated without anesthesia, while people have to drink tap water because they have no supplies or food, today europe is keeping the partnership agreement with israel active. the european union is not only whitewashing ethnic cleansing in palestine, but is funding it: funds to develop machines to demolish palestinian homes and open illegal settlements, companies drilling wells on palestinian land, israeli arms companies producing drones, white phosphorus, cluster bombs, which once tested on palestinians, are bought by member states. it's a shame. you have to send a clear message, concrete actions, no wishes in the air. and that means suspending the partnership agreement now. not a minute more of complicity.
mr president, our values are increasingly needed in a world marked by wars, pandemics and the impact of the climate crisis, which is suffering more those who have contributed less to warming. that is why we must expand our partnership programmes to be more useful in the world and bring out the best in us. erasmus+ is already working for young people around the world, including people with disabilities. but other programmes need to be strengthened, such as the union civil protection mechanism, which is essential to prevent the impact of this climate crisis, precisely, on those countries that cannot afford a satellite like copernicus. the digital section also includes the connecting europe mechanism, which is being extended by the bella programme to connect europe and latin america and be really useful in this transatlantic connection and enable the connectivity of millions of people. horizon europe, to which you have referred - the faroe islands, new zealand and canada have already joined - will be likely to be cut short by these budgets. the question is therefore whether you will support horizon europe so that it is not cut. will you give this parliament more input in expanding these programmes?
