in writing. the belgian presidency has the task of closing this complicated legislature. it seems that the policy pursued over the years has been very unsuccessful. once again, absolute priority is given to measures such as the green deal, which has proved to be a purely ideological instrument with questionable environmental benefits. it also stresses the current migration redistribution plan, despite the fact that this immigration management strategy has never solved the problem. i hope that the council will act responsibly in its duties, focusing on the files we have closed and allowing the most controversial to be discussed after the elections, by a new majority expressing the will of the european electorate. as we have seen many times in the past, the end of the mandate is often the moment when the most divisive measures are adopted, the consequences of which are likely to have long-term effects of difficult management. this parliament still has time to continue its work: the hope is that we can do this to the best of our ability, focusing on the good of european citizens and leaving aside certain end-of-term policy strategies.
the belgian presidency of the council of the eu is taking place at a particularly complex time when clear decisions must be made and the symptoms of division within the partnership must be addressed. the presidency's motto is 'protect, strengthen, prepare' and aims to focus on six thematic areas, namely the defence of the rule of law and democracy, strengthening competitiveness, pursuing a just ecological transition, strengthening the social agenda, protecting people and borders and promoting a global europe. the way in which the presidency can unlock the €50 billion financing package to support ukraine and unite the 27 countries in a strong diplomatic, political and humanitarian strategy for resolving the conflict in the middle east and in particular in the gaza strip will be the cornerstone for the social and economic priorities set out. in the six months leading up to elections to the european parliament, in which the risk of abstention and the rise of the extremist and radical vote is high, the european union cannot continue to give signs of dispersion and lack of leadership. making good decisions must be the priority of the priorities.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion of the council and commission statements on the subject of 'compliance with commitments and military support for ukraine' (2024/2510(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, last year was indeed a historic moment for ukraine and the european union, with the agreement to open accession negotiations with ukraine, a logical follow up on ukraine’s hard work on reforms since euromaidan, and yet another confirmation of its place in the european family. ukraine remains our top priority, but realities on the ground continue to remind us that more is needed. between 29 december and 2 january, ukraine sustained the heaviest wave of drone and missile attacks so far since the beginning of russia’s illegal invasion. once again, the ukrainian people showcased their unwavering bravery and resilience in facing the russian aggressor. russia’s political and military objectives have not changed. its continuous attacks are the sad proof that we must step up our military support and we need to increase, not just maintain, our military support to ukraine to withstand and push back the russian invaders. this must be our strategy to be implemented with determination. we have all the resources needed to support ukraine in the long haul. le soutien militaire apporté par l’union européenne et ses états membres depuis février 2022 s’élève aux alentours de 27 milliards d’euros. en outre, plus de 300 000 obus d’artillerie sol-sol et 3 300 missiles ont été livrés à l’ukraine à partir de stocks existants et par la redéfinition des priorités de commande. en plus de cela, des commandes pour au moins 180 000 obus ont été passées dans le cadre d’acquisitions conjointes auprès de l’industrie et les livraisons augmenteront encore évidemment dans d’autres commandes qui sont prévues. nous accélérerons aussi la production de notre industrie de défense, notamment par le biais du règlement asap, que le parlement et le conseil ont adopté l’année dernière, et qui commencera à produire ses effets cette année, contribuant également à nos objectifs en matière de fourniture de munitions à l’ukraine. enfin, notre soutien reste ferme par l’intermédiaire de la mission d’assistance militaire de l’union européenne en soutien à l’ukraine, qui apporte une contribution exceptionnelle à la formation et à la régénération aussi des forces ukrainiennes. à ce jour, nous avons formé plus de 39 000 membres des forces armées ukrainiennes. nous examinerons également la manière dont la facilité européenne pour la paix, qui a été un canal majeur de notre soutien à l’ukraine depuis le début de l’agression russe, peut continuer à fonctionner de manière durable avec des ressources accrues. sur la base des initiatives que j’ai mentionnées, l’union européenne travaille sur sa contribution aux engagements de sécurité pour l’ukraine à moyen et à long terme. le haut représentant en a fait rapport lors du conseil européen de décembre et les travaux se poursuivent. parallèlement au soutien accru apporté à l’ukraine, l’union européenne doit continuer à faire pression, absolument, sur la russie. nous avons imposé des sanctions sans précédent contre la russie, en dernier lieu en décembre dernier, avec le 12ᵉ train de sanctions, et ces sanctions ont affaibli l’économie russe en faisant chuter la valeur du rouble et en faisant grimper également l’inflation locale. nous discutons maintenant de la possibilité d’utiliser les recettes supplémentaires générées par la gestion prudente des avoirs russes immobilisés pour soutenir le rétablissement et aussi la reconstruction de l’ukraine. il est d’une importance vitale d’agir en coordination avec nos partenaires internationaux, en particulier le g7, pour accroître l’efficacité de nos mesures, comme nous le faisons pour les sanctions. les travaux se poursuivent pour clarifier un certain nombre de questions politiques, économiques et juridiques très complexes, y compris quant à la propriété de ces avoirs gelés. alors que cela fera bientôt deux ans que la russie a lancé son invasion à grande échelle, nous restons unis et déterminés à maintenir notre soutien inébranlable à l’indépendance, à la souveraineté et à l’intégrité territoriale de l’ukraine. nous continuerons de fournir un soutien financier, économique, humanitaire, militaire et diplomatique fort à l’ukraine et à sa population aussi longtemps qu’il le faudra. l’ukraine représente notre priorité absolue de politique étrangère et elle le restera.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, the european council decision to grant eu candidate status to ukraine created a powerful reform dynamic despite the ongoing devastating war, with strong support from the people of ukraine. the ukrainian government and parliament demonstrated impressive resolve and resilience over the last year. in a short period of time, the country has confirmed its capacity to make progress in reforms aligning with the eu acquis, even during the war time. in addition, the decision in december by the european council to open the negotiations provided the ukrainian people with a morale boost and the hope for a brighter european future. in turn, it is our role and duty to not only continue but increase our support to ukraine on all fronts, but especially on military assistance, as we witness the relentless attacks ukraine faces by the russian aggressor. the work the european union and its member states are currently undertaking on europe’s defence, competitiveness and capacity will eventually provide ukraine with necessary support among the other security commitments. in march 2023, eu member states agreed on a three-track approach to deliver ammunition to ukraine. since then, the eu has progressed on this strategy to deliver one million rounds to ukraine. the commission has been contributing to this effort, focusing in particular on the ramping up of the industrial production capacity. soon, the european industry will have a capacity to produce one million artillery shells a year. for other types of ground-to-ground ammunition, such as mortar shells, it has already a production capacity well in excess of one million. in support of ramping up ammunition and missile production, eu member states agreed on a work programme to implement regulation on supporting ammunition production, which we know under the abbreviation asap, which will allocate eur 500 million to support the investment project worth up to eur 1.4 billion, thereby incentivising the ramp up of ammunition and missile production in the european union. it will also help address bottlenecks throughout the supply chains of ammunition and missiles in the eu and norway by supporting industry to rapidly adjust to new market trends and reduce dependencies. in addition, the eu is also intensifying its efforts to incentivise member states to commonly procure the most critical and urgent defence products from the european defence industry. the instrument for the reinforcement of the european defence industry through common procurement (edirpa), which was adopted last october, will play an important role in this context. ukraine needs us now more than ever. ukraine is our top priority and it will remain so as long as it takes.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of steps. i am, among other things, the co-rapporteur for the $50 billion ukraine facility. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the implementation of the programme. the fascist aggressor russia must be returned to its borders. it is scandalous that we have not yet increased our armaments to such an extent that we are opposing the russian-north korean-iranian-chinese armaments union. it is not enough to support ukraine verbally for as long as it takes, but we must finally adopt the draghi formulation for the rescue of the euro: support ukraine, whatever it takes. at the time, we couldn't afford to lose the euro. today we cannot afford to lose ukraine. we need to deliver more. in particular, this means for the member states that you finally give long-term contracts to industry, then capacity is increased and staff is hired, and you deliver what you can right away. tell third countries that agreed deliveries to countries that are not currently at war are waiting a while so that, for example, the actual production of 155 millimeter grenades can now be delivered to ukraine in full. i expect the german chancellor to not personally block the supply of taurus missiles here. germany is not a one-man democracy. from his coalition and with the opposition, there is a majority in the bundestag for a delivery. almost all experts are for it. don't be afraid of your left-wing party, but of a putin victory. anyone who supports putin by not giving up is sinning against german and european history. i'm not going to say anything. i'm not going to let you go.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, madam minister, commissioner, the fate of ukraine as a state and of ukrainians as a nation is being decided on the battlefield. our ally ukraine can only contain and defeat the aggressor if, among other things, it is given the necessary military support. it goes without saying that in order to defeat the terrorist state russia, the amount of the western military support must far exceed the increase in russian military spending. let us frankly admit that this has not yet happened. our european commitment to ukraine in terms of military aid must not only be met, but well exceeded. only in this way will we be able to provide the necessary assistance to ukraine and protect our countries from any possible russian military provocation. i call on the eu member states to honour the commitments they have made to ukraine and its people. ukraine has no choice but to fight for its survival, paying a high price in the lives of its people and other devastating losses. peace in ukraine can only be restored and secured with the support of its western allies. dear colleagues, insufficient military deliveries could lead to the defeat of ukraine and, consequently, to the destruction of the western security system. let’s do our utmost to prevent that from happening. let’s do it now.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, colleagues, this moment certainly is a turning point for both ukraine and all of us. despite all efforts, what we’ve done until now is not sufficient. ukraine needs a massive support in arms and ammunition, and that is predominantly member states’ competence and political will is needed. we do not need a lullaby for our conscience by combining support for ukraine with changes to mff, we simply have to do it now.
on behalf of the id group. – mr president, dear colleagues, it is not a very nice debate, and of course the situation is not even nicer either. first of all, europe, of course, has supported ukraine, but as already mentioned, it hasn’t been sufficient, and it has been too little and too late. what was also mentioned before already – and it was absolutely correct – our industries, defence industries, are very slowly increasing, and that’s the huge problem. the european economies are just working and continuing as under normal times. on the russian economy, they are working 24/7 in their war time zone. the second problem is that we’ve been afraid of the escalation. of course, all of us have to be afraid of escalation. nobody wants to see war in the baltic states or in poland or in moldova. but the problem is that the real escalation will be if ukraine will fall. that will be the real escalation for the future – to have a new war in three, four or five years. the second thing: last week we had the honour to welcome mr zelenskyy in tallinn, and he said very clearly they need men. they need more men, because thousands of men have died, also from the ukrainian side. but in europe, we have almost 800 000 ukrainian men who have illegally broken the ukrainian laws, escaped from ukraine, as cowards. we need to help ukraine with those men, and also with the military aid, that they will not die in ukraine; that they will fight for ukraine and they will win this war.
mr president, dear colleagues, just to pick up from where my colleague ended: ensuring ukraine will emerge victorious requires continuous, sustained flow of aid from the international coalition of democratic nations, including weapons and ammunition. unfortunately, this is not the case today. in order to make sure that we will not lose focus and that our collective support for ukraine’s war effort will not fall victim to our internal political gridlocks, we should make a firm, measurable commitment similar to nato’s famous 2% threshold for defence spending. if the euro-atlantic community and all other like-minded nations committed to ukraine’s ultimate victory over the aggressor would allocate, until the war has been won, just a modest 0.25% of their gdp for supporting ukraine, it would yield approximately eur 120 billion annually, more than enough to ensure that there are no unwanted disruptions in the ability of ukrainian military to fight back the aggressor. moreover, it would effectively thwart any russian hopes of military victory over ukraine and deliver a clear message to the kremlin that we will stand by ukraine until the aggressor has been decisively defeated.
- the chairman of the meeting. good colleagues, as many as you are in this room. first, most of you have, of course, complained about hungary and demanded that the right to vote be revoked, that the veto be vetoed. and the question is always that while i personally do not always agree with what hungary is doing, especially with regard to russia and ukraine, i always have a question, as i always do, about how it is possible to deprive someone of their right to vote just because the european commission or the majority of the federalists in this room do not like what one country is doing. if hungary says, "hey guys, you know, we'd like to get our money back, that we gave the european commission a mandate to take out the biggest loan in history, almost 800 billion euros, and we'd like to get our share now because we gave the mandate and the mandate for you, then the european commission says, you know, no, i still don't like you. you don't do that, and then the third and we won't give you that money. and now that hungary is starting to fight back, to tell you, but i'm not playing around with other things, that we veto here and there, and we don't get our money, everyone's gonna scream and scream like pigs in the garden, for a crackpot, which hungary is doing. that i always have a question about where is the next place, the next country, if there is a certain -- i don't know -- unsuitable party in power that makes you uncomfortable with politics, that we leave you without the right to vote, like, you know, a lower-class country in europe, because no, you're still not equal to the federalists of the european union here. ukraine must be supported, but military aid must be given, and hungary, fortunately, cannot and has not prevented military aid from being given, which germany and france have not done.
for the ecr group. mr speaker, i want to speak to you. the left is shocked by norway's decision to have mining operations in the sea. there is no problem in filling the oceans with wind power that has a negative impact on animals and nature. it's a political decision to build wind farms everywhere and to have electric cars that have led to this mining. it is therefore intellectually dishonest to criticize norway at this time. where else are we going to get all the material, the minerals we need for the green transition? maybe from china, which sucks even more? instead, let's work across party lines. for my party, the swedish democrats, nuclear power is the solution to the energy crisis. nuclear power is actually one of the purest forms of energy production. everyone who lives outside the climate bubble knows that. nuclear power can make electricity prices cheaper, and that's what citizens need right now.
on behalf of the id group. – mr president, dear few colleagues in the chamber, dear commissioner, first of all, i’m really wondering. i’ve seen also the news from norway, where all the greens and liberals are protesting against the plan. but, at the same time, the same greens and leftists don’t have any kind of problem that we are acting as colonisers in africa and in congo to have those precious metals for the green deal. because to drive with fancy, nice electric cars, to feel very green, to sleep in a better way, we need those metals. today, currently, we can get it, especially from africa and from asia. you don’t worry about that, that you are using child labour in congo who are earning less than 2 dollars per day, because you need those metals. at the same time, if there’s alternative for the seabed mining in norway, then there’s a huge problem again. so what is the alternative? how can we make this, our green deal? how can we use those electric cars, if you don’t like the seabed mining? but you don’t worry at all about mining in africa or in congo, like in history, on the same way, not better at all. so, that’s the problem. of course, the only result is that we have to end up with this kind of green deal ideology, which is absolutely crazy, because it doesn’t make sense. like the previous speaker told already, the only future for energy is nuclear power. that’s the only solution.
mr president, dear colleagues, two years into putin’s war of aggression against ukraine, what can be said? one thing is for sure: putin has failed, his blitzkrieg has failed miserably. he has not managed to break the resolve of brave ukrainian soldiers, brave ukrainian people, or of the democratic world that continues to stand with ukraine. and, indeed, somehow mr putin has even managed to double the length of his country’s border with the nato alliance. so putin has failed, but we are yet to succeed. we have said over and over again that we would stand with ukraine for as long as it takes. but let us be clear, how long it takes depends directly on how much we give and how quickly we do it. so we must give more and we have to do it now. let me repeat what i have said from this stand before: if all of our member states and all our transatlantic partners were to pledge, on a sustainable basis, just one fourth of 1 % of our gdp for the support of ukraine’s war effort, it would make a crucial difference. it would help to end this war and hand the russian aggressor the decisive defeat it deserves. this would be the best gift we could give to our continent’s future security and prosperity.
- the chairman of the meeting. i have three messages today. first, the war in ukraine must end with ukraine's victory and peace on ukrainian terms, which means holding putin and his neighbors and all war criminals accountable. it's the only way to stop a criminal aggressor and show the world that international law is in place. secondly, 50 billion euros for ukraine is the right decision, but it is not enough. member states must significantly increase their bilateral assistance to ukraine and their contribution to the peace financing measure. if estonia can contribute 1,5% of its gdp, others must do the same. this is real solidarity, this is real support. war is expensive, but our money is not comparable to the lives and suffering ukrainians pay every day. good ukrainians, the european union is often bureaucratic and slow, preparing disappointment and demand. last week showed that the european union is united in supporting ukraine. i can confirm you have friends here who won't let you forget your fight. - the glory of ukraine!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, colleagues, we know that putin is a revanchist leader who wants to expand territory under his domination at the expense of his neighbours. we also know that he is not quite so stupid as to genuinely believe that europe harbours similar territorial ambitions against russia. he is fully aware we do not. he does fear one thing, however. he is genuinely afraid that our political system based on democracy, freedom and the rule of law is potentially attractive to russian people and that could prove fatal for his authoritarian rule. that is why he is trying to exploit fault lines in our societies, fuel tensions, sow discord, interfere in our democratic processes, run malicious information operations. he wants to discredit liberal democracy, both in the eyes of russian people as well as in the eyes of the citizens of our countries. he is actively recruiting people to help him in those sinister efforts, and he is ready to put serious money into it. while there may be individuals in the european institutions who do putin’s bidding unwittingly out of stupidity or ideological conviction, there are others who are ready to betray europe’s security interests and break our laws for personal gain. this is dangerous and deplorable, and we need to improve our alertness and situational awareness in order to take timely and decisive action.
- the chairman of the meeting. in 2007, i was the ambassador of the republic of estonia to moscow. it was a time when russia portrayed my country as a nazi state and me as a nazi ambassador. this was the time when russia organized cyber attacks against estonia and encouraged anti-estonian protests in tallinn. i saw firsthand how the kremlin's propaganda machine works, what it is willing to do to achieve its grand chauvinistic goals. then georgia followed, crimea, and today there is full-blown aggression against ukraine. i have a pain in hearing colleagues who are naive or stupid to be kremlin officials, useful idiots in the european parliament. i understand the diversity of democracy and opinion, but somewhere there is a limit and that limit has been crossed when you cooperate with russian intelligence. i hope that the investigations in latvia and the european parliament will uncover the truth and the culprits or culprits and they will be held accountable so that everyone including the kremlin will have a clear understanding that interference in the processes of the european union is unacceptable and has consequences!
