on behalf of the left group. – madam president, on behalf of the left group, i would like to request to add a debate with the following title to the agenda: ‘commission statement: norway’s recent decision to advance seabed mining in the arctic’, with a resolution. this should be added to the agenda on wednesday afternoon after the topical debate. consequently, the session should be extended until 23.00. and why? because norway’s decision to advance seabed mining in the arctic is very destructive for the vulnerable arctic environment, even at the exploration phase. this kind of activity could potentially start a global race to mine the ocean floor, which it is essential to contain. the deep sea is the most extensive habitat on our planet, and it supports high biodiversity. the position of the eu is clear: the precautionary principle must apply and we need an international moratorium on seabed mining. this is why it is very important to have this debate on the agenda of this plenary and, in that way, send a clear message to the norwegian parliament.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, this is a topical issue this week as norway has now made the decision. so i feel it’s important we have the debate this week. but in the spirit of compromise, maybe i could propose we have the debate this week and the resolution in february i?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, professor hübner, and her team for leading the work on this important piece of legislation. this mifid review is a key reform for two main reasons. firstly, thanks to the newly created consolidated tape, investors will get clarity around where to find the best deal in the european union. this is how a european market should work. secondly, thanks to the push of also my group, we get rid of the harmful practice of payment for order flows. this is absolutely necessary as this regime generates the worst outcomes for their clients. of course, this mifid review is only the first step towards a capital markets union which serves investors. the next big test lies in the retail investment strategy, which is being negotiated right now. if we really want to create a well-functioning capital markets union which can finance all the challenges ahead of us, let’s follow the logic of the mifid review with the ban on payments for order flows, which is one type of inducement. indeed let’s put the interest of retail investors in the centre and let’s go for a full ban on inducements. all independent studies demonstrate that a full ban on inducements leads to better deals for retail investors. overall costs for products that carry inducements are nowadays around 25% higher than those products which do not carry inducements. colleagues, eu citizens want to get a fair deal, and rightly so. let’s stop financing unsustainable business models. tomorrow i hope we get rid of payments for order flows. next i hope we can get rid of all inducements.
mr president, every second we discuss in this chamber, the wheels of the russian economy are turning. the bank of finland has calculated that russia has increased industrial production related to the war economy by 35% from the pre-war period in ukraine. i mean, in russia, production is just growing. meanwhile, weapons are coming from north korea and iran. and what are we doing here? we promise to support ukraine as long as it needs to, but at the same time we do not support ukraine as much and as quickly as it needs to. and this is the key question. we must ensure that ukraine is able to defend its national sovereignty, because putin will not stop. he's waiting for us to get tired. he's waiting for the u.s. election. he expects democracies to be weak. we have to show putin that we're not giving up. we will not give up our commitment to upholding international law, democracy and the independence of ukraine so that ukraine can have the peace it deserves and wants. and that is the objective that the european union must support every action it takes.
mr president, israel has held all palestinians collectively responsible for the atrocities committed by the terrorist organization hamas and bombed gaza in a shocking way. the deaths of civilians are beyond all comprehension. most of the dead are women and children. it is important that the international court of justice find out whether israel is guilty of genocide in gaza. without a single legal process, it is clear that killing civilians and innocent children is unambiguously wrong. hospitals are in ruins, and children are amputated without a touch. there's a famine in gaza, and it's getting worse every day. we need to put an end to this right now. condemning the killing of innocent civilians is not anti-semitism. the actions of the state of israel must be assessed on the same criteria as any other un member state. on the other hand, the cruelty of the state of israel also does not justify anti-semitism. the international community must take all means to achieve an immediate ceasefire in the region and to launch a peace process towards a lasting peace towards a two-state model.
mr president, the solutions to the green transition and to european self-sufficiency must be found elsewhere than at the bottom of the sea. according to a study commissioned by wwf, a combination of circular economy, new technology and recycling could reduce mineral demand by 58% between 2022 and 2050. here's the solution we need. the sustainable solution is not to extract more virgin resources and cause more and more damage to nature and ecosystems. the adverse effects on nature and the climate, particularly from deep-sea mining, are difficult to predict and impossible to control. researchers warn that mining can have devastating effects on marine ecosystems and that carbon emissions cannot be predicted. accidents are almost impossible to avoid. in a situation where science does not even know all the risks, it would be irresponsible to authorise such activities and therefore the european parliament must continue to demand a moratorium on deep sea drilling and also show norway that this is the right direction for a sustainable nature relationship.
mr president, the term hate speech is a new word invented by the green party and a way to restrict freedom of expression. if you listen to the green communists, there's nothing in the world but hate speech and racism. they're taking the soviet model. i saw the mouth-locking go on there too. in my country, the concept of insult and defamation has been and still is. it's impossible for a human to talk without hurting someone. this is what an army of injured people are chasing online. they've also hired non-employee officials to fill the role. the introduction of these completely interpretative hate speech into legislation is a dangerous path. first, it leads to self-censorship and finally to dictatorship.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, geothermal energy holds considerable untapped potential within the eu. given its weather-independent, continuous, reliable and renewable nature, it can play a significant role in the decarbonisation of the energy sector, particularly in heating and cooling applications, and also including linking it with district heating, but also in strengthening the eu’s energy autonomy and encouraging the development of local energy communities. this is one of the energy sources where local people can also play a big role in creating energy independence for europe. however, limitations such as restricted access to data, regulatory, technical and financial barriers are currently hindering its full utilisation. the lack of harmonised and complete data, sufficient geothermal resource mapping, dedicated rules for geothermal projects – also combined with the shortage of skilled labour – have highlighted the need for political action. nevertheless, it is also imperative to remember that any development in this domain should adhere to the highest environmental standards, take into account legitimate public concerns, and carefully consider the specific geological conditions of each member state. but it is also a question of good planning beforehand. future legislation in this area will play a key role in stimulating the development of the sector and unlocking its potential. the new report, voted tomorrow in parliament, aims to find solutions to these challenges and asks the commission to put forward a legislative proposal that can tap the untapped potential of geothermal energy. i thank very much all the colleagues that have worked on this report and urge the commission to continue work on the basis of it.
mr president, the new normal seems to be that major and serious crises follow one another like a whirlwind, and that they hit women the hardest. the severe pandemic has particularly affected women, as the nursing industry is very feminine and the responsibility of home care still rests too much on women. the energy crisis that followed also affected women, as nursing is also a low-wage industry, and the fair and steep rise in energy prices was the hardest for low-income people. the general increase in prices is, of course, the most common among low-income and overweight women. especially those with kids to look after. before the pandemic, women lived 20 million more under the poverty line than men. the eu and its member states should assess gender impact in all their legislative work and seek to enact laws that curb inequality, not increase it. this applies to all sectors of policy, including climate, because the social justice of the green deal, the green transition programme, has been undermined. both the ecthr and the equality institute report that the green development programme has failed to guarantee gender equality. this will remain the task of the next parliament.
mr. president, the russian brutal attack on ukraine is continuing. in its attack, the russian leadership has abandoned all key commitments made by the country and thus set itself outside normal european and international cooperation. the people of ukraine are fighting a heroic battle not only for their right to self-determination but also for the freedom of all european peoples. our mission is to support ukraine to the best of our ability. the european union must provide financial, humanitarian and military assistance. the russian leadership must be aware that it is responsible for the war of aggression and human rights violations committed. it will have to repair every damage and destruction it causes in ukraine. ukraine will fight under difficult and demanding conditions. our commitment to european union, to eu membership, is an important factor in giving ukraine direction. while we understand the conditions of war, we trust that the eu accession path will help ukraine to make the necessary reforms, commit itself to democracy and civil liberties and to a society free from corruption.
for the left. mr president, the 2040 climate target must follow scientific advice. we have set this out in our own climate institutions and to do this we have set up a european climate panel to provide the best possible scientific advice on the basis of the whole of the union's climate policy. the climate panel stated that the appropriate emission reduction target is 9095%. the key to setting the 2040 target is how to calculate emissions reductions. instead of a single net target, separate targets should be set for emission reductions and mitigations. if all sectors do not participate in emission reductions, the eu will not achieve its climate objective. the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for a new programme of action. agriculture has not achieved emissions reductions in 20 years, despite billions of dollars of climate finance earmarked for this. no emissions reductions will be enough if the swallowing weakens, as it is now. the 2040 target should also take account of the role of agriculture and set its own emission reduction targets. furthermore, the reform of eu agricultural aid is essential in a way that supports farmers and food producers in moving green, while also securing their future and livelihoods.
mr president, it’s imperative that we get the 2040 emission reduction target right from the start. that is both for the reality of the climate crisis to address that, but also for the efficient decarbonisation of the european economy. we must learn this from the 2020-2030 discussions. the communication feels, from that viewpoint, that of missed opportunities. the commission has started with the 90 % target. that was the minimum of the scientific panel. but from there it looks like you have looked too much at short-term fixes instead of maximising action that is really the industrial revolution and the strategic autonomy our economy needs. there is no deadline for fossil fuels. there is no goal of 100 % renewables by 2040. and you’ve made room for nuclear, not at the cost of fossil fuels, but at the cost of renewables. there is too much reliance on ccs, instead of looking at industrial investments that can be long-term solutions that bring also jobs to europe. on agriculture and forestry, it’s also an economic possibility to invest in carbon farming and not just being quiet about those possibilities. so, i think we can do more and the commission can do more. this is only a starting point for that.
mr president, although state aid is not on the agenda of the meeting, i expected the commissioner to have said something about state aid, so i think it is a relevant subject. i also expected that the common eu market would allow a total of tens of billions of euros in state aid derogations. they're all breaking the fair market. it's easy to say that's what china and the us do. however, it would be a grave mistake to make the manipulation of the competitive position of companies by state aid more widespread within the wto. it would mean turning a market-driven industry into a state-run one. in the socialist system, this was tried with bad success, as we all know. i understand that the eu also needs de minimis and cohesion aid, and these are the right ones. however, it is in the eu in particular that research, development and innovation should be the focus. these subsidies are permissible and fair and benefit everyone. success comes from letting the more competitive win. if the government chooses the winners, it's not good. governments are disrupting good efforts to promote fair world trade. i hope that the eu representatives will also recognize in the wto that competition with state aid is a better starting point for a market economy.
