on behalf of the band the left. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this moment of remembrance is an opportunity to recall the decisions taken during the presidency of jacques delors of the european commission between 1985 and 1995, as these decisions shape the architecture of europe today. jacques delors, like the vast majority of political leaders of the time, believed that the revival of european construction had to be done first and foremost by deepening the market logic and that, of course, social was important, but that social harmonization would naturally come about once the dogma of competition was upheld. instead of a social europe, we have had the right to a brutal europe, a europe that hurts: austerity, free trade, a single act and a single thought, maastricht, ever more sacred competition, displacements in the middle of a dead end. experience has shown us that socialism did not arise spontaneously from the market and that if we want socialism in europe, we need political will, we need concrete decisions in this field. but then some of the most ardent advocates of liberalism panic as they face a european text that could improve the lives of workers. it is the same people who claim to be the successors of jacques delors in the effort to revive european construction and who are obstructing the texts that improve the lives of workers at european level. to be clear, i am furious to hear leaders like emmanuel macron standing on the national stage as a great advocate for a europe that protects and at the same time seeing this same emmanuel macron here at european level working hard to bring down a directive that should give some rights to platform workers, all so as not to clash with uber's interests. in a few months the european elections will take place. i believe we will make sure that the european citizens know that those who boast that they are the most pro-european are actually blocking progress that could improve the lives of millions of europeans. i would like to say to the most zealous proponents of european construction that if you return to the dogmas of a brutal europe, you will achieve european destruction.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, farmers throughout europe are making their voices heard. they're marching in mass because they're suffering. they don't want to disappear. they reject the green covenant and its accompanying obligations and its declining targets. the european union is directly responsible. by imposing environmental standards off the ground, by lowering yields, by free trade agreements signed with the whole world, by ending traditional family farms, by increasing our imports, it is killing our agriculture. the message of farmers and herders is simple: they are passionate about their trade, their land, their animals, their farms. but they are at a crossroads, faced with the accumulation of european standards and unfair competition. every two days, a french farmer commits suicide, a record. it is vital, ladies and gentlemen, to debate the future of our agriculture and our food sovereignty in the face of the globalist ideology and policy of this european union. this is a very important subject, and that is why my group is asking for this addition to the agenda and it is an urgent request.
on behalf of the id group. i would like to see my proposal voted on.
mr president, since the debate on the ozone layer in the 1990s, the european union has asked professionals to phase out a whole bunch of fluoridated gases. this was a real ordeal, since it was necessary to replace them with more or less reliable alternatives for heating, refrigeration and aerosols. but let's face it, these policies have worked. the chlorine-based fluoride gases, these inefficient and polluting gases, have been removed to make for more efficient and cleaner chlorine-free gases. the degradation of the ozone layer has also been greatly reduced. we had a balance in europe, using chlorine-free gases, which were both environmentally friendly and household friendly. in addition, chlorine-free gases are particularly effective in a continent that is in dire need of energy security. but you want to destroy that balance. you are calling today for a total ban on these chlorine-free gases to achieve your permanent zero pollution utopia. a logic that will benefit neither the environment nor the citizens. you have made this decision without studying the impacts, which is proof once again of your ignorance of the industrial realities of our continent. the professionals warn you that there is no serious alternative, but you are deaf. so what are your solutions for heat pumps, for heating, cooling, refrigeration transportation and everything? of course not. once again, it is the professionals and users who will pay the price for this transition. the end of the mandate is coming in a big way, so some political groups are in a hurry and desperate to get their latest anti-social and anti-industrial measures through as quickly as possible. this obsession is proof that this system of self is living its last months and it's so much better.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, behind these names and acronyms of mifir and mifid are real and major problems for the lives of people in the four corners of europe. as my colleague karima, fictitious rapporteur on this delicate dossier, has said, the texts that have come out will indeed have a very concrete impact on the wallet of our fellow citizens, and we can congratulate ourselves on the victories of the ecologist family here. in my work on the econ committee of our institution, for several months, i have read and heard from experts and experts pointing to the role of unlimited speculation and market manipulation in the extreme price increases that we have seen since february 24, 2022 and the outbreak of this war by putin in ukraine. how many millions of the most vulnerable people have been forced to demand a scheduling of bills and have been forced not to heat themselves or cut their daily budgets so that they can pay their heating and electricity bills like last winter and this winter? according to the latest annual report by oxfam on inequality, 99% of the european population has been poor in the last three years. yes, 99% of the european population has become impoverished in the last three years. no, financial speculation is not the only cause of this inflation, but yes, it has played a role that no one can seriously deny. and yet this factor has been completely ignored by the european commission and has been simply ignored by the right-wing groups in this house, too busy defending the interests of big business. the provision made by my group in the circuit breaker, the ability given to market authorities to suspend transactions on products given in the event of significant volatility, allows to significantly mitigate this problem, if not completely eliminated. the issue is far from over, however, and much remains to be done. in our next term, we will be here to ensure that the large non-financial companies that act as unscrupulous speculators are indeed subject to the same rules as traders. as early as 2025, we will fight to build real barriers to speculation on raw materials. i therefore call on you, as my colleague karima, to support this text.
madam president, mr prime minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the belgian presidency of the council is entering a pivotal period for europe. this is a pivotal moment because, mr prime minister, at the end of your presidency, we all know that european elections will take place. what is happening today is the path our union will take tomorrow. there is no doubt that as we gather in this house, europe must take its destiny back into its own hands. in a few months our american allies may be back in isolationism and may feel hostile towards us. but in a few months ukraine may not yet have regained its territorial integrity, and i refuse to dismiss the idea that we must wait, again and again, until the worst has happened before we finally act. europe must now take control of its future to ensure that ukraine does not collapse, to support the states that are about to join us, to reform the way our europe works. unanimous consent can no longer be the rule in a union of 36. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a new directive on the protection of workers' rights. i know that your presidency, mr prime minister, will be keen to lay the foundations for the coming revolution. so, of course, institutional reforms are one thing, but equally fundamental is the question of our values. mr prime minister, as poland is re-establishing democracy, as the free press is reviving life in slovenia, we must see these successes not as exceptions but as concrete examples that are not fatal in politics. we therefore call for the conclusion that the viktor orban government is seriously and persistently violating the fundamental values of the european union. we must move to the second stage of the article 7 procedure of the treaty, mr prime minister, so that these violations are also relegated to the status of a parenthesis in the democratic history of hungary and the european union. mr. prime minister, you are the head of a country that matters. you are also a member of our political family, renew europe, and know that you can count on our unwavering commitment to you to respect our values and ambitions.
mr president, i hear here and there about the fatigue of ukraine which our countries would experience. that expression is obscene. it's the ukrainians who fight, it's the ukrainians who suffer, it's the ukrainians who die. it is the ukrainians who would have the right to say that they are tired, but on the contrary, they are resisting the flood of fire that russia is imposing on them. and i'm tired of our slowness, our delay, our gentleness to support them in the fight for them, but also for us, for our safety and our freedom. we have ammunition, we didn't deliver enough and not fast enough. missiles, kiev expects much more and now. airplanes, but what are we waiting for? i'm tired of hearing that there's always a good reason to do less, and less quickly than we should. the european facility is blocked by viktor orban. shame on him. so let's do something else, but let's do it fast and hard. the arms industry is waiting for orders and our states are tightening their budgets. so let's start a big loan together for european defence and military aid to ukraine. we've been able to do this to fight a virus that came from the ends of the earth. we must be able to do it again when we have a threat knocking on our door. let us do this without waiting, without waiting for russia to launch another offensive in the spring, without waiting for the outcome of the us presidential election. there's not a minute left to lose.
the report is not yet available. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the war in ukraine, the pandemic, the risks of relocation, inflation are all areas where our competition policy has played a decisive role in protecting our businesses and our households. with this report we are sending a clear message about our intentions, the future of our competition policy and the industrial policy we want. we can now prevent unfair competition from foreign companies that are heavily subsidized. we can now fight the gafam monopoly. it's the end of naive europe, now the world is watching us. europe is not a supermarket where the 460 million citizens are the products. i am saying this here to our partners who freely enjoy our single market, but also to companies that would not play by the rules of the game. fair and fair competition is not a sacred principle that applies only to our member states. this is a reality that applies to everyone, including the rest of the world. with us$350 billion of investment, europe must also support green reindustrialisation. the recent decision by the european commission to prevent northvolt from moving to the united states is a good one. our state aid policy must align with the political objectives of the european union, in particular the green pact, and prevent a subsidy race between member states, which then entails investing in europeans. and finally, in the digital world, our hand will not shake despite the pressures. but let's not be squirmed by the lobbyists. apple, google, amazon, tiktok, meta, microsoft are now the six companies designated to comply with the dma obligations by march 6. we dare to say it and better yet, we will watch it. the european union is the first continent to regulate artificial intelligence. however, little attention has been paid to the threat of market concentration at the hands of the big tech. let us not reconstitute ai gafams, let us extend the scope of the dma to ai, let us monitor the agreements reached between the digital giants and ai start-ups. mr delors said that the european union must be able to function without competition, solidarity and cooperation.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, without true information, no freedom of choice is possible. without information, consumers cannot choose the most sustainable products. without information, we are all exposed to all kinds of misleading advertising, starting with greenwashing. and how can we make our single market more sustainable and build a true circular economy without clear commitments in terms of transparency and good information? this is why these new rules are a turning point. we will end the planned obsolescence. we are taking a decisive step towards stopping these practices by banning various tactics and practices ranging from misinformation about the life of products to the incentive to replace products or parts before they are actually needed. this is a clear commitment to the fight against planned obsolescence, a major problem in our consumer society. i would like to thank mrs borzan and commissioner didier reynders for their excellent work. we said it in 2019, we did it.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. mr president, welcome to all. look, good job, mission accomplished! it is a text which is inscribed, said commissioner reynders, in a package of texts with green claims, with eco-design, with the right to repair. and so here we have a flagship of this european strategy for a more sustainable market, to get out of this consumer society, to get out of this waste that was the rule until now. and so we start to twist things. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs borzan, who helped produce this text. it's coming from far away. my colleague pascal durand, in the previous term, had written a text on extending the life of products. i had been rapporteur on an initiative report where it had been very difficult, including here, to win over the prohibition of premature obsolescence but we had succeeded, to put mandatory display and we had succeeded. and thanks to you, mrs borzan, it is now in the text that the law will become law and it is a real victory for a different market view than that of consumerism at all costs. and then it was emphasized and it's very important, we managed to talk about the issue of advertising with the green claims, with this jungle, as you said, of labels that are there to mislead consumers and consumers, and make them consume products that are actually bad for their economic interest, bad for the environment, but that are presented as positive. this kind of pressure on consumerism that is being advertised is the time to talk about it in legislation. finally, i would like to say that what i particularly like about this text is that the burden of responsibility is finally reversed. too often, it is explained that it is the consumers and consumers who are responsible for the efforts. no, the companies are the ones who need to be held accountable. it is up to them to respond to our environmental needs and change the model. consumers and consumers must be helped in this regard. thank you for this text, thank you for this work. we have to keep going.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, dear biljana, commissioner, this text, which aims to empower consumers in the green transition, is part of a series of important texts, as colleagues have already said and are still being discussed in parliament. these future directives do not deal directly with the same subject but have a common objective: to enable european citizens to be actors in the ecological transition and thus consume in an informed way while we know that the ecological emergency is ahead. the text we will vote on tomorrow is certainly not perfect. why?because we are dealing with early obsolescence without actually ending the planned obsolescence that is causing so much damage to our citizens' wallets. the misleading interfaces are often not targeted. so obviously there is still work to be done and that is why we must continue to work to strengthen consumer rights and protection. we must now act as if this directive is, after all, an essential step forward and we must support it. it better regulates targeted advertising that is environmentally friendly. repairability is becoming the norm. recyclability and sustainability are becoming information for consumers to make informed choices. we know that some obstacles, especially in the spares, remain in the trade. but this text reinforces the requirements. of course, companies will have to play the game by applying affordable prices and indicating the availability of spare parts at the time of purchase. this is the essence of this text. and with this in mind, the european union must set an example in the face of the challenges. our fellow citizens expect a lot from us, and rightly so. the confidence in brussels is largely eroded, in many. so let us work together on the rights of our fellow citizens and not just to cheer but to push the issues forward.
mr president, commissioner, when it comes to ecology in this parliament, the equation is always the same: impose a policy decided in brussels without ever having to examine the impact and let consumers suffer from price increases. every crisis is aggravated by the absurd decisions made by this majority. when businesses face your administrative and economic constraints, consumers are paying the price. and it is obviously third country competitors who are taking advantage of this to replace european goods with goods produced at a discount, without any environmental standards. we are all in favour of sustainable practices. it would be time to do so, after decades of worship of free trade without borders. but to act directly on consumers is to try to revive agonizing growth, and it is therefore proof of your failure to support our businesses. you have turned europe into a continent that no longer produces and sells. so finally put an end to your liberal out-of-ground vision and listen to those who, like us, are proposing an economic model based on localism and common sense.
written. the ngos are one of the cornerstones of our society. without a broad, functioning and free ngo field, we as decision-makers would not be able to make as informed decisions as when we hear ngos. one of the most important, if not the most important, fundamental values of the european union is democracy. it is the ngos and their consultation that contribute to this value in the union. ngos are doing a good and important job at every level of influence, from the grassroots to eu decision-making. it is also very important to involve ngos even more in decision-making than it is today. this unstoppable ngo work must be supported by the eu rather than put on the wheel. the transparency of operations and financing must of course also be of concern to ngos, and they must constantly strive to do so. the above promotion does not mean, however, that ngos should be hampered by the eu, which, however, is the biggest beneficiary of active civil interference.
the minutes of yesterday's meeting and the texts adopted are available. do you have any objections? that's not the case. the minutes are approved.
the next item on the agenda is the council and commission statements on the humanitarian situation in gaza, the need to achieve a ceasefire and the threat of regional escalation (2024/2508(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. mr president, honourable members of parliament, members of the commission, commissioner, more than three months after the start of the israeli military operation against hamas, in response to the terrible attacks of 7 october, the humanitarian situation in gaza is continually worsening. the number of civilian casualties in gaza, more than 70 percent of whom are women and children, is intolerable. the protection of civilians is a legal and moral obligation that israel must more closely comply with, and in its own interests. this is the message we are constantly sending to israel. the european union and its member states are working to help alleviate suffering and provide the necessary humanitarian assistance to gaza. since the start of the crisis, the eu's contribution has more than doubled to almost €671 million. in the context of the team europe approach, we will further intensify our efforts considerably. the commission has already announced an initial funding of €125 million for 2024 and member states will also contribute. in the midst of the humanitarian tragedy in gaza, unrwa and other un agencies are playing a crucial role and facing enormous challenges. for this reason, high representative borrell decided to anticipate the european union's contribution to unrwa for 2023 in february last year and hopes to do so in 2024. encouragements have also been made to arab and gulf partners, who could therefore also increase their contribution to unrwa. the other challenge, with regard to humanitarian aid in gaza, is also its route. aid is not reaching those in need quickly enough and the number of trucks currently entering gaza is well below what is needed. the european union urges the implementation of un security council resolutions 27/12 and 27/20 to improve access to and the delivery of humanitarian aid, protect civilians and also ensure the liberalisation and release of hostages still held. next to gaza, the west bank is also facing an increase in violence, which obviously fears a contagion of violence. in 2023, attacks by extremist settlers, forced displacement of palestinian communities and massive travel restrictions reached unprecedented levels. with a total of 507 palestinians killed, 2023 will be the deadliest year for palestinians in the west bank since the first death toll was recorded by ocha in 2005. 60% of the deaths occurred after 7 october. we need the west bank to be stable again. the consequences of the war are felt throughout the region, on the border between israel and lebanon, as well as on the shores of the red sea and in iraq and syria. the eu and its partners are actively working to prevent further escalation, in collaboration with partners from the countries of the region. the european union should play an important mediating role between israel and lebanon, and contribute to supporting the lebanese armed forces. tensions remain high in the red sea region as well. the european union called on the parties to refrain from any threat or interference with the exercise of rights and freedom of navigation. the houthis must immediately cease attacks on civilians and threats against international waterways and merchant ships. we welcome the adoption of a un security council resolution which we echoed with a declaration by the 27 member states. and we are looking at operational ways to help protect international shipping in close collaboration with those who are committed to the same principles that ensure maritime safety in the region, including operation keeper of prosperity. we must also strengthen the palestinian authority to enable it to take control of gaza. she is ready for this, but she needs help. the european union will continue to play its part in this respect. last december, the commission adopted a €118.4 million aid plan to assist the palestinian authority. mr president, honourable members of parliament, members of the commission, even if we do not agree on the causes and solutions to the current crisis, we must not lose sight of the situation as a whole and of the long-term objective of a two-state solution based on international parameters, including a palestinian state that could ensure lasting security for palestinians and israelis alike. the 27 member states as a whole, and the vast majority of this assembly, agree on this point and this must be our strategic priority as we look for a way out of the current crisis.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, minister lahbib, more than three months after the beginning of the israeli military operation against hamas, triggered by the horrific terrorist attacks of 7 october, the humanitarian situation in gaza is tragic. the number of civilian casualties in gaza, including a very high proportion of children, is unacceptable. the protection of civilians is of utmost importance, and israel must do more to exercise maximum restraint. respect for international humanitarian law is imperative and non-negotiable. this is a message that we consistently pass to israel, and hamas must release all hostages without preconditions. while israel maintains its military objectives to destroy hamas, with 60% of housing stock and infrastructure destroyed, humanitarian actors already describe gaza as an unliveable place. a new humanitarian pause is needed now. the situation is worsening by the day, with 85% of the population now being displaced, often living in the open and facing the risk of famine and disease. the eu is doing its part to contribute to alleviate the humanitarian crisis, with more than eur 100 million in humanitarian aid in 2023. there have been some positive steps like the opening of the kerem shalom crossing, but clearly more is needed. humanitarian aid and access need to be considerably scaled up. humanitarian actors, including the united nations, whose role is central to the relief effort, need to be given unfettered access across gaza, including the north. the war has regional consequences at the border between israel and lebanon, but also in the red sea and in iraq and syria. efforts must continue to prevent further escalation, and the eu and its partners will continue to be actively engaged in this end. the fragile situation in the west bank only adds to the risk of spillover. in 2023, and since the beginning of this year, we have seen unprecedented levels of extremist settler attacks, forced displacement of palestinian communities and extensive movement restrictions. the palestinian economy is also hampered by israel withholding palestinian tax revenues. in any future scenario for the day after, the palestinian authority must be reinvigorated and ultimately return to gaza. they are ready for this, but a lot of help is needed. the eu will continue to play its part. in december 2023, the commission adopted a eur 118.4 million assistance package to support the palestinian authority. a larger midterm package will be put forward in 2024. this will aim to convey support to the palestinian authority and lay the ground for longer-term economic and political stability in gaza and in the west bank. amid the humanitarian tragedy unfolding in gaza, unrwa and other un agencies are playing a crucial role in facing enormous challenges. i wish to pay tribute to their staff, who do irreplaceable, lifesaving work at great risk to their own lives. we frontloaded the 2023 eu contribution to unrwa in february last year. we hope to do the same in 2024, and we have encouraged arab and gulf partners to increase their contributions. altogether, we provided almost eur 110 million in funding to unrwa in 2023, including a top up of eur 10 million last november to help unrwa face the enormous challenges in gaza. and a substantial increase in our humanitarian support: quadrupled to over eur 100 million in total last year. as already mentioned, even higher levels of humanitarian aid are being mobilised for this year. to conclude, the eu is firmly committed to work on multiple parallel tracks, stepping up humanitarian assistance, preventing regional spillover of the conflict and working towards a peaceful two-state solution. i am looking forward to our discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we all want the conflict – in this room also – the conflict in the middle east to end. but, minister, apart from five minutes talking about israel, it would be good, and it would be a european solution, if you would dedicate maybe one second to talk about hamas, hezbollah, and about future perspectives. that would be a european solution. but your people forgot about it. as nobody can turn a blind eye to the losses of human life in gaza and the humanitarian challenges faced by the palestinian people. true. as we cannot forget either the pain of the israeli families waiting in despair for the return of their loved ones. we all want it to end, and there is a solution for that: the release of israeli hostages and the demilitarisation of gaza. on 19 october, this parliament agreed by a compelling majority that hamas can no longer be part of the future of palestine. as we have always done, we keep supporting a two-state solution. but sustainable peace cannot exist as long as hamas and other terrorist groups hijack the palestinian cause and threaten the existence of israel, the only democracy of the region. remember, we are talking about two parts, okay? not only one. we cannot ignore either the elephant in the room, the puppet master: iran. it is now clearer than ever who is behind and benefiting from this crisis. do we want to be puppets of the regime? by failing to keep our unity, we are just taking us further away from peace. dear colleagues, at some point this parliament will have to make a clear choice to say no to those who murder women, homosexuals, christians, jews; to say no to those who reject our democratic principles and deny israel’s right to exist; or face a future where iran and their proxies will succeed in denying any hope for democracy and peace in the middle east. make no mistake: europe is the next target. from the beginning, our position was clear. october resolution that we made. we set the conditions for peace. i hope – and the epp will collaborate – that we will do this this time again.
the commissioner, madam minister, has been in this terrible conflict for more than a hundred days. for more than a hundred days, families of the hostages have been waiting for a sign of life. more than 10,000 children have been killed by bombing, by lack of care, by famine. this suffering must stop, and i've been hearing that for a hundred days now. the only way to stop it is to have a permanent ceasefire. yes, europe must help israel stop the terrorist organization hamas, but war also knows its limits and its rules. where can the 2 million palestinians who seek safety and care go? we voted here three months ago for a very strong, almost unanimous resolution, but we are now three months ahead. we need to reinforce that message now. we will be negotiating with the main negotiators immediately. it's very clear to me: we must continue to strive for a permanent ceasefire, for that two-state solution. and i know it, europe is not in the lead to resolve this conflict. but if we want to play a role on the geopolitical stage, if we want to be a player, we need to speak with one voice now. i therefore call on all of you here today to come to a good position later in the negotiations on which we can vote unanimously here in the european parliament so that we can show the outside world: for europe, this is our priority. so let us also stop firing at each other between member states and the parties. we're going to negotiate and we're going to try to put together a good text.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, 100 days of war in gaza, 100 days of death, destruction and human failure. after the massacre of hundreds of innocent israeli citizens on 7 october, the massacre of thousands of innocent palestinian citizens in the 100 days that have followed. violence breeds violence and international humanitarian law today lies under the rubble of gaza. i do not question the need to respond to address atrocities such as the ones on 7 october. what i do question is that there was no way to respond other than the one that has claimed the lives of nearly 20 000 people so far. the one that has wiped out 1% of the population of gaza: 10 000 children, entire families, journalists, doctors, teachers and workers from international agencies. you won’t convince me that there was no other way to retaliate against hamas. this carnage must stop now. both sides must cease hostilities and reach a permanent ceasefire. all hostages have to be released, and the eu should be using now fully our leverage to help stop this war. let international justice take its course. let the courts, including the icj, do their work so that war crimes and crimes against humanity that may have been committed don’t go unpunished. let us insist again and again that this entire vicious circle of violence and hatred will never stop until there is an independent palestinian state that guarantees the security of israel and a state of israel that is ready to live side by side with a viable, internationally recognised palestinian state.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, 100 days, 100 days that israel bombs gaza without ceasefire and massacres more than 300 innocent people a day, and already more than ten thousand children. 100 days that netanyahu is fulfilling the israeli far-right's dreadful dream: eradicate palestine and its people. 100 days ago, with my group of the left, i came here to ask you to act for peace in our parliament. but today, my colleagues, our work and determination are finally paying off. the european parliament is finally preparing to call for a ceasefire against the right-wing and far-right. but if you have come to your senses, dear colleagues, then call for justice, by supporting south africa's initiative, to appeal to the international court of justice to establish the genocidal nature of israel's action, but also by suspending our partnership agreement with israel and halting our arms exports to israel. in short, my colleagues, by ceasing to complicit ourselves with the european union. in 100 days, more than 24,000 palestinians have died. let's not wait for another day or another death to demand justice and peace.
mr president, if it's not genocide by the israeli state or for more than 100 days slaughter and expulsion of the palestinian people from their territories, then what is it? the following is the list of the relevant data: 24,000 dead, 70% children, 60,000 wounded, thousands missing and a people facing the threat of famine without food, water, hospitals, medicine, electricity and fuel. we therefore support south africa's appeal to the un international court of justice to convict the state of israel of genocide against the palestinians. we condemn the missile attacks by the united states, britain and yemen that have made the situation in the red sea even more explosive. the european union has a very strong position on the issue of the european union, and it is not only the european union that is responsible for this, but also for the european union. we demand that the greek government be involved in this crime. now stop the massacre in gaza! the israeli occupation of the palestinian territories should be ended. an independent palestinian state on the border before june 1967, with east jerusalem as its capital.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. we had a resolution here in october with broad consensus. i think that we should be able to do something about it. there's been a lot that hasn't changed since october. hamas continues to fire on israel, and israel continues to react. and because hamas is still shooting and the hostages have not been released, we are also in this terrible humanitarian situation of the people of gaza. yes, israel must also abide by international humanitarian law, and we call on the government to act very precisely there and to make sure that the civilians are not affected in this way by the fighting. i think we have every reason to insist, given the supply situation, that we get regular humanitarian breaks. it is important that the united nations that all those who deliver the aid can get there, even to the north of gaza. i therefore call on the israeli government not only to open kerem shalem but also to open the border crossings directly to the north for supplies. and then israel can also control what goes into it and make sure no weapons are transported there. so, the hostages and the people there must be at the center of our concerns. but we also have to think about the future, and this should perhaps be the focus of the debate once hamas hopefully soon puts down its arms.
mr president, commissioner, i call on my colleagues to vote for this ambitious resolution which sends a strong message. the european parliament considers that all civilian lives are worthwhile, whether israeli, palestinian or lebanese. our position is balanced. a ceasefire in gaza will ensure the release of all israeli hostages from hamas and ensure humanitarian aid to the civilian population of gaza, which has nothing to do with the conflict. humanitarian aid is on the decline in gaza. i was able to see this on the spot with an official renew delegation at the rafah terminal. i have seen the distress of international humanitarian teams who cannot help the victims. i have seen civilians, women and children wounded, completely foreign to the conflict, but victims of bombing. a civilian life on the one hand is worth a civilian life on the other. let us be ready to respond to the inhuman spectacle that is unfolding before our eyes.
mr president, what is gaza's name? a war started on 7 october by hamas, which knew the consequences and chose to make the palestinian people a martyr nation. before october 7, there were no israeli troops or settlements in gaza. there was hamas and it did nothing for its people. we were the ones who were helping the palestinians in gaza. meanwhile, hamas was devoting its energy and resources to its only project: the destruction of israel. this project, this war, is also the iranian regime's. he too is incapable of meeting the expectations of his people. but there's one thing he's attached to, his ability to harm, and he's using it like never before. who supports hamas? iran. who is supporting hezbollah in lebanon? bashar in syria? the houthis in the red sea, the militias that take on the kurds and the anti-daesh coalition in iraq? who supplies weapons to russia in ukraine? iran. so yes, we must help the palestinian people out of the hell they are in. yes, we need massive humanitarian aid and for it to be distributed, we need to keep the guns quiet. is hamas calling for a ceasefire? no, he wants to continue the war. the palestinian people deserve to live in peace, to have a state and to stop colonization. supporting the palestinian people also means helping them to get out of the shackles in which hamas wanted to trap them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question blue card)
the question is "blue card". mrs loiseau, over 24,000 palestinians have already died in the gaza strip, including 10,000 children, under israeli bombs. and i think you will agree that the least we owe the palestinians who are under the bombs is clarity. i regret that the renaissance group, and in this case stéphane séjourné himself at the last conference of presidents, supported the abolition of the term 'permanent' in our parliament's call for a ceasefire. so my question is very clear: do you call for a permanent halt to the massacre or do you just ask for a pause while israel restores its missile stockpile to continue to decimate the palestinian people?
the answer is "blue card". i am not saying that the palestinian authority is not a terrorist organization, but that it is a terrorist organization. so my question, mrs aubry, is: do you call on hamas to finally stop martyring the palestinian people and call for a ceasefire that this people desperately needs?
the reaction is "blue card". i'm not saying you're not answering my question. i'm here to condemn all war criminals, all those who commit war crimes. but i ask you a very clear question: do you call for a permanent ceasefire for the palestinians who are now under israeli bombing? and i have a second question. since you are talking about arms, the european union is complicit and is sending millions of euros of arms to israel. so will you ask the european union to stop its cooperation in this massacre and call for a permanent ceasefire and an end to its arms sales? and i hope this time i will have a slightly clearer answer.
the reaction is "blue card". i see, mrs aubry, that you are talking about a world that does not exist. you have hamas that doesn't want a ceasefire, you have an israeli government that doesn't want a ceasefire, and you give yourself a good conscience by calling for a ceasefire. it's free, it doesn't eat bread. you are well, you are in the european parliament. i went to israel, to the kibbutz where people were slaughtered, tortured, taken hostage. i have seen unrwa know that some of its humanitarian aid is now being diverted to hamas, which wants to continue the war. i simply ask you, mrs aubry, to look at what is happening and not to let hamas promote its plan to destroy israel. he'll always find me in his way.
mr. president, 100 days of war. a total war. a terrible war. how can we get there? how can you continue to watch what's happening in gaza without moving, without reacting? i was asking that question in december. a month later, more civilians, more children and women were killed, more journalists fell to the front, more ambulances were targeted, more hospitals closed, more homes demolished. and it's not just the bombing. there is a siege, a total, inhuman siege, which alone constitutes a war crime. a month later, more children were amputated, more women had cesarean sections without anesthesia, more hunger, more cold, more despair. so yes, we must call for a permanent ceasefire now. but above all, it must be imposed, sanctions must be imposed, and elements of genocide must not be allowed to be established. it is no longer time to question the balance of positions in this conflict. it's not balanced. there's a busy one, there's a busy one. we must be against the occupation, we must be firm, we must make decisions, we must commit ourselves, because that is also politics.
mr president, the humanitarian situation in gaza continues, and we must keep this urgent topic on our agenda. along with our strongest condemnation of the events on 7 october, we reiterate our calls to hamas to realise to release all the remaining hostages. the ongoing conflict has become regional, accompanied with even more significant global implications. these will mostly be to the detriment of the european union. humanitarian aid cannot be part of political games. instead, it must be based on clear conditionality rules that are being respected. further to the facilitation of humanitarian aid, we need a political solution and the ceasing of the series of military actions that continue causing civilian victims. every country, including israel, has the right to defend itself within the limits of international law. the only viable, hopefully feasible solution is for two sovereign and democratic states living side by side in peace and security. the european union should mobilise all its efforts to achieve it.
mr president, 1 139 israelis were killed, including 36 children. 24,000 gazans killed, including 8,000 children, and more than 60,000 wounded, almost all without care. thousands of gazans disappeared, 100 journalists killed, 1 million displaced, more than half of gaza's hospitals closed, 70% of homes damaged or destroyed by bombing, 136 israeli hostages still missing, an imminent un famine and a risk of escalation and spread of the conflict throughout the region at its height. this disaster happened before our eyes in just 100 days. this is an absolute tragedy and we cannot resolve to wait for the israeli army to finish its intensive phase soon, as announced. we call for an immediate ceasefire to end the destruction of gaza and the gaza people, to help civilians and the wounded, to free all the hostages, to stop the burning of the region and finally to build the foundations for a lasting peace solution by creating a palestinian state along the 1967 borders with jerusalem as the shared capital. courageous people don't fear forgiving for the sake of peace, nelson mandela.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, president modi's india is a key player in the multipolar world. invited to the celebrations on 14 july in france, the indian head of state is now recognized as a major player in international diplomacy. the european institutions are always more wise than the states. our parliament has been increasing attacks on the indian president a few months ago. it is therefore welcome that our relations with india are finally receiving the investment they deserve. the eu-india meeting, announced in the first half of 2024, must be a success. for this to happen, brussels must take a realistic approach to new delhi. so let us be clear: our relationship with india must be based on mutual interest and cannot be presented as a challenge to china or russia. one in five people on our planet is indian. we must be the first of the privileged partners of the world's greatest democracy. if we make our relationship with india a challenge to emerging powers, we would show new delhi that our interest is only in the short term, even though india is the g20 economy that has been growing the most steadily since 2014. such a policy requires that we support india's fight against islamist terrorism in jammu and kashmir and against the interference of pakistani networks in the conflict. europe must stand with those who are fighting against the development of islamist separatism in jammu and kashmir. we will support this resolution because it recognises the urgency of deepening our relations with india.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. european foreign trade faces serious challenges today. we must recognize that europe's interest is not to block the world economy, but to develop economic connections. the economic partners of the future are in asia and in particular india. the development of trade relations therefore benefits not only hungary but the whole of central europe. the result of the linkage-based trade policy would open up opportunities for cooperation in areas such as r & d, innovation, technology transfer, water management, culture, tourism and the health and pharmaceutical industries. however, if we link the development of trade relations to ideological conditions rather than to the recognition of interdependence, we are subordinating the interests of europe and our region.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today more than ever, in a global context of unstable political crises and significant geopolitical challenges, including increased competition between the great powers, the strategic partnership between the european union and india must certainly be strengthened. although cooperation between the union and india has grown over the years, demonstrating the strong political, economic, social and cultural links that exist, this cooperation has not yet reached its full potential. a new and ambitious strategic partnership should therefore be prepared and come into effect in 2025, when the union-india roadmap signed in 2020 is completed. closer cooperation between the union and india, based on several priority areas such as climate, environment, energy, health, human rights, respect for human rights, digitalisation and transport, can make a positive contribution to prosperity, global stability, regional security and maintaining a shared vision of effective rule-based multilateralism. the european union must therefore work to ensure that these conditions are met, so as to make the strategic partnership with india ever more solid and concrete, in the interests of the citizens of two of the world's largest democracies.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a month ago i visited india and my political group was the most represented on this official mission. the reason is that we believe that cooperation with india is strategic, and even geostrategic, towards china. i therefore particularly welcome this balanced report which highlights the opportunities for enhanced relations between india and the european union, without hiding the progress that must be made on climate and particularly human rights. however, there is one subject on which i would like to turn, which is india's investment in education. india has a population of 1.4 billion people, 40% of whom are under 25. it has lifted 400 million people out of poverty in 15 years. and it is now an engineering country that irrigates the biggest us tech companies. let us take the example and above all strengthen our academic partnerships. in addition to trade, we need exchanges of skills and know-how to innovate in europe. india is a designated partner and interlocutor.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the peacock was the symbol of india, it will be the tiger. it was india, it will be bharat. india affirms the unity of its model of life for all its citizens in the name of hinduism. i therefore believe that cooperation with india must go far beyond trade, economic and commercial matters. we must work for political cooperation because if president emmanuel macron has theorized strategic autonomy, narendra modi is achieving it. the policy of india's multi-alignment, the policy of pursuing its own national interest, which makes india the fastest growing country of all the major countries in the world, must move us to political cooperation beyond economic cooperation. we have, in a mutual respect that excludes any teaching attitude, we have to work with india for the coming of a world that is no longer unipolar, or bipolar and perhaps not multipolar, a world that is not polar, a world that respects diversity, respects the freedom of peoples and is also the path to peace.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, it is paradoxical to discuss preventive diplomacy in a parliament which is characterized by its constant refusal to accept realism in foreign policy. the best way to operate preventive diplomacy for the european union is to support peace efforts. the least we can say is that brussels has done nothing to enforce the minsk agreements and prevent war in ukraine. worse, the european union imposes on nations directions contrary to their history and neighbourhood. in the balkans, for example, brussels is trying to impose on serbia and the serbian republic of bosnia an atlanticist tropism which unnecessarily increases tensions throughout the area. the project of a european superstate that would claw at national prerogatives in stages has been rejected by the peoples of europe on many occasions, because the peoples of europe know that peace is always the result of realistic negotiations between the states and never the result of an ideological project developed by a few technocrats. let us leave diplomacy to nations whose sovereignty it is, and to diplomats whose profession it is. it will be our best contribution to peace.
madam president, when you speak to us about preventive diplomacy, it is not a question of the european union, by pacifism or humanism, avoiding conflicts in the world. this is about expanding the european union's competence in international relations. your agenda is determined by what you want to be or look like, which is an internationally recognized state. we challenge your imperial vision and believe that only states, real states, historical and recognized states have the authority to solve world conflicts. the eu has neither the vocation nor the legitimacy to intervene in political diplomacy. the european parliament has been very active in the field of education and training. the rest, let the nations make, the real nations.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, madam ombudsman, mr commissioner, the bubble of delusion is about to burst. the illusion of fabulous pfizer contracts, wonderful inventories, this bubble is going to burst. and it is also thanks to the european ombudsman that i welcome you very much: you have fought with talent for transparency against an administration that is a champion of mismanagement. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states. no response to text messages, no response to the benefits-risks in young people, no response to the dosage stock or the prices. the lack of transparency, the suspicion of conflicts of interest, the systematic avoidance of liability indicate a leak forward. mr president, i would like to thank you for your report which is very boldly quoting pfizer. mr terheş, your amendments are excellent. mrs o'reilly, you have rightly investigated and criticized the commission for its lack of transparency and accountability. more broadly, we understood, it was a culture of service and respect for fundamental rights that were at stake. let us list the podium of the commission's least transparent services each year, such as the health department, which, after the slapping of its director in an american laboratory, after the pfizer contract scandal, why does the commission hide documents relating to the european health data area, or the documents promised in a hearing by emer cooke, the director of the european medicines agency? as for your investigation into the tobacco lobby and the who, it is very useful and i thank you. let's also target lobbies in pharmaceutical labs and bill gates foundations. madam mediatrix, i thank you once again for your precious work and service and i wish you all the best and most of all my best wishes for this new year.
on behalf of the band the left. the commission has not yet decided on the basis of the present proposal. the reality is that you're giving in to mr. orban's whims. you are playing the game of this institutional hostage-taking organised by hungary that blocks aid to ukraine and prevents the revision of the european budget. but we're gonna have a straight talk. it would be a little easy to hide behind the hungarian president's bottles. we have said this for some time already: this european budget is totally insufficient to meet the social and environmental challenges of the moment. and in the face of this, you have consistently rejected our proposals to increase the resources of the european union, for example, by accident, by contributing to the multinational and richest companies that continue, year after year, to raise indecent sums. i'll just give you one example. in my country, france, 42 billionaires made 230 billion euros in one year, the equivalent of a cheque of 3,400 euros for every frenchman. at the same time, shareholders received a settlement of almost 100 billion euros in dividends last year. and on the other hand, we have a third of europeans skipping meals and people dying on the streets of our states. the equation is simple: we have a minority of privileged people who are gathered in davos right now. i don't know if you will go, mrs von der leyen. but your committee, the right wing and the liberals in this parliament have consistently refused to go and get the money, the money they have to get by blocking the margins of the multinational companies that are getting rich and by contributing the billionaires who are making their living. instead, you pay people, people who are miserable, people by destroying public services, weakening labour rights, demanding unjust reforms, pensions and unemployment benefits. what's all this about? to satisfy your sacred budgetary rules that bring back austerity. this is the real issue that nobody is talking about today and that should be a concern for all of us. i'm putting out the alarm here. we have before us the greatest cure for budgetary austerity ever seen on our continent. and it's not coming out of nowhere, madame von der leyen, it's your direct responsibility. seriously, i have a question for you. don't you think that our daycare centers aren't overloaded enough, that 30,000 beds have been removed from hospitals in my country, france, since 2017, that it's not enough that our hospitals are very healthy, that there aren't enough teachers already in our public schools, that our medicines and medical consultations aren't already expensive enough, that electricity prices aren't high enough, and that we need to cut government subsidies? and you said to yourself: with the zealous support of the european states, eureka! let's do worse! we call on the states to make even greater sacrifices to public services. i conclude, madam president, since the president of the renew group is not even the president of the verhofstadt group, he has had a little more time. i'll finish, i'll be a while, i promise. in my country, france, the application of these new budgetary rules will mean cuts in public spending of 22 billion euros a year. so ok, that's only 12 percent of bernard arnault's fortune, but in real life, down to the state budget, that would be the equivalent of eliminating 623,000 teachers. i would like to say that this is a social massacre, to which you add a democratic scandal, dear colleagues, since a coalition of the social democrats and the liberals and the right together is trying to gain power. perhaps you were inspired by president macron to import france's 49.3 to europe, well, i'm telling you, we won't let you do it.
mr president, european democracy may be dying. this is not an overdramatic sentence that i’m using to get your attention: it is exactly what is happening because of the resistible rise of one man – the prime minister of hungary. not only has he created a quasi-autocracy on the soil of the european union, not only has he eroded civil liberties and now fundamental rights for his own people and set a frightening example, not only has he put a foot in the middle of the system and become the voice of the kremlin around the table, but over the last few years he has been playing you: blackmailing every member state more and more, and in a systematic way. the eu has made this politician stronger. the commission gave him the money to capture power and install his oligarchy, and the council empowered him by accepting to give him leverage and set the rules. at the end of your presidency, belgians, you will be giving this man the keys of the house. this will pave the way for him to set the agenda, say whatever he wants about russia and ukraine and represent the eu in our name. it is inconceivable. but the leaders of europe have decided to not do anything about it. it is time to take the game out of his hands. belgian presidency, you need to put back the recommendations on the table. you have already started working on this. you can find the needed qualified majority. how is it possible that today we are still not having enough member states around the table who are courageous enough to vote on a simple recommendation? you need to prepare for the future, and that means article 7.2. it is time to seriously think about withdrawing the voting rights of viktor orbán. but most of all, today, you urgently need to find a way to not give the presidency of the eu to a quasi-autocrat. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from edina tóth)
mr president, i want to talk to you today about the plight of those who feed us. as a wind of anger is blowing through europe, we must say here that agriculture as we love it is not destined to disappear. while one in three french farmers live on almost €350 a month, and the number of farms is falling year after year, our agricultural model has a social plan that does not mention its name. at this time, those who never count their hours and efforts must now count what they have left at the end of the month. you cannot ignore the despair of those who have the great and beautiful mission of feeding the peoples of europe. the european union is heavily responsible for this desperation, increasingly imposing standards, scorn and reproach on our farmers. with the so-called 'farm to fork' strategy inspired by punitive ecology, you're inflicting double punishment on them. you are reducing yields and incomes for our producers and at the same time encouraging imports of products from the rest of the world that do not meet any of the standards you impose on our farmers. while there is no humanity without food, no sovereignty without agriculture, you hinder their work, you underestimate their merit, you impoverish their profession. in the face of the growing peasant anger, with the protests in the netherlands, germany and france, as yesterday in avignon and toulouse, i say this with all seriousness, by becoming the voice of our campaigns, that the state of agricultural emergency must be declared: exemption from transmission tax, moratorium on free trade agreements, end of punitive ecology, price guarantee, priority in public order, normative sobriety for the survival, sustainability and renewal of our agriculture. we need to act and do it fast. the survival of a powerful agriculture in an uncertain world depends not only on our food security in the 21st century but also on our heritage. agriculture is a strategic sector that forges our economy, our land and our territories as much as it symbolizes our heritage and identity. act to protect our freedoms, act for them, for our farmers and our countryside before it's too late.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 february we will be looking at what will happen in brussels. it will not be a summit like the others, because what will be decided is the path europe will take for the next few years. the reality, colleagues, is that leaders have no choice. since 24 february 2022, ukrainians have been fighting bravely to defend their territory and thus that of the european union. ensuring that their hospitals, their schools, their administrations are still functioning is to avoid the collapse of the ukrainian state. the same crucial, of course, is support for military capabilities, because if ukraine were to collapse, it would be the european union itself and all its states that would be insecure. that is why, madam minister, viktor orban cannot dictate his law to all his partners. it's time for the 26 to get their hands on each other. this is essential for ukraine, but also for our other current challenges: immigration, the production of strategic goods on our soil, but also the sound management of our debt, without forcing parliament to cut into the programmes that make our europe famous, without betraying the promises of the grand european recovery plan. we will pay special attention to this here in the european parliament, and you can be sure of that when negotiations with parliament begin. but for now, commissioner, you have the heavy task of helping your european council counterpart work towards an agreement between the states. i would like to remind you that where there is ambition, we will of course support this path with all the demands that major decisions require.
mr president, i would like to go back to the main points, since the council's conclusions mention the reform of the treaties which is indeed indispensable. we must also be aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. the fact is that we are, i believe, going in the wrong direction, by first wanting to transfer more and more powers to the european union, as an exclusive competence on the environment, by creating the possibility for the european commission to lift taxation by qualified majority, that is, without the agreement of all the member states. it is a general weakening of the member states that is characterized by the idea of passing a large number of decisions from the qualified majority to the simple majority, or by the fact that the council could not even take part in the decision on the composition of the european parliament, which is not done in any democracy in the world. we are not representatives of a federal state. we are an association of democracies and europe's aim is to strengthen our democracies to make them more sovereign. to commit to the right direction is probably what citizens expect.
the report is not yet available. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. we are now dealing here in this report with the so-called global virtual space, which we commonly refer to as the metaverse in some way. and we should not, as with social media, fail to raise a regulation or even questions, but instead focus here on what questions will come to us tomorrow. we have more questions than answers in this report, of course, but this is the starting point for dealing with them properly. we're all pretty sure that the rules we decide today should actually apply to the virtual world. only they won't all fit, and that's why we come to certain questions: who will be our contractual partner in the metaverse? do we need an id management system there? which court will still have jurisdiction? what right is applicable at all? do the avatars that are out there need a legal personality? and these are the questions we want to answer here.
the report is not yet available. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, imagine a life where simple things like lighting up or keeping food cool are a luxury. this is the daily reality for hundreds of millions of people. access to clean and reliable energy is a driving force for development. access to electricity helps to develop children's education, ensuring quality medical care and livelihoods for communities. it is also an important driver for gender equality. but in many developing countries, energy infrastructure remains insufficient. the use of traditional and polluting energy sources has devastating consequences for health and the environment. the european union is investing heavily in energy projects in africa, but we have focused on large infrastructure, often neglecting local needs. it is time to refocus our efforts on local and small-scale projects, such as installing solar panels in villages or replacing wood with low-emission stoves. we must end all funding for fossil fuel projects and give priority to renewable energy that is environmentally friendly to local communities and climate. we must act now by working together, supporting innovation and financing sustainable projects. we can guarantee that access to energy is no longer a luxury but a reality for all. the energy future of developing countries is directly relevant to us. investing in clean energy today is building a safer, more sustainable world for tomorrow. i would urge you to adopt this text as adopted by the committee on development.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is fundamental and sets the stage for what will be the next stage in the digital revolution: the web 4.0 and the virtual worlds. we have experienced the different digital transitions of the web in the european union without paying enough attention to them. our single market, devoid of digital legislation, became the playground of the big platforms, which settled here imposing their own rules and self-regulating. this has undoubtedly weakened the competitiveness of our companies, especially our smes, and has created an immense cost to our citizens in terms of privacy. we cannot, and should not, leave anything to private companies again that will continue to transform our lives and our society. we have learned from our mistakes as evidenced by the impressive work we have done this legislature with the digital services act, the digital markets act, the data act or the artificial intelligence act, among others. however, we've always been late. in this report, we highlight the priorities of european talent, digital skills training, the competitiveness of our companies, the protection of citizens, especially of the most vulnerable people such as children, innovation, accessibility and inclusion of people with disabilities and an appropriate telecommunications infrastructure for the increased data traffic forecast for this decade. i would like to congratulate the alternative speakers on this report, in which we lay the foundation for europe's digital competitiveness, always in line with our values and principles, and by placing the citizen at the centre. i therefore ask for a vote in favour of this report. we have the opportunity in this new digital transition to put the european union at the forefront and thus to be a relevant player in an increasingly digitalised world. we must not make the mistakes of the past again.
the vote is closed. (the sitting is adjourned at 1.01 p.m.)
college boys! let's continue with the plenary session! the minutes of the evening session and the text adopted are available. are there any comments on the minutes of the evening session? if not, the protocol is approved.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on current issues (article 162 of the rules of procedure) on quality workplaces in a competitive, future-oriented social market economy. i would like to inform members that there will be no free microphone procedure and no blue cards will be accepted in these debates.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you first of all for organising a debate on this very important issue and for inviting us to participate. i would like to open my speech first on a positive note. the most recent figures released by the european commission show that the labour market in the european union is strong. indeed, an employment rate of 75.4% was recorded last year and both unemployment and longterm unemployment are at their lowest levels. these figures indicate that the european union has made good progress towards achieving its 2030 target, in any event for the labour market. however, we see a serious shortage of labour and skills in the future in the european union. member states are thus faced with major challenges such as unfavourable demographic trends, rapid digital transformation and new skills needs. there is no simple solution or universal solution to the current situation, but it is important to build an economy that places the human being at the centre of its policies. and the best way to do that is to go through the creation of quality jobs. quality employment is not simply defined by numbers and statistics. these are conditions under which individuals and businesses contribute to society. the commission has also proposed a new directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to a fair trial. good quality jobs promote a sense of common interest. in recent years, when jobs in the council are also mentioned, the term 'competence' has been cited as a determining factor in job creation, particularly quality jobs. the need for adequate skills is both for the digital and ecological transition. and these two transitions also open up opportunities for quality jobs. to make full use of this, we must invest in education, training and skills development. this is the step to take to ensure that our working population can adapt to technological advances. by fostering a culture of lifelong learning, we give everyone the opportunity to seize the opportunities offered by the ever-changing world of work. the initiatives undertaken under the european year of skills, launched in may, are making a decisive contribution to the general view that conversion and development are crucial for creating quality jobs and for enabling lifelong learning. i would also like to stress the importance of the social economy for better quality of employment. the companies and organisations that make up the social economy are essential for promoting skills development and for the social inclusion of vulnerable groups in the labour market. in 2022, parliament stressed in its important resolution the potential impact of the social economy. the council took a major step last year, taking advantage of this impetus, by adopting a recommendation on the establishment of the framework conditions for the social economy. finally, i cannot finish without addressing the question of gender in the labour market. women remain underrepresented in european labour markets and, although there has been a slight improvement in the latest figures released by the commission, the gender pay gap remains considerable. we must do more to improve the availability and access to early childhood education and care services and long-term care services, affordable and of high quality. and it is with this in mind that the council adopted recommendations on early childhood and long-term healthcare in 2022. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights in the workplace. i look forward to our future discussions on these and other aspects of the debate on the challenges europe must face to guarantee quality jobs in a digital and green future.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear representative of the presidency, dear members, let me thank you for choosing quality jobs as a subject for the topical debate of this plenary. this is timely in view of the current economic and social juncture. fostering quality jobs in a future-oriented social market economy requires policies, investments and reforms to support innovative and competitive sectors and businesses while improving the working and living conditions of millions of people. a consistent and coordinated approach between economic, industrial and labour market policies is needed at eu and national level, building on the single market as a cornerstone of our social market economy. over the last few years, the eu labour market has remained remarkably resilient in spite of the energy crisis, the pandemic, russia's brutal war of aggression in ukraine and the rising cost of living. and i think the figures have been mentioned by the representative of the president: unemployment has now stabilised at a record low of around 6%; in total, more than 216 million people are employed. however, there are still too many who are left out of the labour market, such as 8 million young people not in employment, education or training. the european economy is facing many challenges. first, the need to strengthen its competitiveness in a world that is less and less a rules-based system, governed by shared values. second, the need to become future-proof by tackling the demographic, digital and also, most importantly, the green transition, the need to remain a social market economy, which is embedded in the dna of the european project, which includes also social dialogue and collective bargaining. the roots of this model go back to the creation of the single market under the leadership of the late jacques delors, who combined competitiveness and social standards and social cohesion. today, we see that labour shortages are a major economic challenge, notably driven by skills shortages, hurdles to labour mobility and legal migration, the need to improve activation policies and the poor working conditions of certain jobs and sectors. these challenges hinder fairness, sustainable growth, competitiveness and also innovation. stakeholders, including social partners, tell us that this is a key concern for them. europe can only be competitive if it is also social. to fully embrace the transitions and create quality jobs, we need to invest in our human capital, adapt our education and training systems, and reinforce our capacity to upskill and reskill our workforce, protect the health and safety of working people, particularly their mental health. this is why former prime ministers mario draghi and enrico letta have been tasked to design a path towards further strengthening our competitiveness and our single market. social fairness and social cohesion must be at the heart of both endeavours. the pursuit of both is strongly linked to the global race for clean tech. we have key initiatives in place for this, the green deal industrial plan that enhances the competitiveness of europe's net zero industry and is accelerating the transition to climate neutrality. a recent study shows that if we boost investments – private and public – in clean tech, we will not only be able to achieve our goals in reducing co2 emissions, we also can – or will – create 2.4 million jobs. the same thing applies to the digital economy. the rapid expansion of this economy is another major aspect of our economic future. artificial intelligence is transforming many jobs. it will allow us to restore a certain number of activities as the security of supply chains becomes more and more important. the consequences of algorithms have to be taken seriously, but the jobs of the future are very much linked to these technological developments. it will have an impact on many sectors. given our demographic change, europe's economic and industrial future depends on our capacity to be at the forefront of this technological revolution. this also means that we have to invest in the right skills, as well as in r&d and new companies, start-ups. under next generation eu, the 27 national recovery and resilience plans, funded by the recovery and resilience facility, make around eur 250 billion available for green measures and a similar amount of money also for the digitalisation of our economy. quality jobs are the fuel of the virtuous dynamic we aim at. propelling a competitive economy in transition requires quality jobs and strong social protection induces also quality jobs. quality jobs are based on safe and sound working conditions. we need fair and adequate remuneration as well as career prospects. and, as it has been said by the representative of the presidency, equality and inclusive labour market equality means first also gender equality. ending precariousness and ensuring quality jobs are especially important in sectors where working conditions must improve, such as the services, care and industrial sectors. these are the sectors where labour shortages are the most pressing. a firm commitment to quality jobs should also be reflected in the ongoing implementation of the national recovery and resilience plans. in the last five years, we have worked hard towards improving the quality of jobs in line also with the european pillar of social rights action plan; we are helping workers to ensure that work pays with the minimum wage directive; we are supporting fair and decent working conditions with a certain number of measures or directives in the occupational safety and health and the proposed directive on platform work. and again, i refer to the conference the swedish presidency had organised on occupational safety and health. we are working on education, training and skills, which are key to quality jobs, with the implementation of the skills agenda of the european education area and the european year of skills you referred to. it is a solid track record and it was only possible thanks also to the commitments of this parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group. president, mr commissioner, madam minister, we are calling for a shortage of labour in europe. we seem to find it normal for a european commissioner to say that we need 1 million migrant workers. like you can order migrant workers per kilo. the whole of europe is about exploiting its workers. workers, mostly migrant workers, are underpaid and exploited in slaughterhouses, greenhouses and supermarket warehouses. shouldn't we be honest and say that the real problem is that we have a surplus of bad work and a shortage of decent work? what do we need? the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the member states. we're gonna have to make it work with all of his stuff.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, as the competition that stimulates becomes the confrontation that divides, as the global race for clean technologies accelerates, we must build a united, sovereign, competitive europe always at the service of europeans. for this, it is essential and imperative to invest in the human, in the talents, in those who contribute to our economy. fair wages and safe working conditions are non-negotiable requirements and principles. so how is that? by investing in education and skills development, without leaving anyone behind, in our fight against climate change and digital transformation. by pushing for stricter criteria in the award of public contracts so that social criteria are finally taken into account. by ending unfair competition, including the fight against unfair foreign subsidies. and we must also guarantee reciprocity.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the coming years, discussions on the exploitation of the great seabed will be repeated. after being long ignored, the ocean is now seen as a new eldorado. its exploration reveals its richness, including mineral and genetic resources, while on land resources are dwindling. so let's not repeat the mistakes we may have made on land at sea. we have the opportunity here to prevent environmental disasters in these deep and fragile ecosystems. the scientific community is unanimous: yes to exploration, not exploitation. today, a coalition of 24 states is advocating a moratorium, as voted on several times here by the european parliament, or even a ban, as france has. it is urgent that this coalition expand within the european union and more broadly to the states currently negotiating the future international mining code. i am surprised by this decision of norway, which was also one of the first countries to sign the treaty on the conservation of biodiversity in the high seas and which has a great international influence on the conservation of the ocean. the sea beds it intends to exploit are those of the arctic ocean, which plays a fundamental role in the climate balance and should therefore be declared a large marine protected area. norway has a responsibility, as we all have, to humanity, because the ocean is our common good. he is one and we all have a common good.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. mr president, commissioner, norway has been trying for years to establish itself as the world leader in ocean protection. however, in june 2023, the norwegian government became the potential destroyer of the arctic by proposing to open its waters in the norwegian sea to large-scale mining. a time bomb for climate and marine biodiversity! but what a failure for future generations! last week, the norwegian parliament approved the exploration of a uk-sized area in the arctic following a sealed agreement between the socialists and the centre and the norwegian conservatives. the most worrying thing is that the text adopted will open the door to the exploitation of large funds, despite the mobilization of citizens, despite the mobilization of civil society, scientists, businesses and a hundred members of parliament from all over europe, around a letter to the european parliament which i initiated with my colleague marie toussaint. but we can still stop this totally destructive project. the good news is that the first mining licences will have to be subject to a new vote in the norwegian parliament. contrary to what we may be led to believe, scientists show that we do not need to dig deep into the sea to find minerals. the ecological transition requires investments in the circular economy and recycling to reuse metals already mined. our parliament and the european union must push to stop this. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
mr president, i want to speak to you. i consider the decision of the norwegian parliament to be highly questionable. the norwegian colleagues are thus endangering maritime ecosystems. and they do it without any need, because there are other ways and means. there would be ways to reduce raw material consumption, not relying on deep-sea raw materials. instead of digging deep, we should, for example, extend battery life. we should continue to explore batteries that can survive without nickel and cobalt, secure larger market shares and much more. we should recycle more, close commodity cycles and, above all, fundamentally rethink consumer and transport policies. how green is a green transformation when elementary ecosystems are endangered? the eu must advocate a global moratorium on deep-sea mining and should find clear rules banning imports of raw materials from deep-sea mining. hands off the deep sea. nothing else we should do.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for a very interesting presentation in the discussion. the commission is following the consequences of norway’s decision very closely, and we are continuing our engagement with norway in order to ensure the protection of the ecosystem from harmful activities for a healthy ocean in line with the green deal. the commission takes note of these points raised by parliament and shares many of the very same worries i have heard here today in the parliament, since we are following these latest developments on deep sea mining very closely too. the european union and norway signed a green alliance in april 2023, building on existing dialogues and initiatives aiming to reinforce mutual cooperation and exchange best practices in the areas that are fundamental to the green transition. in the spirit of the green alliance, the commission will keep an open line of communication with norway and will continue discussing and sharing our concerns in order to ensure the protection of the marine environment and the fragile arctic ecosystems. we are looking forward to the upcoming resolution of the european parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in the february i part-session. before i start the next item on the agenda, i would like to just inform you that, due to conflicting obligations, the council presidency will also not be present for the next two debates, which were added to the agenda for this part-session on monday night.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission and council communications on improving the socio-economic situation of farmers and rural areas and ensuring fair incomes, food security and fair transition (2024/2522(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for organising this debate, which is timely and much needed, given the challenges that our farmers are facing today. in the face of these challenges, we are grateful to our farmers and all those working in the sector for the food security they continue to provide. this deserves our gratitude at all times, and especially in the extremely difficult times of past years. first, with the largest pandemic in over a century. then a full-scale war in europe for the first time in 80 years – and on top of this, the dramatic and increasing climate disasters in the form of droughts, wildfires and floods. each of these crises have hit our farmers very hard. but in the face of these challenges, our farmers have continued to guarantee self-sufficiency in the european union for most agricultural products, such as grain, meat, milk, as well as fruit and vegetables. for this, we are grateful. indeed, between 2015 and 2022, added production in european agriculture increased by 28%, and income per unit of work in agriculture increased by 43%. today, the european union is the world’s largest food exporter. in 2022, the surplus of exports over imports amounted to eur 58 billion. according to our data for the first nine months of 2023, from january to september, our surplus already amounts to over eur 40 billion, with exports increasing by 5%, comparing to 2022, and imports decreasing by 2%. this is the success story of european agriculture. however, it is not the full story. there are also threats, which have raised growing concerns for our farmers, and i would like to address these concerns today. farming protests, which have flared up in some countries recently, are largely rooted in national policies. however, we must also look at these concerns from the perspective of our eu policies. the first problem is russia and its aggression against ukraine. firstly, i would also like to remind you of the aid provided to european union farmers impacted by the war in ukraine. we activated aid from the crisis reserve for this purpose. but above all, we included agriculture in the possibilities of extended national state aid. thanks to this, in 2022 and 2023, farmers in 22 countries benefited from state aid, amounting to eur 9.3 billion in total. this aid has provided crucial support to the farmers most in need. however, our full openness to agricultural imports from ukraine has unfortunately brought significant competitive threats to many of our farmers, who face a market that has radically changed. in 2021, only 16% of ukrainian agricultural exports went to the eu market. in 2022 and 2023 it is already more than half. in 2022, agriculture imports from ukraine to the european union almost doubled, from eur 7 billion to eur 13 billion. in 2023, agricultural imports from ukraine will also exceed eur 12 billion. the commission remains committed to continue supporting ukraine in these difficult times, while taking into account the european union sensitivities. we are now discussing within the commission next steps once the autonomous trade measures expire by next june, and we will of course take all these elements into consideration. the second reason for farmers’ concern is related to the green transition. firstly, let me say that during my time in office, the vast majority of farmers i have met have shared a deep concern about the environment and expressed a willingness to play their part in its conservation. however, many have also expressed concerns over their ability to comply with increasing regulations and legal obligations. currently, this concern is not focused on the common agricultural policy, but rather on legislative initiatives outside the cap – the pesticides regulation, the industrial emissions directive and the nature restoration law. i will not talk more about them, especially since they do not fall under my responsibility in the commission. however, the common agricultural policy does fall under my responsibility. there is one ‘green’ element in the new cap that has raised particular concern among farmers, and has been the subject of many initiatives, not only by farmers but also by member states. this concerns gaec 8 – in other words, the obligation to set aside at least 4% of arable land on farms over 10 hectares to ‘non-productive areas or features’. last year we suspended this obligation by a delegated act of the commission. this year, despite great pressure from farmers, we cannot repeat this derogation without amending the basic act. taking a wider perspective, after one year of implementation, i believe that we have achieved a good compromise in the common agricultural policy strategic plans, striking a balance between the productive function of agriculture and the tasks towards the environment and climate. the common agricultural policy is working. farmers have submitted application forms and are implementing eco-schemes. these are especially beneficial for active farmers, who receive payments for practices like carbon farming or animal welfare, for which they did not receive payments before. we were concerned that farmers would not take advantage of the eco-schemes and that some of the funds would be lost. however, i can assure you that this risk has not materialised and that all agricultural funds, over eur 300 billion planned for 2023 to 2027, will be used. as our discussion relates to the socio-economic situation, let me mention that addressing labour and skills shortages in the agro-food sector is of paramount importance, with implications reaching beyond the sector itself to touch on broader concerns of food security. the shortage of manpower in the sector is a critical challenge that necessitates our immediate attention. it’s not just about the quantity of people; it’s about ensuring that those contributing to the sector enjoy favourable working conditions. recognising this, it becomes imperative to persist in the implementation of social conditionality measures, and that member states’ social and labour authorities properly enforce the social legislation for which they are responsible. honourable members, in recent weeks, farmers have raised their voice in protest, and over the coming months they will have the opportunity to raise their voice again: firstly, in our strategic dialogue on the future of agriculture and later in the european elections campaign. we cannot lose these opportunities. we must use them to listen, to engage and to work with our farmers. we must not let our differences be the cause of division. too often, in our debates on food and farming, our differences present obstacles to finding solutions. but by combining our different perspectives, i believe we can create new solutions, and together we can grow a common vision for the future of european agriculture.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. in recent years, it has become a popular sport to criticize agriculture, farmers. many in politics and civil society seem to know how farmers should order their fields. and most of them, by the way, have never gotten up at 5:00 in the morning to go to the barn. and they've never seen how pests and diseases can destroy an entire crop in a matter of days if nothing is done about it. and farmers rightly refuse to accept this treatment. in the netherlands first and now in germany they are showing the politics their limits, and many people now understand that the arc has probably been stretched a little. in our agriculture, there are many well-educated people who know far more about agriculture than those who believe they need to override it with regulations and regulations, and who also understand that sustainability is important and who are also willing to implement appropriate measures. this week is the green week in berlin. for years, on this occasion, protesters have been shouting that they've had enough of the peasants. and then suddenly the farmers who are getting tired of these protesters are saying they're tired. and they're right. agriculture and food security are a high priority. we've learned a little bit about that in the last few years. well, in more geopolitically turbulent times, many are realizing that eating and drinking is part of our sovereignty. we've seen too much bitterness in the last two years, for example, in the energy that flourishes when we become dependent on others. we need active farmers, especially young farmers, if we are to keep our farms alive. we must make agriculture attractive, create income opportunities. why should farmers earn less than other groups of workers? we must maintain agriculture everywhere, not only in favourable areas, but also in the mountains and in disadvantaged areas. this requires a strong and financially sound common agricultural policy. we must take our farmers seriously again, otherwise we will find less and less food from europe on our tables.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i wanted to stress first of all the important role of farmers and ranchers in ensuring that we all have healthy and quality food. the european agricultural sector is therefore considered undervalued and underprotected despite the cap, which is under constant review, is constantly under question and has an ever-shrinking budget because it does not take inflation into account. so the agricultural sector is considered undervalued and sometimes attacked. the cap therefore does not provide adequate or sufficient protection, even if it is functioning. but it's, i mean, under permanent review. in addition, there are imports from third countries, drought and all these issues... we see how food prices are rising, but they are not affecting the price farmers receive. and we are not explaining our green policies well, we have to make a consensus effort with farmers if we want to implement them. they are essential in the fight against climate change, but not against farmers. and that they don't use them by the right or the greens, who are using them strategically to attack them and use them in the next election.
in the name of the renew faction. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states. did you have breakfast this morning with fresh bread, butter, milk, cheese, sausage or cereal with fruit and juice? all of us farmers are freshly produced every day, of the highest quality and available at all times. yes, in germany we have the biggest protests since 2008. the commission has already decided to extend the scope of the directive to the member states. the problems are deeper and the trail leads from berlin to brussels. bureaucratic demands and administrative madness mean that planning security has become a foreign word for our businesses. investments in the future are hardly possible. we have only the first year of the cap and not even all the parts of the green deal to be implemented in the member states. the farmers in europe will not survive this for long and they will not take it any longer. we must here admit that we have failed in the old agricultural policy and it is time for us to seriously consider a new agricultural policy. germany is still an industrialized nation. the current protests show that farmers, craftsmen, and the middle class are the foundation of society. we must not further destabilize this foundation.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we agree that agriculture is in crisis. but rather than think that this crisis is a temporary one and constantly responding to the consequences of these successive crises, should we not instead identify the causes and share together the view that the problem is structural? to throw this billions of dollars worth of drunken ship out of the water, to keep the farmers' heads in the water, choked by this productivist model, is only a leak forward. agriculture is, of course, the subject of food, but it is also the subject of climate, biodiversity and health. this is therefore an extremely strategic sector and farmers can, if they are accompanied, become guarantors of the common interest. it is therefore urgent to stop opposing ecology and economics and to make an objective observation that what threatens agriculture, food sovereignty, peasant income, generation renewal, but also climate, biodiversity and health, is this productivist model requiring the massive use of pesticides and synthetic fertilizers, not the guidelines referring to agroecology. as we approach the reopening of the discussions on the new cap, we must listen to the social expectations, including the strategic role of agriculture in these issues, for which we have been talking to you with history, but we also have a responsibility to use this major public policy to accompany the change in agricultural practices in order to get farmers and farmers, farmers and agriculture out of the bad trap in which they are trapped. we must not give in to the whim of the liberals and conservatives who want to prolong the precarious agricultural world with poor solutions and seize this opportunity to build the future of agriculture and food sovereignty. it's when you're in red that you always have to be green.
madam president, farmers have been protesting for months to express their anger. i would have had to speak in this chamber on monday before parliament could finally address this issue and take account of this intolerable situation. what hypocrisy, however, is the title of this debate. you say you want to improve the socioeconomic situation of farmers and rural areas and guarantee them fair incomes, but it is here that policies that endanger european farms and livestock are decided. it is this same european commission that is signing free trade agreements with the world, which wants ukraine to join the european union, which would mean the death of our agriculture in france. the same is true of the green deal and these standards that will strangle our farmers. these farmers have our food sovereignty in their hands, let them breathe, work, produce. france is the grain cellar of europe. it is unacceptable to go elsewhere and get what we already have in our home. we really need to declare a state of emergency on agriculture.
member of the commission. madam president. ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the exchange we have just had. it recalls that our work on fundamental rights in the european union is based on the rights and principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the union. today's debate highlights once again the need to ensure that these fundamental rights are taken into account in all union action. the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights are among the founding values of our union. these are the basic principles of any democratic system which must be preserved, promoted and duly applied. the commission's annual report on the rule of law and the annual report on the charter contribute to keeping the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights at the centre of public debate. one of the central principles of union policy on fundamental rights is the key role of member states in respecting these rights whenever they implement the principles and rules developed at european union level. we are continuing the dialogue with the member states in this area, including in the context of article 7 procedures, and i welcome the support and commitment of the european parliament in this work.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the rule of law and media freedom in greece (2024/2502(rsp)).
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the commission closely follows developments in the field of the rule of law, pluralism and freedom of the media in its annual report on the rule of law. its fourth edition was adopted in july last year. i would therefore like to give you the main conclusions and recommendations on greece. as regards the judiciary, greece has adopted a number of measures to improve its efficiency and quality, but several challenges remain. we note a number of recent legislative initiatives aimed at shortening the duration of proceedings. to date, no measures have been taken with regard to the participation of the judiciary in the procedure for the appointment of the highest judicial offices, namely judges serving as president and vice-president of the council of state, the supreme court and the court of auditors. in the fight against corruption, the entry into force of legislation on declarations of property is a major step forward. however, progress in prosecuting and judging corruption cases has been limited. as regards the legislative process, the report refers to the efforts made to improve its quality. in practice, however, challenges remain in this area as well, particularly with regard to stakeholder consultation. and the issue of surveillance by telephone wiretapping and spyware has been investigated by judicial and independent authorities. there are still concerns about the regulatory framework for the registration of civil society organisations, in particular organisations active in the fields of migration and social inclusion. the commission considers that concrete measures are needed to assess the current system and determine whether it needs to be changed, including through a structured dialogue with civil society. let me now focus on media freedom. greece adopted legislation aimed at enhancing transparency of media ownership. the law set up a registry for print media, as well as a registry for electronic press, and reserves eligibility for state advertising to registered companies. safeguards are in place to ensure the independence of public service media, but the fact that board members of the radio and television corporation are appointed by the minister responsible for media continues to raise concerns about their effective independence and potential political influence. the report also referred to the new procedure to hire staff members of the national council for radio and television, the independent audiovisual media regulator, and persistent challenges regarding its understaffing. the report also describes the situation of threats and attacks against journalists as incidents, including the use of spyware against journalists and abusive lawsuits. the creation in 2022 of a task force for the protection and empowerment of journalists is an important step. nevertheless, more concrete steps are needed to improve the working environment of journalists, including in relation to abusive lawsuits against journalists and their safety. the commission addressed a recommendation to greece in this regard. in this respect, the commission also notes that the council of europe's safety of journalists platform identified at the end of 2023 two cases of impunity for murder, nine active alerts and two others without reply in greece. the commission closely follows developments in the rule of law in greece and will take them into due account for the 2024 edition of its rule of law report. at the same time, the commission proposed a series of initiatives to strengthen the protection of journalists and the media in the european union. these initiatives will help improve the situation in greece and in the whole european union. they include a recommendation on the safety of journalists, a package of a directive and a recommendation dealing with abusive litigation against journalists and rights defenders, as well as a regulation on the media freedom act. the commission welcomes the recent political agreements on the two laws and thanks the european parliament for its strong support. the commission has always condemned any attempt to illegally access the data of citizens, including, of course, journalists. we addressed this issue in depth during the december plenary session, following the recommendations of the pega committee. as i underlined at the time, the commission is preparing a non-legislative initiative clarifying the boundaries between national security and eu law, in particular the data protection and privacy acquis. in addition, as part of the recent defence of democracy package, the commission adopted a recommendation on inclusive and resilient electoral processes, addressing also the targeting of political actors and journalists by surveillance and spyware tools. the recommendation also recalls that national security should be interpreted in accordance with the case law of the court of justice of the european union, in order to preserve the effective application of union law. i thank you for your attention, and of course, i am now looking forward to listening to your intervention, remarks and proposals.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, true democracy cannot exist without strong, diverse and, above all, free media. it requires scrutiny, and media play a key role in those checks and balances. we must always stand side by side with those performing that essential function. and we must do this in a fact-based way. it’s far too important to be politicised. also, in this house, we must have the courage to be critical towards our friends, but also treat our political opponents in a fair way. and i hope we can do this in this debate today as well. not everything can always be portrayed as either black or white. i speak here on behalf of the epp group, and it’s no secret that the government of greece belongs to my political family. yet you won’t hear me say today that everything in greece is perfect. like in many member states, there is always room for improvement. like everyone here and in greece, i was shocked about the 2021 murder of journalist giorgos karaivaz. we welcome the two arrests in april last year, and i hope that we can soon see justice truly and fully done. more is also needed to guarantee the working conditions and physical safety of journalists. the commission recognises the progress made and the taskforce is welcomed as an essential step by all stakeholders. so now is also the time to further build on these initiatives and equip this taskforce with the necessary means and make sure it works, as the commissioner said, with concrete and targeted plans, in particular with regards to slapps and the safety of journalists. on spyware, tomorrow we will vote on the fundamental rights report, where we call again on greece, spain, poland, hungary and cyprus to follow up on the recommendations of the pega committee. and i think it’s important to also reiterate that call here today. concluding, we see work ahead, but we also recognise the steps taken by the greek government. the rule of law report highlights a number of key positive points, such as the new law on transparency of media ownership, the new ethics committee and the fact that a controversial provision of the criminal code was amended. progress is being made and we are confident that greece will continue its work to further improve upon the implementation of these important recommendations.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, wow! i just heard the epp in a very different tone when it comes to the rule of law, simply because there is a government in greece that is led by an epp government. meanwhile, did the new presidency lose itself in the corridors for the third debate in a row? it is not even here to discuss a very important topic for us here in parliament. but finally, we are discussing the situation of the rule of law in greece after being blocked by the epp so many times in this very chamber. but let me be blunt: why is the epp so eager to defend the rule of law only where the epp is not in power? and yes, i specifically speak of the epp family here, as i am the first one to recognise that rule of law issues in countries where there is also a socialists and democrats majority, like in my country. in my own country we had never a problem to discuss this, but maltese authorities always had an open dialogue with this chamber and took on board many recommendations to implement as many european standards as possible. but what is the history with greece? so firstly, we have a systematic breach of the rule of law. we have spying by government institutions on activists, politicians and journalists, tapping their mobile phones. we have had the murder of a journalist, giorgos karaivaz, and we have an attack on the fundamental rights of asylum seekers, and yet this is the first time that we are discussing the rule of law in greece. we saw that even this chamber tried to stop last march a mission regarding the rule of law in greece by the by the libe committee, where president metsola and the epp even tried to annul it. then the next day, the epp greek government receives an epp delegation from this parliament: different hypocritical ways of acting when it comes to these topics. this is an important topic, we need to discuss it wherever it happens, whether it is in greece, malta or whatever other country.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, colleagues, commissioner, this debate is long overdue, as the rule of law in greece is in steep decline and press freedom is in dire straits. rule of law corrosion and political capture pervade all government sectors. independent oversight bodies are being neutered. eu funding is conditional on serious efforts to prevent and detect corruption, which is evidently not the case in greece. the charter of fundamental rights is trampled upon systematically. yes – another breach of the funding criteria. the statement of the commissioner here leaves no room for doubt: greece does not meet the conditions for eu funding. an unbiased reassessment is essential. and finally, i would like to say to the widow of giorgos karaivaz, to the parents of the victims of the tempi train crash, to the loved ones of the victims of the pylos shipwreck, to the journalists facing slapps in court next week, and to many others who are targets of harassment or spyware merely for scrutinising the government, to them i would like to say: – δεν είστε μόνοι σας, δεν σας αφήνουμε μέχρι να έχετε δικαιοσύνη.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, our democracy seems really fragile in europe these days. while eu institutions look elsewhere, the situation in greece is quickly deteriorating. we talk a lot about hungary because things have gone so far there that it’s now a quasi-autocracy. have we learned nothing? the greek government is fostering an increasingly restrictive legislative environment, which surveils and criminalises civil society, refugees and journalists. the same recipe used in hungary and other member state governments with autocratic tendencies. for the second year in a row, greece came last among eu countries in the reporters without borders 2023 index. there has been no justice for the murder of greek reporter giorgos karaivaz, cases of harassment and intimidation against journalists in greece are well documented, and there is a climate of fear in which journalists, independent bodies and civil society operate. the wiretapping of journalists, the attempted hacking of opposition politicians and the export of spyware remain unsolved. refugees are tracked and monitored through the use of behavioural analysis algorithms and biometric surveillance. individual human rights defenders are vilified in the media, subjected to smear campaigns and death threats. those investigating corruption, be they journalists or prosecutors, are the victims of abusive trials and constantly risk charges being brought against them. are we going to let the authorities in greece continue to crackdown on fundamental rights?
madam president, i have been a french member of the osce observation missions for 15 years. and one thing i've learned is that you can know the balance sheet when the report is delivered. now, today, you're all talking about an election where there's no biddh report. that report will be in a month, maybe a month and a half. you're talking about witnesses. i do not question them, but there were 5,000 observers and i think the least of all precautions, commissioner, would be to not have first discussed this matter before we heard the report of the iachr. you're talking about the rule of law, but there are institutions on election observation. i would remind you that these institutions normally have to report. but we see that this debate is being used by a part of the opposition which is questioning the outcome of the elections. i'm worried because this area needs a calm. we know very well that this debate will serve a part of the opposition to continue to probably create unrest. the question i ask myself is: what are you looking for in organising such a debate? don't you want to do another kind of second maidan?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in many of the overseas territories we have volcanoes and we have a recognised geothermal potential. yet we continue to produce the majority of our electricity by burning fossil fuels. it's just weird. the development of surface geothermal energy would be very simple in our territories. deep geothermal would also be a possibility. but more than a promise, an abundant geothermal must soon become a reality. it has the great advantage of being a national energy source without the need to import technology from asia. it also ensures a stable, safe, continuous, clean and inexhaustible local energy supply. it's gold under our feet. the european union must become more involved in this issue in our overseas territories. we expect the commission to present an ambitious development plan as soon as possible. there's an emergency. my compatriots in the french overseas departments expect a lot from europe on this issue. i'm counting on you.
madam president, europeans are suffering the consequences of the european union's poor response to the various crises we are going through, particularly the women who are most affected. crises that could have been an opportunity to learn from past mistakes to restore the sovereignty of the member states, strengthen their cooperation and improve the well-being of their citizens who wish for these structural changes. the members of the national assembly are constantly warning of the need to lift sanctions on gas and oil imports, which have a dramatic impact on europeans' purchasing power, and of the urgency to free ourselves from the absurd rules of the european energy market which affect the french electricity and gas bills. in this context, the central bank has found nothing better to do than to significantly increase its interest rates in 2022, which has complicated access to housing and property for low-income households. although the laudable aim of this text is to reduce the consequences of the cost of living and the energy crisis for women, i regret that the proposed solutions do not address the profound consequences of these crises, that they are mirrored in a woke ideology and that they interfere with the policies of the member states.
mr president, mr commissioner, colleagues, a large part of the population in the european union is living on the poverty line, especially because of the inflation rate in recent years and the sharp rise in energy and minimum consumer prices. families, children, single people, mostly women, and our pensioners often cannot meet even the most basic needs and face severe energy shortages. it is therefore necessary to ensure affordable utilities, affordable food for low-income people and to prohibit the disconnection of utilities to them. each member state must develop and have measures to address energy poverty, in particular in assessing the poverty of women and children, and a directive on the implementation of minimum income and the real child guarantee is necessary at european union level, with a separate budget and the necessary funding.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the gender aspects of the rising cost of living and the energy crisis. so you divided the society into groups of men and women. so what's next? are you going to put one price on electricity for men, another for women, or since you're saying there are more sexes, maybe a third for bisexuals and a fourth for transsexuals? will you introduce special incentives only for women who decide to invest in solar panels together? in short, your divisions are pointless. you divide society into generations, and society has only been divided in real life into groups called families. yes, most europeans live in families and share the cost of living there, and it's not easy for them, and we, instead of adapting our policies to those real groups that exist, so families, we, actually you, are on the agenda forcing a wake culture that is based on forcing stories about endangered groups, whether they're women, sexual minorities or migrants.
i need to say that you probably wanted to use provocative political language, but maybe it was a little bit below what we call good behaviour in this house.
member of the commission. madam president, i ask myself: who is afraid of women? the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the implementation of the budget. it's not ideology, it's a sad reality. unfortunately, it is the majority of women who suffer. i would like to say that the commission has not been able to find a solution to this problem. no, europe did not cause the energy crisis, there are others who caused it. nor is europe the cause of the price explosion, but europe has tried to find solutions. i remember very well that one of our first reactions was to recommend that member states support families, support the most vulnerable and vulnerable by means of aid, in particular to avoid, or at least to avoid, this energy problem wherever possible. we have launched a major project on ipa which is specifically aimed at diversifying and, above all, accelerating investment in renewable energy, which should help to reduce energy prices and, above all, make europe less dependent. i know people who challenge this plan to change every time they take it. so for me, talking about poverty, of course, includes women, it includes other categories, including other communities. and that is why i am convinced that poverty is the first thing to be fought. this should be a major priority for both europe and the member states.
the discussion is over. the vote will be delivered tomorrow thursday 18 january 2024. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
it's written. of all the people in the world living in poverty, as many as 70 percent are women. women are often given insecure employment contracts, work part-time, and receive a minimum wage more often than men. this injustice is also evident during the energy crisis caused by russian aggression in ukraine. energy poverty is significantly more common in single-parent families, with 80 percent of them women. unfortunately, there's not enough talk about this and most people aren't even aware of this problem. so we, the meps, are officially asking the european commission this week to pass a €100 billion package to help single parents pay bills and take additional measures to protect the elderly, our retirees, from energy poverty.
the following statement by the commission on the resolution of the urgent skills gap and the finding of the right experts to accelerate job creation (european year of skills) (2024/2503(rsp) is on the agenda:
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for putting this important topic on our agenda. we have already debated this issue of quality of jobs and especially also the skills shortages in a competitive social market economy this morning. it’s true that skills shortages are not only undermining europe’s competitiveness and resilience, they are also a risk for social cohesion. in a recent eurobarometer survey, two out of three small and medium-sized companies said that labour shortages are holding back their business, preventing them from investing and creating more jobs. the economic cost is huge. it is estimated that about 2% of gdp is lost due to skills shortages. when i say job creation, i mean creation of good jobs. having the skills needed on the labour market will precisely allow for access to better jobs. the main answer is to train people and train them now. we need it for the digital and the green transition. we have even dedicated one eu headline target on skills, namely that 60% of adults train at least once every year. this is not new. lifelong learning goes back to jacques delors, who already emphasised this need even before becoming commission president, and in his famous stockholm speech at the etuc conference, he announced the right for permanent training that has materialised in principle number one of the european pillar of social rights. to mobilise and encourage actions at all levels, especially in member states and at local level, the parliament and the council established the european year of skills. the 2 000 events organised across europe so far show that there is a strong awareness of how important lifelong learning is. of course, we do not start from scratch. the 2020 european skills agenda has laid out a roadmap on how to boost skills policies and has led to several very concrete actions. we have the tools and funding available, with eur 65 billion supporting training through the european social fund plus and the recovery and resilience facility. the 2022 council recommendations on individual learning accounts and micro-credentials promote more adult skills development, which should be supported by good guidance to both workers and companies, especially small enterprises. the 2023 council recommendation on digital skills underlines the need for better strategies to support the development of digital skills at all levels and for all groups. also, skills partnerships are an effective approach. those established under the pact for skills have already upskilled 2 million workers. they are bringing together all relevant stakeholders in each industrial ecosystem. we should also recognise that sometimes, skills are available, but they are not just visible. people develop useful skills at the workplace through volunteering, live experience, sport, leisure. validating these skills will help people to find jobs and companies to create and fill jobs. recognising skills and giving them value is as important as developing skills. companies that need skills should better identify the skill they need. those skills may very well be already available among their staff. also, when recruiting new staff, it is important to identify what applicants can do – not only look at their degrees or certificates or the job title of any previous experience. recruitment should also be based on skills first. this helps companies find people with the skills they need, also among groups who are less represented on the labour market, such as women, the low qualified inactive monetary groups, older workers, people with disability. skilled migrants can contribute to address labour shortages, such as through the skills and talent mobility package, but this must be part of a holistic approach. the message of the european year of skills is clear: skills shortages can be addressed if we recognise that skills matter and we need to develop them throughout our lives. skills indeed matter. they are an investment, not a cost. this is the basic message of the year, and i’m grateful for the continued support by your parliament in the common endeavour.
for the epp group. mr president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity to discuss this very important subject. the lack of skilled labour is a phenomenon affecting all member states. the worst affected are specific sectors such as healthcare, nursing, but also construction and information. i myself have been working with representatives of the caring sector in slovakia for a long time and the situation is really alarming. population ageing and the flight of workers to western countries offering them higher financial ratings are making the situation worse. carers, whether formal or informal, are the basis for decent care for the elderly and persons with disabilities. but they are desperately few, and those we have are underappreciated and tired. often they are even in worse health than the people they care for. we have a care strategy, we have commitments to ensure worker retraining or a lifelong learning strategy. but none of this attracts new workers unless the conditions of their profession, including financial evaluation, are decent. i therefore want to ask whether the european commission is planning specific initiatives to attract workers to the nursing sector, where the situation is truly alarming. because we're all going to need care someday.
on behalf of the s&d group madam president, dear commissioner, it is always inspiring to hear a progressive leadership of the commission in this half-cycle. investing in skills is a powerful weapon to tackle the digital and energy transition, and so there are three points that are essential. first, investment in lifelong learning in our workers is essential to ensure social justice and improved employment opportunities at a time of ecological and digital transition. the european and national investment must also be combined with the strong investment of our companies. secondly, we must make a strong commitment to improving working conditions and the condition of decent wages as the main way of keeping our workers in the labour market. this was the portuguese government's effort and commitment, with the sustained and progressive increase in the wages of portuguese over the past eight years, reducing emigration compared to 2015, and encouraging young portuguese to stay in their country. finally, one point that i am very fond of: it is more than proven that immigrants coming to europe contribute positively to our social security systems. instead of being overcome by fear that others want to impose, count on our full commitment to creating safe, regular and dignified conditions for all those who seek europe for work and a better life.
on behalf of the renew group. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any further action. but none of this will happen without europeans, women, men, their talents. this will not happen without the certainty that europeans have sufficient skills to respond to the changes and challenges of our time. we're at a critical juncture. environmental challenges and ensuring our independence are issues we must face. to answer this, there is only one solution: invest in skills, invest in youth, support our workers in the new labour market, create european training in key sectors. this is particularly what we have achieved in the net zero industries act, which we all voted for here in november last year. all or almost: some members of parliament voted against, including french meps from my country, on the far-left benches. they are full of illusions, because one thing is certain: without it, there will be no european competitiveness. without it, there will be no european sovereignty. without this, there will be no answers for quality jobs for all europeans.
firstly, honourable commissioner, colleagues, the year of skills is dedicated to bringing attention to the labour and demand disparities in the european union and to finding solutions. the problem of the quality of goods remains very relevant and must be addressed, as it is the competitive nature of the european union as a whole and the social well-being of our people. it is clear that there is a shortage of qualified workers and that they are particularly scarce in the regions. at the same time, we have a high level of youth unemployment in the whole of the european union. we do not exploit the opportunities for women and people with disabilities to participate in the labour market, so we must ensure that our people can acquire skills that meet the needs of the market. but the wages for work must be attractive and decent, and the working conditions must be decent so that each person can feel comfortable and live and support his family.
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to a fair trial. there are several factors involved: poorly-suited education, low labour force, unattractive training, poor orientation among young people. in france, one in two young people change careers after graduating, particularly in the industrial sector. this is a clear indication that there is a lack of adequacy between the curriculum, the aspirations of young people and the reality of the world of work. i believe that erasmus+ has a key role to play through european university alliances, long-term mobility of apprentices, but also centres of excellence for learning. in the erasmus+ implementation report we adopted yesterday, we ask the commission to present a clear vision of the future of centres of excellence for learning and of european university alliances. they should, in my view, become the catalysts of tomorrow's talent and a real tool for long-term skills management.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, since independence, tajikistan has made immense efforts to ensure the economic progress essential for its people. after suffering the tragedies of a civil war, dushanbe established itself as a vital player for the whole of central asia. a player who has also succeeded in advancing dialogue on the border tensions between kyrgyzstan and the uighur islamists in the east, the taliban in the south, and the continued presence of the islamic state in the region. tajikistan must fight jihadism mercilessly. the mountains of badakhshan are still shaken by jihadist activities that the tajik state is fighting bravely. many terrorist acts are taking place in the country, which needs the support of the central government to protect itself from barbaric attacks and the influence of criminal organizations. so instead of supporting tajikistan, this resolution uses a few misinformation cases based solely on a report from a government-hostile ngo to attack a key ally of european nations in the area. in the face of jihadism, our solidarity with dushanbe must be total and we must support its action. it's the only way in the long run that there's a little more democracy in this country.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this house all the plastic objects you have around you have passed through the granular stage because they are the raw material of plastic. for years, our coasts were marked by black tides, and today they are marked by white tides, which are just as harmful because these granules are processed oil and mix with grains of sand. the disaster in galicia and all my thoughts to my spanish colleagues, as in the previous ones, again warn us of the need to implement effective prevention measures. i feel a little like putting my hand on the table because solutions have been around for a long time and they're not being applied, and they're not that hard to implement. there are leaks, as we said, at every stage of handling these pellets, but how can we still accept containers falling into the sea today? at a minimum, they must be stored inside the holds. we must continue to push the international maritime organization to move forward on container traceability, and in the text on pellets we are working on today, i will also push for the traceability of the pellets themselves to identify responsibilities.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, mr commissioner, last month europe witnessed another maritime disaster. thousands of plastic pellets were found scattered in the atlantic ocean off the coast of spain. this is not a new phenomenon, as 230 000 tonnes of microbes end up in the environment each year, and europe alone accounts for two thirds of this pollution. so yes, the european union bears a huge responsibility to ignore the disasters of its totally unbridled free trade policy. and let us not rely on the left-wing groups that use these issues solely for electoral purposes. in the face of trade clashes between china and the united states, tensions in the middle east and the red sea, we are once again paying a heavy price for our dependence on the rest of the world. to act for reindustrialisation means to act not only for european citizens and their purchasing power, but also for the environment and sovereignty. the same mistakes lead to the same consequences. so it's time to change the paradigm.
yes, one point of order: the translation was not available in french during the whole intervention of our colleague gabriel mato, so we could not benefit from mr mato's intervention. i'm sorry about that.
on behalf of the renew group. the commissioner, mr president, has just said that the common fisheries policy, as adopted a decade ago, works in an ideal world where the ocean is made up of a fish species with a large vessel fishing for it, and it works. except the world isn't ideal. the world is living in reality. the fisheries, the realities, have been taken into account in recent years. we have spoken so far about the crises that have been experienced. i think of brexit, then covid, then ukraine. the fisheries sector was deeply shaken, and while the policy called for the adjustment of this sector, it had to cope with the needs of resilience and decarbonisation. this morning, the french press reported that the basque fishing industry is ready to shake. the reality is that the whole sector is ready to shake. so if we cannot put concrete, stumbling blocks on the table in the years ahead and finally renew an ageing and almost bankrupt fishing fleet, we will not succeed. in any case, one thing is certain: fishing will not endure another crisis, its foundations will be too shaky.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to put this debate in the broader context of integrated maritime policy, and to stop dealing with maritime issues in silos is one of the main objectives of my mandate as a member of the european parliament. i am not questioning the common fisheries policy the legislative framework essential for our european fishermen but fishermen have seen the sea and the maritime world evolve: climate change, pollution, invasive species, the emergence of activities such as marine energy, increased foreign competition, etc. so the fisherman seaman finds himself at the crossroads of all these great maritime issues. to ensure its future, it is essential to preserve the ecosystems on which it depends, but also to accompany it in the transition of its profession. i believe that the future european commissioner's portfolio, and the commission as a whole, must reflect these maritime issues and this integrated vision, and i propose a future committee in the european parliament, a committee on maritime issues. i am convinced that the future of europe will be built with the ocean and that we must take a much more strategic view of the issues at stake. a blue pact must be implemented.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say once again that fisheries and aquaculture activities must be environmentally sustainable in the long term, but must also be managed in a way that is consistent with the objectives of economic and social benefits, and it is clear that this tripartite sustainability must always be based on the best available scientific knowledge and on assessments of the impact of decisions taken. the common fisheries policy must be a balanced policy capable of monitoring the long-term management of fisheries and aquaculture activities in an effective, transparent and fair manner, helping them to position themselves in an economy which is increasingly driven by circularity, digitalisation and the energy transition, but which is also increasingly competitive at world level.
mr president, the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy has reduced overfishing, which greatly benefits fishermen. but too often, it is not fully applied. the landing obligation was greatly weakened by exemptions. fisheries ecosystem management is still in its infancy. article 17 of the cfp, which requires the member states to allocate fishing quotas using social and environmental criteria and which is to protect artisanal fishermen, is not applied by the member states. last week i met some young weavers in brittany. they decided to adopt environmentally friendly practices, but due to the lack of ecosystemic management of fisheries, the population of the yellow spot, which accounted for 70% of their catches, has completely collapsed. if article 17 of the cfp is not applied, they will be without a quota for 2024, while trucks will have one. we're getting our heads kicked. so before we embark on any risky reform, as this report suggests, let us fully apply the current law. finally, the report calls for animal welfare to be taken into account in aquaculture, but not in fisheries. i would ask you to vote on our amendment to correct this.
the reporting period shall be extended to the following: the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any further action. the urgent need to restore marine ecosystems which are constantly deteriorating from pollution, climate change and human activities at sea, particularly fishing. to preserve resilient fisheries and aquaculture, scientists are unanimous in the need to regenerate ecosystems and not just manage stocks. they warn against fishing gear which are not selective enough, in particular boat and fishing gear which are dragged in contact with the ground. we should, together with fishermen, of course, engage fisheries in a real change: an ecological fishery like an agroecology. the commission's action plan may be imperfect, but it is necessary to protect the common good of mankind, the ocean. the report put to the vote today is a very heavy one and i must admit that i would find it difficult to support it. let us not lose political courage, let us set an ambitious target, let us make the european union the leader of this transition, and this action plan is an opportunity.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. mr president, commissioner, are we going to put an end to any objective of ocean protection or are we going to start the transition towards a more respectful fisheries for marine ecosystems? that is the meaning of today's vote. the right and its allies, the diggers of the oceans, are now proposing a dangerous demagogic report that ignores the warnings of scientists, minimizes the impact of bottom fishing, refuses to recognize the benefits of protected marine areas and leads european fishing to a dead end. in the face of biodiversity decline and climate change, ostriches should not be bred. with its action plan, the european commission has had the honour of proposing a number of important measures and of recognising the impact of bottom trawling on the seabed. the transition to low-impact fishing must begin now, a transition that is just in the medium and long term, where visibility is given to fishermen, where crises are anticipated. an incentive distribution of fishing quotas, the gradual end of bottom trawling in marine protected areas, the reduction of accidental catches are all necessary measures that can be tools for this transition. it takes courage, and that's telling the truth.
mr president, commissioner, all over the french coast for the last few months or even years people have been coming together to look at how to reduce the impact of fishing on marine ecosystems, from marine areas to marine protected areas, from natura 2000 to natura 2000. this is called fisheries risk analysis. specifically, how does it show up? in fact, it is fishermen who know what is happening in these areas, who know what is happening, who are discussing with scientists and also with agencies of the french office for biodiversity, whom i would like to pay tribute to, and particularly the work of which i would like to pay tribute, who have a precise knowledge of these areas, because they have been made marine protected areas, the nature of the fisheries, and who are working together to ensure that certain fishing activities are limited, suppressed, reduced, possibly banned. that's how we do it to protect our ecosystems. what i mean is simply that we must not make announcements from brussels. we must not co-administer fisheries. it is from the field that we must work with the fishermen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's action plan is not without its weaknesses, but it is when a problem is tackled from a single angle. the oceans must be protected and exploited with reason. these two objectives can be achieved together. to do this, let us rely on fishermen, formidable, responsible people who passionately do the most dangerous trade in the world. we should not consider them as a problem, but rather associate them with all decisions and value their good practices to lead them to more and more reasonable behaviours. the rapporteur is malicious in pointing out that the objective of the action plans must not be to replace european fisheries with imports. that's a pretty word. this would be like replacing the best practices with the best practices. sometimes the best is the enemy of the good. in the interest of our fisheries in europe and overseas, the commission must now return to a new action plan, more reasonable, less dogmatic, more compatible with the requirements of food security and respect for european and overseas fishermen.
mr president, commissioner, this may be one of the last debates we will have on fisheries during this term. it's a sad moment. throughout europe, fishermen, as farmers elsewhere, say they can no longer work because of the constraints they face today, the avalanche of complexity that has been imposed on them. but the commission, which refuses to listen, is still going in the same direction, while in three days the gulf of gascony will be completely closed to fishing. you are presenting an action plan which would prohibit fishing techniques which are common and necessary in a very large number of marine areas. in france, for example, one third of the maritime area would be affected. all this is in addition to the common fisheries policy. all this is in addition to the fisheries control regulations we will have worked on during this term. where is the regulatory consistency? where's the scientific basis? where is the impact study? the truth, commissioner, is that we already import three quarters of the seafood we consume. we are not going to be able to do anything about the environment and the protection of the oceans. and we say in this report, thanks to our colleague niclas herbst, that it is absolutely essential that the coming mandate radically change direction. we will save the oceans only with european fishermen and never against them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the oceans are in a much worse condition than our territories. the oceans, this precious commons for mankind, cannot be the place of all plunder and plunder. i have been too close to the tamil fishermen, the vézos, the bugis and bajau, the breton and mediterranean fishermen, to know that we cannot save the oceans without the interest of the local people, without their mobilisation and association. that is why we must be ambitious in ending industrial fishing models that empty the oceans of their fish and reduce local fishermen to despair. the question of dolphin catches off the french coast is mainly because dolphins can no longer feed in the open sea and are forced to come to the coast to get their food. we must therefore think about the revision of the law of the sea. we must think about diversifying the income of fishermen, especially by cultivating algae. we must also think about ending the appropriation and privatization of life which large industrial companies are engaged in today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 18 january 2024.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion on the report by izaskun bilbao barandica on behalf of the fisheries committee on the implementation of the regulation on the common organisation of the market (cmo) in fisheries and aquaculture regulation (eu) no 1379/2013 (2023/2049(ini)) (a9-0406/2023). since we're relatively late and we've had three almost identical debates, even with the spontaneous voicemail, with almost identical speakers, i would abstain from the spontaneous voicemail. so you don't have to report yourself.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, first of all, i would like to thank all the groups for their cooperation in finalising this work and to say that the common organization of the markets in fishery products and aquaculture is a basic tool to contribute to the objectives of the common fisheries policy: it ensures a varied supply of seafood under competitive and stable market conditions, promotes transparency and guarantees to consumers and is also a basic tool in the fight against illegal, undeclared and unregulated fishing. the last revision of this regulation, adopted with the reform of the cfp, ended unsustainable market intervention measures such as the withdrawal or destruction of products for human consumption. it also reinforced the role of producer organisations, which it designated as the sole instance for setting exceptions to competition rules and access to european funds financing market management actions. a first contribution to our proposal is to stake on better funding for these organisations. another advocates that fishermen's associations or fisheries associations be included in this review as producer organisations. the cmos facilitate market management and should regulate the functions of these entities, but also recognise the diversity that characterises them, especially when they operate. the data collected since 2013 also allows us to propose further improvements. first, the uniform and harmonised application of these rules in all member states must be ensured, taking into account the conditions of the outermost regions. the differences undermine consumer confidence and undermine free competition in the single market. we must also take advantage of the digitisation process that the newly adopted fisheries control regulation encourages. a modernisation that will improve, diversify and enrich available data on catches, traceability and consumer guarantees without adding administrative burdens. this data should improve labelling standards and prevent the entry of processed vegetables or other products into the seafood market. fish is not grown on land. the fisheries sector demands that the offerings, masked by misleading presentations, attempt to attribute to themselves dietary, organoleptic and sustainability qualities which they lack, conditions which only seafood provides to the diet. the new european union food strategy, which i insist must more clearly incorporate seafood in its title and content, must take advantage of these improvements so as not to add new sustainability requirements to the high standards set by all community legislation. finally, i highlight the improvements in the european fisheries and aquaculture market observatory, which is managed by the commission to analyse market dynamics and support both sectoral decisions and policies. deepening and enriching the daily collection of data on volumes, values and prices of fisheries and aquaculture products, from the first sale to the retail phase, propels structural market control, but, in addition, should allow for rapid reaction when drastic changes produced by unpredictable factors, such as those that generated the covid-19 crisis, force to activate stabilization tools. i would like to thank my team and all those who have intervened in the negotiations on this initiative for their positive and constructive attitude and hope that this report will be widely supported.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me start by thanking ms bilbao, the shadow rapporteurs and the entire pech committee for the work done on this own initiative report, which the commission welcomes. i’m happy to see that most of your findings concur with the commission’s own report that we adopted in february 2023. in particular, we both conclude that the common market organisation regulation generally remains fit for purpose. allow me to share the commission’s views. i also agree that the producer organisations play a key role, and that more efforts are necessary to support the implementation and financing of their production and marketing plans, and these remain, of course, a responsibility of the member states. nevertheless, the commission works closely with concerned parties to facilitate the implementation of the plans and provide guidance. i know how important the recognition of producer organisations such as cofradías and prud’homies is for you. cofradías and prud’homies are welcome to adapt their structures in line with the rules. and in all my meetings with fishing communities where this issue was raised, i have always reiterated the commission readiness to assess in that process. regarding the difficulties for small-scale producers to set up producer organisations. i can reassure you that the national programmes under the emfaf address these challenges, and the commission continues to provide guidance here. on your call to improve marketing standards and consumer information, i fully agree that proper labelling is essential for the trust of consumers. a better consumer information relies on three elements. first of all, full traceability. here, the timely implementation of the new fisheries control regulation is crucial. secondly, compliance by member states with the regulation on the common market organisation. and this is an area which we will prioritise in 2024. and third, consumer rights to an informed choice. here we will work in 2024 towards a methodology to score some sustainability aspects for fisheries and aquaculture products. the report also mentions the need to include marketing standards in measures adopted in regional fisheries management organisations. unfortunately, marketing standards are not covered by these organisations, but conservation and other control measures are in place to ensure sustainable fisheries. the report highlights the need to increase the use of quality schemes and to have a greater variety of quality schemes. the commission, however, thinks that there is no need for more quality schemes, as the existing types seem to be wide enough to promote the specificities of european fishery and aquaculture products, and the best example is in the context of the quality scheme of the geographical indications, which increased by 240% over the last decade in the eu. however, i can agree with you that the producer to obtain a quality scheme needs to be improved. so therefore, the commission adopted a proposal in march 2022 to revise the geographical indications regulations. the report also includes a call to forbid the use of the word fish, or the name of fish species for plant-based products. the current eu rules already provide a solid framework to ensure that consumers are not misled. regarding the mechanism to trigger financial aid under the regulation on the common market organisation in the event of a crisis, let me recall that crisis support already exists under the emfaf. the commission closely monitors market development and the continuing conditions to trigger it. so thank you for your attention and thank you for this excellent report.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i would like to thank mr izaskun barandica for all the work and cooperation in this report, and for the effective proposals for improving the common fisheries policy. this regulation represents an excellent opportunity for europe, but in particular for portugal, to strengthen the fisheries sector, while also promoting aquaculture in both ways: sustainability, justice and efficiency, by strengthening the necessary support and respecting the specificities of the outermost regions. portugal is one of the largest fish consumers in europe and also has one of the largest exclusive economic zones. we therefore have a duty to create the necessary conditions for our fishermen and the entire industry involved in the value chain to work with quality and rigor, serving the end consumers and also improving consumer information. i therefore stress one of the most important changes in this regulation: the reinforcement of the role of fisheries and aquaculture producer organisations. these organisations play a significant role in market management, including the implementation of production and marketing plans. however, despite progress, there are still significant challenges. the inconsistent application of the rules in the member states is a cause for concern. it is therefore imperative to ensure more effective harmonisation of practices in order to increase consumer confidence and ensure fair conditions for all those involved in the sector. we must continue to improve traceability and transparency throughout the value chain, which is crucial to protecting our seas and giving more confidence to our consumers. as co-legislators, i conclude, we have a responsibility to continue to work to improve this regulation, adopting and ensuring a more sustainable future for fisheries and aquaculture, and protecting our marine resources by supporting and counting on our communities.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, this regulation establishing the common organisation of the market in fishery and aquaculture products introduced some fundamental changes in 2013, which were very important. i would like to congratulate mrs bilbao on the work we have been able to do with all the groups and on the result achieved. what is the purpose of this report? this report aims to improve the implementation of some aspects of the 2013 regulation, in particular, for example, by making greater efforts to ensure information for consumers. you have said that, commissioner, we must improve this information, and we must also improve traceability, which i hope will help a lot with the new fisheries control regulation, more transparency in the market and promote promotional campaigns. i would like to conclude by referring to the crisis reserve which the proposal contains. you have said that we are already watching the crisis and i want you to watch it and have the instruments. the cap includes the crisis reserve. study it for the future of this reform.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. mr president, i should like to say a few words, mr herbst: i was in the chamber and i did not leave the debate before. as for mrs bilbao's report, it makes interesting proposals which are important for improving consumer information on seafood. it is important that consumers have access to detailed information on the origin, species, date and place of capture and the fishing technique used, whether fresh, canned, frozen or processed. however, we believe that this report is wrong when it talks about plant alternatives to seafood. the european union imports 70% of the seafood it consumes. and if we want to fight overfishing in the world, we need to reduce our fish consumption. plant alternatives to seafood are an important way to reduce this consumption, while ensuring adequate protein intake. by trying to prohibit the use of any term relating to the sea, you are going wrong. the consumer must be clearly informed, yes, but to oppose plant alternatives as some have opposed the vegetarian burger is to be completely out of step with what citizens want and what is necessary for the planet.
madam president, mrs von der leyen is in davos right now to restore confidence. but what a confession! yes, let's talk about deception, because nobody talks about it. the brussels commission has published the annual report on the protection of financial interests, the pif, with a total of around €2 billion in fraud in 2022. but there is one line missing from the table: the fraud line in brussels. no conflict of interest, no free travel to qatar, no traffic of influencers. st. brussels, pray for us. the pfizer-biontech giant contracts case revealed a culture of openness, impunity and incompetence. the commission has also proposed a new approach to the treatment of the disease in the eu. reestablish trust. how can you describe the scene of the european prosecutor's investigation into the sms where one hesitates between the stealth inspector and the ghost of the opera? i see that mrs von der leyen was unable to stop the huge sums paid to pfizer-biontech. but in 2023, it blocked erasmus's €1,000 per student funding with hungary, penalizing 40,000 hungarian and european students. weak with strong and strong with weak. that is why i voted against fraud but for hungary.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last thursday, europe took on its responsibilities. last thursday, the whole union sent a clear message to president putin. until ukraine regains its full territorial sovereignty, europe will stand with the ukrainians. eur 50 billion by 2027 will be used to support kiev to protect itself, to finance its schools, hospitals and, eventually, to rebuild itself. the summit on 1 february was a new demonstration of the unity of the twenty-seven, a new demonstration that the union will always be at the edge of crises, united: alongside ukrainians who risk their lives every day to repel the invasion and alongside europeans themselves. the european union is not interested in complicity with the regime of vladimir putin. the people who are making this speech are the pyromaniacs of europe, and their calls for peace in the form of a ceasefire, we know perfectly well what they are covering: the kremlin's ambition to make ukraine a russian territory. europe is taking responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, and this summit has also been marked by budgetary progress. without financial means, there is no public policy. that is why we need to be even more ambitious. a good agreement on the revision of our budget is good; a good agreement is better. for, dear colleagues, we will not finance our future with tips. our future, our ambition as europeans, is to be free. we are free to produce on our own land the strategic goods europe needs: medicines, batteries, vehicles, we are free to choose our trusted partners, and we are free to decide for ourselves and for ourselves our future. this is european sovereignty. this sovereignty is also our food sovereignty. europe is once again taking responsibility for its agriculture, because it has a duty to feed those who feed us. the farmers have sent a clear message to us all: we must allow them to be free, free to live and work their lives without being stifled by paperwork. let us not be mistaken about the target: our farmers are the architects of the green transition, and i am proud that renew europe has protected the cap until 2027 and has doubled the funds for young farmers. the european agricultural policy is not only to be built for farmers, but also to be built with them. as populists from all sides want, as they always do, to use the anger movement as a tool, i have a question for you to ask: to those of you who say that europe is abandoning the countryside, where were you when we supported and even increased the resources allocated to the agricultural world? you vote for the standards and you don't give a single euro. whether you like it or not, europe is growing in power, and it is not about to stop, because we will not weaken our support for ukraine, our climate and the future of our farmers. this is our way, and we will not turn away.
the council has agreed unanimously on a positive overall approach. we will have the resources to show our commitment and solidarity with ukraine and with migration. but there are some negative aspects that need to be corrected. we need a european union where you are committed to research and innovation. the council is cutting research and innovation. in the pandemic, we have shown that having a european health programme is positive. the council is cutting the european health programme. in cohesion policy, in direct management, it has cut agriculture. it is a matter of direct management by the commission when it was necessary to give an important signal to farmers. member states make legislation and then are not responsible for it. they think that it is the responsibility of the commission and they do not give farmers the necessary resources. in addition, they have every possibility of having financial resources. why not use the frozen russian confiscated assets, which can serve as collateral for investeu as collateral, for example? they have eur 40 billion of their own revenue, which comes from the market for emission allowances and the internal market of the border carbon adjustment mechanism. they want these resources to increase national budgets. it was important that they come to the eu budget.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thankfully viktor orbán has not succeeded in killing european financial aid to ukraine. but honestly, there is no need to panic, because this aid is not enough, and it will be even less if the americans elect donald trump in november and leave us alone. so where in europe can we find the funds to support ukraine massively even when european taxpayers are already in a difficult situation? well, this resource exists, we have seen it for two years: over €200 billion of russian public funds are held in european banks. yes, over €200 billion is kept warm until the war is over and then probably returned. that's totally absurd. this 200 billion must be seized and allocated to ukraine. such a decision, taken with our g7 partners, would be a legitimate countermeasure to an aggressor state and an anticipation of the reparations that russia must pay. this does not cost european citizens a euro and it sends a clear message to moscow: there will be no going back. why don't we do it? why are paris and berlin so strongly opposed to this option? we need answers. (the speaker agrees to answer a question in blue card)
blue-card question. – colleague, as you just expressed your strong support for helping ukraine to help us defend the european security architecture and our freedom, would you support the estonian proposal that every eu member state should dedicate 0.25 % of their gdp to military support for ukraine?
blue-card answer. – mr bütikofer, i would really support it, and i am supporting it, because when i’m looking at the kiel institute ranking – ranking the help to ukraine – i’m ashamed. i have to say i’m ashamed. i am ashamed first of my own government. because when you see that france is avant-avant-dernière in terms of help to ukraine, it means that in paris people did not understand what’s at stake. as you mentioned very clearly, it’s not out of generosity that we are helping ukraine. it’s because it’s our security, our sovereignty, our stability that is at stake, and it’s high time for capitals to understand it in europe.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. it is crucial to our european security. our pressure has clearly paid off, because, council and commission, you have not yielded to orbán's blackmail. i am also very pleased that you have listened to the needs of our farmers. europe is taking its responsibility here very clearly. i am also hearing today from a very strong commission president, ursula von der leyen, about this strategic dialogue. but time is running out. we need tangible results. there are a thousand farmers disappearing in europe every day. our belgian prime minister alexander de croo has also listened to the peasants. he promised to work with the belgian presidency on a ten-point plan to reduce that administrative mess. i'll call them very quickly: carry out an impact analysis of the lasagna of all laws imposed on farmers; the removal of that mandatory 4% of the land lying in drainage; dare to think about the regrouping of those protected areas; and of course the trade agreements: the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. let us show respect for the peasants and let the peasant style survive in europe. i would like to give you our ten-point plan, based on my discussions with the truen, limburg and flemish farmers.
- madam president, please. it is already significant that the green party here portrays orbán as the great loser of ukrainian politics. this may be a technical discussion about whether he's a loser or not. you know who i think is the loser of this whole cause? it's the mothers, it's the children, it's the parents, it's the survivors and families of an estimated half a million people who have already given their lives in this conflict. and that is what i have said and meant and asked from the beginning: not with one wave after another of sanctions, not with money and more money and more and more billions to spread this war situation here, to pour oil into the fire, but to seek to do everything possible to bring peace at least to try to push forward peace negotiations here on european soil so that this death can be ended here. over 130 billion have already flowed to ukraine; down from my home country, 3.5 billion. now, with the future 50 billion, it will be about 5 billion for austria. it is a huge tax reform that could have been carried out in the country. the americans have paid only half of what the europeans pay. and the americans are doing business with this more than condemnable war on liquefied natural gas. if you want to pursue your policy this way, then you also take the responsibility of the united states to provide more money than they do. in this context, let me also briefly mention what happened last week in brussels: 1400 tractors, farmers from all over belgium and france, who came here not to cause trouble but to ask a european administration to do nothing more and nothing less than survive as farmers. please go to these people and make sure that europe's agriculture has a decent income and a livelihood. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you for the opportunity to ask you a question, mr. wilmsky. you said you wished for peace. do you believe putin will stop attacking ukraine? you believe putin will leave ukraine if ukraine stops defending itself? you think anyone here doesn't want peace? we want peace in ukraine, but we support ukraine in its defense. do you trust putin? please answer me. do you trust putin when you call for peace?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i don't believe you now, and i don't believe me. it is the political objective that this europe, built on the principles of peace, freedom, prosperity and security for all, should seriously offer peace talks here in such a situation. the negotiations that have taken place in turkey, in a nato country may not have been the optimal ground for bringing these peace negotiations to a nato country. i'm from austria. vienna is the seat of the un, the seat of the osce. we could have tried to get the parties to the conflict to a table. whether peace is really possible or not, whether a negotiated success can be achieved or not, is secondary. it's primarily about preventing this death and doing everything possible to bring peace here... (the president deprives the speaker of his speech.)
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. outside, hundreds of thousands of european farmers are taking to the streets to protest against brussels' decisions that are damaging farmers and farming. millions of illegal migrants are pouring into europe at their gates through the union's unprotected external borders. here, inside the house and in other eu institutions, there have been brutal corruption scandals. brussels is the corruption capital with the european parliament. instead of worrying about serious problems affecting the daily lives of europeans, the bureaucrats in brussels continue to blackmail hungary. the brussels bureaucracy is attacking hungary, which, unlike them, is able to defend its borders. hungary, which, instead of brussels, was able to protect hungarian farmers by banning imports of ukrainian cereals. it's clearer than the sun that there must be change in brussels. in june, not only we hungarians, but people all over europe will have the opportunity to finally disrupt the corrupt and useless bureaucrats of brussels.
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr commissioner! we, the rapporteur on the multiannual financial perspective, are well aware of the seriousness of the situation. and we realize how much depends on the european parliament today. we are therefore very pleased to have adopted the european council decision on aid to ukraine. but we know that this decision can only come into force after the european parliament has approved it. that's why our attitude, our actions and our speed are absolutely critical here. but for the european union to provide good aid to ukraine for the future, it needs a strong industry, good scientific research. he needs to have a stable budget. and that is why we believe that the decision to review is absolutely necessary, necessary and right. we are in the process of completing all the work and we hope that this way we will get a budget that will be more flexible, that will be prepared for crisis situations, that will allow us to support ukraine in the long run. we are therefore ready, as the european parliament, to act quickly and concretely and we count on the constructive position of the belgian presidency.
madam president, commissioner, mr president, 1 february 2024 is a double victory. a victory for ukraine, first of all: our aid of €50 billion is a strong new signal. we have been, we are and we will always be at the meeting of history. our duty is to stand with the ukrainians, who defend their freedom and sovereignty, who set our european values as the standard. a victory for the european union, then: viktor orbán, today, is completely isolated. his blackmail didn't work. more united than ever, we have not given up and we will not yield to the sirens of fear and the toads of terror. these victories must not go unnoticed. we need lasting solutions, solutions to avoid any veto or cowardice by some, solutions to maintain and strengthen our european unity, solutions to ensure that our common destiny is truly that of peace, freedom and sovereignty.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, while the situation in ukraine deserves all the attention, it must not lead to situations which are detrimental to our own nationals. however, joining ukraine in the european union would be disastrous for our farmers and for our farmers, especially in france. i would like to address this particular aspect of agriculture. since the beginning of the conflict, the european union has yielded to all the demands of ukraine, leaving mainly its poultry and cereals free access to the european market, even if it sacrifices our farmers. however, even the most fervent supporters of ukraine, such as poland, had to re-establish barriers to entry for ukrainian cereals in the face of deadly competition for their own agriculture. in 2018, ukraine was the world's fifth largest producer of maize and the eighth largest producer of wheat. we're measuring the threat to our producers. the import of ukrainian foodstuffs which are supposed to transit through europe for export to the rest of the world has caused enormous difficulties for many sectors, including france. between 15 000 and 25 000 tonnes of poultry are brought to europe each month, and the prices are two to four times lower than those produced in france. however, these millions of ukrainian chickens do not meet our standards and are still in the big distribution, leading to broken, fatal prices for our own quality products. the macronists and the republicans at this assembly, who pretend to defend the french agricultural world in paris, voted for this customs facilitation. the latter will expire in june. the european union must give up its extension. it is a question of survival for our european and french sectors. we shall see who votes for what, rather than just a matter of circumstance and flattery.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european summit on 1 february was a success, as it confirmed our financial support to ukraine. but we are not hiding our face. as far as our military assistance is concerned, this summit is a failure, and in many ways. the eighth european military aid tranche has been blocked for months by hungary. the future of a european facility for visible and predictable peace for ukraine is uncertain. nothing has been decided yet, and most importantly, no funding has been clarified. rather than taking expected decisions and taking action, our countries accuse each other of not doing enough, when all of us should be doing more, much more and faster, much faster. the ammunition plan is not keeping its promises: 500,000 ammunition delivered to kiev is half of what was announced, and it is still very insufficient. i therefore thank all european leaders for their commitment to ukraine and to the security of europe. never forget: failure is not an option, and self-satisfaction is not a method. slava ukrainian!
mr president, my colleagues, he was going to kiev in three days and where is he? two years later, vladimir putin has only 17.5 percent of ukraine's territory and controls neither the black sea nor crimea. this is called defeat, but how can we help the ukrainians turn it into victory? well, it is up to our 27 leaders we must tell our nations that we are at war, not on the eve of marching on moscow, but in war for the freedom of our people and the stability of our continent, and that this war requires heavy sacrifices, a common defense and a will to win that we will not be able to mobilize without our voters knowing who is with whom. so tell me, you far-right, which side are you really on, putin or freedom? only under these conditions will ukraine win, because this power of thieves and incapable has no invincible force.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we thought that europe had woken up from its long geopolitical slumber, this sinister 24 february 2022. we had hoped that after so many mistakes and weaknesses our leaders would finally open their eyes and understand. but the sleepwalkers keep wandering, haggard, doomed to perpetual lethargy. it's been two years. two years! so how come the 200 billion russian rupees frozen in our banks have not yet been seized? how can we explain the lack of weapons and the lack of ammunition that is affecting the ukrainian resistance? where is the war economy promised every 15 days? it's been two years, and france is proud to deliver 2,000 rounds a month, while russia fires 10,000 rounds a day at the front. all this is pathetic. we pretend to support ukraine in solidarity, whereas it is the realism and awareness of our vital interests that guide our support. putin's war is not a war for donbass or crimea. it is a war against europe, against our democracies, against us. the hour is past, and the wake-up call is not over. slava ukrainian! long live europe!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have an important decision on a regulation governing the use of new breeding practices in agriculture. we have to stop the train that's leaving us. europe is the cradle of genetic research. and that's what makes us today have cancer drugs, we have insulin, we have vaccines, we can fight against malignancies. because of conventional breeding, our farmers have the most productive varieties, but they know that we need new varieties and we need them quickly, otherwise we will not be able to cope with the impacts of climate change and competition. we don't want to go back to gmo. instead, we want to stop the import of millions of tons of gmo soybeans and gmo corn from north and south america. we don't want to be associated with this. that difference is absolutely essential. new genomic techniques only work with targeted gene changes, without introducing foreign genetic material. so we're going back to the natural processes of cross-breeding using the crispr/cas gene scissors method, very specifically and very quickly. i want to thank the commission for a very good proposal and i want to thank the cooperation in the agri committee and the envi committee to improve the proposal in the field of labelling, verification and patenting. the only thing left is to put this proposal to the member states' deliberations so that we can approve the new legislation in this mandate.
madam president, let us be responsible and reject the demands of bayer-monsanto, corteva or limagrain! we must reject the irreversible deregulation of gmos! the political choice we have to make is clear: the patented profits of a few or the general interest, the naive confidence in the supposed power of technology or the guarantee of our food sovereignty and the independence of peasants and peasants, the explosion in seed prices or the protection of our farmers and peasants. the court of justice of the european union has however recalled that genetically modified organisms are genetically modified organisms, which is not unpleasant to the sellers of illusions who hope to make large profits at the expense of farmers and consumers. we are even told that gmos could be organic, contrary to the opinion of organic farmers! the legislation on gmos is actually enough on its own. scientific studies, traceability, choice: why today? however, europeans have repeatedly expressed their wish to be able to choose non-gmo foods. farmers themselves wish to be able to choose their seeds. but the majority of this parliament today prefers to impose on them opacity, explosive prices and, at the end of the day, a system that strangles them. we will oppose it.
madam president, we are once again caught up in this unhealthy trap that is killing our agriculture. on the other hand, we have the apostles of decline, who magnify the stone age without taking into account the fact that their ideas kill agronomic science like our farmers in the name of an infallible, totally fanciful mother nature. on the other side we have the savage economics gurus, for whom science is a lever of profit and an excellent means of pressing nations' food independence. yes, this report is poorly structured and obscure. this is in vain what lanses in france said. there is no precautionary principle, no risk assessment, no transparency for consumers, no protection of conventional or organic crops. what are we gonna have in our plates? we'll never know. who really wants this text? the peasants? no, it is the seed traders who will technically take even more of our agricultural independence. it becomes vital to extract from this sterile binary. let us help science to preserve our farms, but let us remain firm on our obvious principles of sovereignty and respect for the consumer.
madam president, our message is clear: we do not want these new gmos. i am speaking here on behalf of thousands of european citizens who write to us every day expressing their anger and indignation at these new gmos that they would eat without even being able to identify. everyone is against it. farmers are concerned about the introduction of these genetically modified products, the scientific community points to a lack of backwardness towards new genomic techniques and the health and environmental consequences, and the bio-sector is alarmed by the contamination of their plots by these seeds, endangering the whole sector. the only people who are rubbing their hands today are multinationals, biotech giants, bayers, monsanto, who see it as a way to increase production and their profits on the backs of consumers and, of course, the planet. in europe, gmos are governed by the 2001 directive, which allows states to prohibit their cultivation on their territory under the precautionary principle. this legislation is sufficient. if this text is adopted, these gmos will multiply and standardise agriculture. that's not the answer. what we want is an alternative, sustainable and just agricultural model that will allow for real food sovereignty, away from the control of agrochemistry. that is why we call unambiguously for the rejection of this regulation.
madam president, i am one of the many people who spoke before me who do not support this proposal in its current form, because whether we call it ngt or gmo, it is still plant genetic modification and for me it is not a natural process and we still do not have enough information about the consequences and consequences that all this can have not only for the human organism but also for the environment. i think consumers, because we grow everything in some way to have something to eat, which is of course a prerequisite for me and for these crops or for these new seeds, consumers should have an informed choice. that means they should know what's in it. and when we have some products today that say it's gmo-free. it's something people are literally looking for, and we don't have to go out and look at those protesting farmers, or the hundreds, thousands of emails we get when we know it's something people don't want. so it's important to me that if we're going to make any adjustments like this, the one on the table is not good. i don't like him. we need to have clear research. we need to know what the consequences are for the human body, for the environment, for pollinators. we need to know what the consequences of this can be for example for organic farming, which is of course very specific, but i think, as mrs toth said, i think that member states should decide what they want to grow on their territory and whether they will agree to allow such breeding techniques to be used in seeds in their environment or in their country.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has already made a number of proposals. i was here a few years ago as rapporteur for the farm-to-fork strategy, and the farm-to-fork strategy has been agreed and that is also part of the green deal that new breeding methods can contribute to a more sustainable agriculture in the european union. this house has voted with a large majority at the time, and now we are going to implement it, and we have, of course, several options: we can't do anything. that's probably the most pleasant thing. but we would also create a grey area, and we would risk the rest of the world going ahead and importing products. i don't think that's the way the farmers can see it. or we need to find a reasonable way, and i think the work that has been done in the environment committee and also in our agriculture committee is a good work and that we have a good basis for voting here tomorrow because i really believe that these plants can contribute to less plant protection in agriculture. one more word about organic farming: i have been very committed to the fact that organic farmers, as they have decided, if they do not want to use these plants, they do not need to use them. but i also now expect organic farmers to respect that conventional farming is just going the other way. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
question blue card. mr dorfmann, you are telling us that these new technologies will enable us to move ahead of the ambitions of the strategy farm to table. the new technologies are opposed to seed autonomy and to the genetic autonomy of farmers, who have solutions through the eco-types they develop themselves. these new technologies threaten them because of the potential pollution that these new varieties of gmos can offer. so i don't see how you find these two topics compatible. you have spoken of the import of products which would have come from these new technologies. should we not instead work on mirror measures to prevent the import of these products instead of developing new genetic-focusing technologies in our territory?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i have seen myself, even when research has been done in my own region, that there are indeed possibilities for producing more robust plants. i'll give you an example: the grape. we've been crossing vineyards for decades, getting so-called piwi plants. after decades, we are growing less than 1% of these plants across the european union because there are problems with them because these plants do not have the quality requirements that are needed. and it can be achieved to achieve the exact same result as crossing this technology. the plants are resistant to peronospora, and i think even organic farmers who do copper treatments 25 times a year will think about it a little bit. as for imports, you know exactly that these products are not identifiable, so we're going to get these products imported. the agriculture committee was in israel a few months ago; the commission has already been working on these products. how do you want to regulate the import of products from these plants? (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card procedure.)
question blue card. thank you, mr dorfmann, for bringing up wine, and that was my question. can you tell me what the impact of the new gmos and ntgs will be on the wine sector? is it true that a large chardonnay wine in a geographical indication, if you have a chardonnay ntg, will always be a chardonnay? or will the geographical indication have to be re-designated?
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i would like to ask the commissioner what is the commission's position on this matter. it is necessary, of course, to clarify, especially in the case of varieties where the varieties are equally important in viticulture, fruit cultivation , whether this is a new variety or whether the old variety name, the traditional variety name, is still used. but we don't have an answer yet.
madam president, commissioner, it is a pity that the belgian presidency is not present. maybe he's not very interested in this subject. i'm not. these new genomic techniques are innovative tools that will enable improved plant varieties to be developed more effectively that can be climate resilient and pest-resistant, which will require less fertilisers and pesticides and/or ensure higher yields. this proposal only applies to plants produced by directed mutagenesis and cisgenesis and their food and feed derivatives. they are by no means transgenic, even if the publicity wants to match them. with these production techniques, farmers will benefit from greater availability of vegetables adapted to the needs of the sector in terms of climate resilience. so we need a new specific regulation that distinguishes these new genomic techniques. there are two proposed categories: category 1, equivalent to conventional production, and category 2, for which the commission itself sets more stringent requirements adapted to the specificity. i respect the decision of the majority represented in the sector organisations on the implementation of organic production. respect, i don't share it, but respect. i therefore agree with the exclusion of organic production from this regulation. i agree with the prudent and conservative commission proposal and with most of the proposals of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, except amendment no 84, on which i call on you to vote against. i also agree with the proposals of the committee on agriculture and rural development. so innovation for sustainability available to our european farmers is what we all need, and i want it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 25 july 2018: what does the court of justice of the european union say? she tells us that no matter how we get a genetic modification, we're dealing with gmos. rather than respect a decision of the court of justice of the european union, we are trying to change the regulations on gmos without saying that they are gmos. as the earth trembles under the wrath of farmers, as we are constantly confronted with food sovereignty alerts in the event of climate accidents here on the planet, or geopolitical accidents elsewhere on the planet, rather than going back to basics, to tackle the causes of what threatens food sovereignty and farmers' incomes, we are adding an additional layer of leakage forward. finally, we are creating new dependencies on seedlings through these new gmos, while farmers and farmers have the solution through eco-types, which respond to these issues of climate change and food sovereignty, because productivity is the same. we are continuing to undermine the expectations of consumers and citizens who express themselves in the ices and we are continuing to undermine the precautionary principle by leaking forward, while the fundamentals are based on agronomy to solve all problems. so i ask you to vote against this resolution on gmos and this regulation, which is absolutely disastrous for farmers and for the future of future generations.
mr president, like fakirs, our european commissioners are walking on the brim of our broken industries and crushed agriculture. they are not concerned, they even advocate a net reduction of 90% of our greenhouse gases by 2040. ten countries, including france, have followed denmark's example in achieving this goal. do you realize that you're only announcing a return to the middle ages? how can we achieve this goal? to give up all motorized transportation or become hunter-gatherers? are you going to tell us that international trade and free trade will end? can you tell us clearly what your roadmap is to achieve this goal, please? and will you also continue to play the role of a shield against national governments which, like the macron-attal government in france, make promises to farmers with one hand, but in fact put everything back in your hands and docially administer this destruction that you are organising? we were aware of this, but now we are certain that our farmers will be sacrificed on the altar of your declining ideology. only be honest about accepting it out of respect for democratic transparency.
mr president, commissioner, while our farmers are here in this parliament to demonstrate their right to live decently, you set us totally insane targets for the next 20 years. stop pretending that by acting alone for the rest of the world, the european union will have some influence on the climate. the european countries have already achieved far more virtuous carbon balances than the rest of the world thanks to the sacrifices of our people. what about china and the united states? three years ago, though, we were already discussing targets for 2030. we have clearly warned you against popular anger, against overwhelmed motorists, against farmers who can no longer live off their labour and against our industrial decline. and three years later, here's the result: the auto industry has rejected revenue standards, and farmers are on the streets and rejecting your punitive, totally disconnected ideology. you have acted against the european people, in the sole interest of your european bubble. the polls show that this ideology will be sanctioned in the polls. today, you have only one option: give it to your constituents. then make your choices totally foolish.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. the commissioner has said that the commission is not prepared to take any further action to prevent the spread of the disease. in recent years, extreme flooding has also been added. actually, we're dealing with two sides of the same room. we have been able to retain this vital, yet essential, yet strategic resource for life on the planet, because we always wanted to get water out to sea faster and faster. no longer holding it back prevents us from letting it infiltrate to recharge natural resources, underground resources, which leads to drought and difficulty in accessing water. the situation in catalonia should however be a warning. european citizens in catalonia cannot have access to clean drinking water in mid-february. the situation is therefore absolutely worrying. the example of the aunis plain, near la rochelle, france, should also be a warning. all catchment areas have had to be closed, not because of water shortages, but because of severe pollution, which makes water no longer available to european citizens. it is therefore time to act and i welcome the european commission's willingness to present work on water and resilience. for this communication to be meaningful, it must focus on three aspects, in my view: european governance that allows us to escape border logics; prioritizing uses, so that drinking water is the central issue and that these scarcity phenomena no longer exist (while imagining in this hierarchy access to other uses, such as the good state of aquatic environments, access to economic water, agriculture); finally, and this seems to me central and strategic, a comprehensive programme to restore wetlands and natural areas so that they fulfil their functions of recharging groundwater and purifying water, which is needed to provide clean and good quality drinking water to all.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, commissioner, we are facing an unprecedented water crisis. the drought of summer 2023 has had a lasting impact on our farmers. have you heard them in this house? i hope so, anyway. they can no longer take on the climate risks while applying the painful european constraints. it is therefore high time that europe has a water strategy worthy of its name, which is not limited to punitive sanctions but is pragmatic and responsible. europeans are tired of your ambition for variable geometry: an unlimited ambition when it comes to sanctioning and an ambition to discount when it comes to investing in the long term for future technologies. technology and ecology are not opposing forces, but rather: let us invest heavily in cutting-edge innovations for seawater desalination and wastewater reuse. it is imperative for our future to establish advanced processing systems to recover and reuse these precious resources, especially in the crucial sectors of agriculture and industry. you proved it by unlocking 50 billion for ukraine, 50 billion: the funds are available, so act!
i'm coming to a message. in accordance with rule 241 (4) of the rules of procedure, i would like to inform you that no motion for a vote has been tabled on the amendment of the juri committee, which was announced yesterday at the opening of the plenary session. the amendment is therefore deemed to have been adopted.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion of the council and commission statements on the russia gate and the alleged interference of russia in the democratic processes of the european union (2024/2548(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. mr president. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, we are at a crucial moment in our history. we all know that 2024 will be a great election year, with more than 80 countries going to vote, which means that about half of the world's voting age citizens will be on the ballot. as you know, the defence of democratic principles and the promotion of free and fair elections are among the priorities of the belgian presidency, and strengthening our democracies goes hand in hand with another resistance: resistance to disinformation, propaganda and foreign interference. that is why we have taken the initiative to prepare council conclusions on electoral resilience and safeguarding democratic processes against foreign interference. these conclusions are being discussed and i hope they will be adopted in the coming weeks. the security environment in europe has changed significantly in recent years, first and foremost with russia's war aggression against ukraine and its hostile stance towards the european union and partners which translates into hostile rhetoric, hybrid actions that aim to manipulate and interfere. we must do everything we can to build resilience to foreign interference and make swift use of the mechanisms, networks and tools at our disposal. many eu programmes and initiatives aim to preserve a democratic debate against foreign interference, such as the hybrid toolbox and the fimi toolkits that were developed as part of the eu strategic compass. these tools can lead to very concrete decisions, such as the restrictive measures that the council adopted last july against seven russian individuals and five entities responsible for an online manipulation campaign. the council, in cooperation with parliament, is also committed to strengthening european legislation. we have reached an agreement on a strong system for political advertising labelling. as part of the democracy package, we have just begun to consider the commission's new proposal to ensure that the representation of interests on behalf of third countries is recorded in a transparent manner. it is essential to reiterate that all union entities must work in synergy to make the best use of the relevant mechanisms to anticipate and respond to any form of foreign interference. member states and the european institutions shall regularly exchange and evaluate information on hybrid mechanisms and the threats they pose. the european parliament also played a very important role, in particular in the work of the special committee on foreign interference in the european union's democratic processes, including disinformation. i am sure that the presidency will do everything in its power to ensure that this issue remains at the heart of our work in the coming months.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, madame la ministre, honourable members, i appreciate that you will focus more on what i have to say, rather than on the state of my voice, but i will try to get through. our democracy is strong and resilient, but needs to constantly evolve and adapt. we are all aware of the many threats, such as foreign interference coming from russia or other authoritarian forces, but also floods of disinformation, fake news, cyberattacks, just to mention a few. we have, collectively, to remain vigilant and address these risks decisively. let me start first with the diagnostics. what are we really facing these days? only two weeks ago, a report by the german federal foreign office found that russia had used more than 50 000 fake accounts on x, sending more than one million tweets in order to manipulate public opinion only in germany. during the pandemic, systematic disinformation campaigns sought to foster doubts about the successful vaccination programmes of the eu. this showed that disinformation can really kill, because that was the worst moment when the death tolls were surging. i’m sure you would remember, as i do, the alleged russian military vehicles going up and down the italian highways to support the italian covid victims. we are also witnessing, since february 2022, a wave of disinformation used as a weapon by russia in their aggressive war against ukraine. distorting facts, publishing false de-nazification narratives and trying to take advantage of war fatigue to shift priorities and attention. finally, we also now know of the multiple attempts to interfere with democratic processes and systems in the european union across europe that have also been made systematically by russia and recognised and documented in the report of the european parliament’s special committee. let me recall the findings of multiple studies of russian-based social media accounts and russian-paid online advertising, massively engaging in the days before the brexit referendum in favour of leave. we now know all the reports on close and regular contacts, including organised visits between russian officials and representatives of a group of catalan secessionists in spain between 2017 and 2020. of course, it is deeply troubling, the recent allegations that a member of this house could be working on behalf of the russian federal security services. but i believe it’s a duty of this house to investigate who else did what, under what conditions, to play the game of moscow. kremlin’s war of ideas is a multi-million euro weapon of mass manipulation. as we have already recognised in the commission’s security union strategy, it is used to mislead and deceive our citizens, divide, polarise and exploit the vulnerabilities of our societies, ultimately to destabilise the european democracy. let me now quickly, mr president, come to the actions that we have been developing in the von der leyen commission to counter this unprecedented wave of russian interference. we have developed six concrete initiatives. i will take them one by one. step one: in december last year we propose the defence of democracy package. then the idea is to focus on transparency and democratic accountability while addressing the issue of foreign interference. the key element of this package is a proposal for a directive laying down common transparency and accountability standards for interest representation on behalf of their countries. step number two: the recently agreed european media freedom act will strengthen regulatory coordination in order to protect the internal media market from foreign outlets, those that engage in systematic international campaigns of manipulation and interference. with this law, we have also reached a political agreement on the regulation of transparency of political advertising. step number three: three years ago, together with parliament and the council, we reached the agreement on the mandatory transparency register. we believe that the eu institutions must meet the highest standards of transparency and integrity. step number four: ethics and accountability. we have adopted a proposal for the creation of an interinstitutional ethics body and, with this proposal, there will be, for the first time, common standards for ethical conduct of members of all institutions. we are proud in the commission to have been following these rules to the letter. we really hope that the european institutions can work together to find an agreement on the creation of a body that would harmonise the conditions across the institutional landscape. step number five: in may, we presented a legislative proposal to update the criminal law approach to corruption. our proposal would close the gaps between different definitions of corruption, so that all kinds of corruption phenomena are criminalised, including trading in influence, abuse of power, and obstruction of justice. of course, all eu politicians, all members of the institutions, will be covered by this proposal. finally, step number six, and probably the ultimate weapon: we now have in the european union a solid regulatory framework with the digital services act that allows us to enable and deploy regulatory instruments against the platforms and those who refuse to cooperate in defending the citizens of europe against this phenomenon. thank you all for your participation today. i look forward to the debate.
on behalf of the epp group. what a mess! the confirmation that zhdanok is a russian security service agent in latvia was not a surprise. much more disturbing is the fact that she is not the only one in strasbourg and brussels, but also in the capitals, who has been unabated in implementing russian intervention policies aimed at building the unity of our society, creating hatred and disbelief against european values, and promoting populism and extremism. the resolution we will vote on thursday gives just a few examples, but the reality is much worse. the network of russian agents of influence in europe is extensive and toxic. the kremlin has taken advantage of the union of councils and has successfully developed it, including representatives of the political elites of the european union - from schröder, livonia, fijon, etc., meps and local authorities and cultural stars of various sizes. in this latest russiagate story, what's shocking is our naivety and vulnerability to russian agents who operate on the basis of democratic values freedom of speech, respect for diversity of opinion and tolerance, as well as gaps in our legislation. the fact that these agencies are able to use the european union's funding, resources and platform in their busy work is shocking. since russia began its aggression in ukraine, the european union has been subject to increasingly widespread hybrid crashes. the presence of such foreign agents in the european parliament and other institutions of our democracy therefore poses significant risks to our security and credibility. i call on the european parliament to investigate immediately and carefully the cases where members have used their mandate to support an aggressor state and to take decisive action to prevent such activities in the future. our resources must not be used to undermine the values of the european union and to undermine authoritarian regimes.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, remember, and if you have forgotten, i remember and i can refresh your memory. remember that after the qatargate, on both the far right and the far left of this house, we have been working to talk about qatar, to try to end the special committee on foreign interference in the broad sense, not to mention russian interference in our parliament. the amendments to the report i was making at the time by the far right and the far left are here to prove it. we didn't need to talk about russia anymore. thankfully, i have stood up, my colleagues, and thankfully, most of us have. they seem to be over on the far right and the far left, now that we read the details published in the press of a specific action by russia to use a european mep for propaganda and intelligence purposes. they seem smart to those who have always twisted their noses when asked about the links between the catalan independenceists and the russian authorities. now that the question has been raised, my colleagues, do not act like them, keep your eyes open. and please remember that russian manipulation is a weapon of mass destruction of our democracy.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner! after the insider report, i was asked by many foreign journalists if this was a surprise to you as a latvian. of course not. why? why? because tatyana zhdanok has been working since the late 1980s until the 1990s, the year we regained our independence. she has never been allowed by latvian law to participate in national elections. the european parliament elections were unfortunately a success. and now she will no longer be able to participate in the european parliament elections because a latvian lawmaker changed the law after russia's war in ukraine broke out. so this question is not really about the fate of queen zdanaka or a further investigation. this is a question of what we as an institution of the european parliament can do to improve this institution. like the katargheit, what to do with this russiagate, how can we put this picture up so that such cases are investigated, first, whether there are similar cases, and second, that they never recur when european taxpayers' money was actually used to achieve the objectives of the russian specimens. so i would call, and i have already called, actually to reconsider the code of conduct, which i used in english during the investigation. so we should see if we need to change the procedures, as we did in the european parliament after katarguiti. it's one. it is therefore essential to improve communication with the services in the member states which could conclude such similar activities in due course. and we may have to go through a much faster and, perhaps, much more secretive procedure, in which we investigate and give the law enforcement authorities in the member states the right to investigate this particular politician if he has been potentially suspected of espionage. that's what we did in latvia with a member of parliament who was voted out of the national parliament within 24 hours and is now on trial for spying for russia. so we're gonna keep our house in order!
for the id group. mr president! i think it is a very good rhetoric here that if you are afraid of the state of democracy, you must look to the right. but the truth is something else. if you want to see who is accepting money from the islamic regime in qatar, you have to look at the social democrats and the socialists. if you're looking at who's helping the russian intelligence community, you're looking at the green party. so your perception of reality must actually crumble when you are confronted with reality. but of course, if denial lives here in the house, and with denial, so does your fight against freedom of speech. freedom of expression, which is the very foundation of democracy, suffers from the distorted notion that voters must be protected from certain statements that certain views are dangerous. you want to use exactly the same methods as the despots. you want to push the big social media, facebook, x, and so on, to limit views. it is simply misinformation to be a skeptic of the eu. it is disinformation to be critical of mass immigration. that's the policy you're pursuing. you do not want a democratic debate because you are afraid of it. you're gonna hit it with a ban. you will strike it with obligations to limit certain political positions, and thus put yourself in the same box as putin, as china, as the despots in the middle east. if you do not believe that democracy is strong enough to break views, to break opinions, it disappears. and if you're so afraid of losing the debate, you don't belong in politics. that's the lesson here: you're anti-democrats when you fight for freedom of speech.
on behalf of the band the left. mr president, our european parliament is under control. after qatar, we hear that a member of parliament works for the russian secret services. this putin meddling is outrageous, but don't count on me crying with the surprise-feeling hypocrites. the truth is that in the european institutions, corruption is not an accident but a system. the truth is that you, mr. schinas, are teaching a lot of ethics lessons today, but when it came to qatar and you had your hands in it, you didn't hesitate to give them a hand. the truth, my colleagues, is that most of you refuse to have serious rules and controls and that impunity is established by law. the truth is that a quarter of the members here have violated the law or regulation corruption, embezzlement, harassment. corrupt people, my colleagues, are like vampires. they hate light. so we will continue to get a huge spotlight on these practices. and on 9 june we will have the opportunity to clean up and expel all the witches from the european institutions.
mr president, they say tatjana ždanoka is an agent. yes, i am an agent – an agent for peace, an agent for europe without fascism, an agent for minority rights, an agent for a united europe from lisbon to the urals. i want to apologise here and now, before the people, for not being a successful agent. in 2004, the european union regarded russia as a strategic partner. people responsible for the eastern direction in eu policy willingly came to the eu-russia forums i held and thanked me for organising them. ten years on, an official change of wording in relation to russia from ‘partnership and cooperation’ to ‘critical engagement’ took place. still, we insisted it will be impossible to solve the conflict around ukraine if the eu works against russia. now, two decades on, the world is losing its chance for peace. in russian, the concepts of the world and peace are denoted by one word: mir. i am an agent for ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the plenary sessions are taking place in succession, and our debates are also devoted to the attacks of authoritarian regimes on our democracy. our institution is under attack, targeted by various foreign actors. once again, we are ashamed of the behaviour of some members of this house. let us be clear: working for russian interests is a betrayal of europe and a betrayal of democracy. the war launched by the putin regime did not begin on 24 february 2022 and it is not limited to the borders of ukraine. it is aimed, in its hybrid form, at the very heart of our democracies. while the citizens of the european union are called upon to participate in a huge democratic meeting with themselves in four months' time, this new case highlights how fragile european democracy is, a building to be defended, cultivated and protected all the time. so let us not give up in the fight against foreign interference and the corruption that allows it. let's not let go of anything. for four years we have been warning every day of the dangers of interference with this institution and with democracies in general, and we have repeated the same thing continuously: if we do not get out of our apathy, we will witness, like impotent roman senators, the fall of the common democratic house. it is no longer permissible to be a comfortable democrat or pro-european. we must become a democrat of conviction and struggle again.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to do this. they grow up in a system that promises them great success, but only if they study hard and acquire more and more skills. years of sacrifice by themselves and their families. one internship after another, with no prospect and, above all, no adequate salary. food, housing, transportation: all on the trainees, all on our young people. we, the greens, the socialists and the left, have written a directive in black and white to end unpaid work. we have listened to the youth forum, their voices, their needs, their needs screaming from the tents where they camped because they cannot afford their rent. a few months before the european elections, the eyes of those young people are on you, commissioner, and on the european commission. they will not believe your promises and turn away from those who do not invest in their present. we must remember, my friends: social europe means dignity for all, not for the lucky few.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, knowledge transfer is essential in every society to stimulate the next generation of professionals. however, we are once again faced with an arrogant attitude with impossible demands that destroy opportunities. the aim is to favour practices only if they are subject to ideological agendas, thus despising professions rooted in our traditions, to the point of preventing the legacy of parents to children. the green pact has already had devastating consequences on employment, destroying millions of jobs in the primary and productive sectors. spain has lost 18 500 farmers and ranchers in the last seven years: 2 600 rural self-employed people close their facilities every year because of excessive environmental regulation, thus compromising our food sovereignty. it is a fanatical plan of dramatic consequences that only this part of the house has denounced during this mandate. only a change of direction on 9 june can put institutions where they should be: at the service of businesses and workers and at the service of creating opportunities for our young people, whatever their vocation.
on behalf of the ni group. - mr. president, please. let's get some fresh water in the glass. a new directive is not necessary because the diversity of national legislation and the mandatory regulation of the principle of subsidiarity are not desirable and legally impossible. but i also say that some additions are needed because of the changes in the last ten years. emphasis should be placed on the strengthening of certain elements of fair remuneration and social protection. the issue of post-placement support to facilitate the transition to stable work for trainees with disabilities and the requirement of reasonable accommodation for trainees with disabilities. quality internships contribute to the employability of young people and help employers to attract, train and retain young talent. this is particularly important in order to meet labour market demands.
the commissioner, mr president, is actually asking many interns a lot. stories about a 32-hour workweek and a task package to tell you are often commonplace, and interns are far too often not hired as an extra workforce above the regular team, but as a full-fledged force for work. they do the same job as all the other workers, but they are not or are not paid well. we're also hearing more and more stories of companies abusing the system. a dutch airline employed dozens of trainees as cabin crew for months with the same rosters but without full pay. we often say: the future is in the hands of the young. but we also need to ensure that young people, regardless of their socioeconomic background, have every opportunity to start their careers. that requires legislation. legislation ensuring that trainees are paid fairly and that they receive the same rights and protection as regular employees. we are not making this call here for the first time, but i hope that this time president von der leyen will listen. give young people more opportunities. but give them a fair wage.
mr president, i congratulate the commissioner on being aware of the urgency of this matter. last june our parliament adopted a report calling for quality internships based on the high expectations of our european youth. in this report, we asked for the quality of experience to be guaranteed to facilitate the transition to work. this is all the more important because young people are often objected to as having no experience. so they can't find that first job. we also called for better protection of trainees against abusive practices and for the end of potential practices of exclusion of certain applicants. although internships facilitate unpaid integration into the workforce, they are not available to all and young people from disadvantaged backgrounds may be deprived of this opportunity. we insist on a resolute european union action, a directive to ensure fairly remunerated work placements, a framework for work placements in the framework of studies so that they are accessible to all. in this european year of competence, these requests cannot really go unanswered.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2005, together with the collective generación precajera, we are calling for the strike of trainees. this call was ironic because the trainees were not allowed to strike. to ensure our anonymity and avoid sabotage of our entry into active life, we wore these white masks. these masks made it possible to make visible the millions of unrighteous, interchangeable invisible people who were turning the economy around. that was 20 years ago. the babies of that time became the trainees of today. (the president interrupts the speaker)
that was 20 years ago. the babies of that time became the trainees of today. nothing has changed. a workable, skilled, motivated, disposable, almost free, without rights. businesses, public services, ngos use and abuse trainees. why be deprived of it, since in all of europe this disguised work is legal? the internship was to be a gateway to employment: it is an obstacle to employment. the exploitation of trainees must cease. mr commissioner, make a directive to provide for the training of trainees and to pay trainees with dignity, but above all to prevent the replacement of employees by trainees.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, the european strategic gateway could be a good idea. we can only support the fact that european nations are working together to better defend the interests of their peoples in a multipolar world. the whole problem is the role of the european administration in developing this strategy. while the presentation of this strategy was, i quote, to 'build links and not create dependencies', we are facing a european union rejected as never before. african states can no longer tolerate our moral lessons. we demand the solidarity of africans with volodymyr zelensky, but the european union does not support the democratic republic of congo attacked by rwanda at all. middle eastern states criticize our systematic alignment with the united states, emmanuel macron's government has been humiliated in the indo-european area by the aukus alliance, and brussels is panicked every four years because it is terrified of a possible election of donald trump. in fact, what is lacking in this european union is the experience of long periods. investing in the new multipolar world, yes, but never at the expense of our foreign policy delegation to brussels.
mr president, madam commissioner, in a way like a compression scroll, crises and conflicts have for many years violently affected the world's balance. in ambush or in a completely assumed way, russia and china are shaking europe and are systematically attacking our democracies. it is therefore imperative that europe regains its place on the world political scene and defends it. in this regard, the global gateway strategy is in a way the antidote to the violent poison of beijing's new silk roads. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in its cooperation, europe must be the reverse mirror of china. we don't take back what we gave with our right hand. europe invests heavily in the indo-pacific as in africa, but we lack visibility. in addition to the battle of communication, we must win the respect and trust of our partners. respect and trust, which are built on the strengthening of the effectiveness of our cooperation.
in the name of the s&d faction. the commission has already taken a number of steps. it's good to see you in this position now. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. when i talk to people about the wto, they always say, "it's hardly moving, it's kind of yesterday". the commission has already decided to make a decision on the basis of the report by mr van den broek. the european union is extremely embroiled in imports and exports. without the stable rules of the wto, we would be at risk of our prosperity. that is why it is worth fighting for the wto to have a future. i think it is very important, mr warborn, that we have put forward a joint resolution describing the key future tasks, both in the interests of the less developed countries and in the interests of the industrialized countries. and we must contribute to this and fight for the 13th wto ministerial conference to be as successful as the 12th.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the perpetually repeated news about the imminent death of the wto has been vastly exaggerated. and that is good, because we need the wto. commissioner johansson, you have pointed out the priorities that are at the centre of our agenda, and i agree, we agree. we need dispute settlement. we need to avoid digital trade tariffs. we need mainstreaming of development. we need a solution for fisheries subsidies. and, of course, we also need, and particularly urgently, greening trade, making trade a positive tool, not an obstacle. the resolution that we have in front of us addresses these issues and that’s why the group line of my group is to support the resolution. that will not be shared by all our colleagues, because some of us have different understandings of the meaning of the word ‘compromise’. but compromise is exactly what we will need at an international level, and in particular at mc13, in our efforts to hold on to a multilateral trade system through timely reforms. we have understood that we must also use different tools. we have introduced unilateral measures, but we also run into the obvious reality that unilateral measures are not always well coordinated with our international relations. we have tried bilateralism and just saw how australia showed us the middle finger. we have advocated plurilateralism and harvested minilateralisms that fragment the trade world. this is why holding on to the perspective of a multilateral trade order is in the interest of the european union, of all its citizens, and of our partners around the globe.
in the name of the left faction. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. the agenda of the abu dhabi ministerial conference is long on the resumption of the dispute resolution mechanism, the second part of the fisheries agreement or the extension of the trips waiver, to name a few. but we must make clear that the big unanswered question is the post-wto reform. how can this institution be more just and sustainable? two thirds of the wto members are developing countries. nevertheless, the interests, structures and logic of the global north determine the future. so i say, if we really want fair trade and cooperation and a functioning, manageable global trading system in the pressing times of climate change, it's time to dismantle the structures and mechanisms that no longer work. we must finally implement the doha development agenda. we need to organize our global trading system in a way that is more focused on the prosperity of all and the preservation of the planet. trade is not an end in itself. in times when one crisis is escalating into another, cooperation is essential. i therefore hope that the wto's parliamentary dimension will make it clear that the wto can no longer hide that trade rules are linked to labour rights, inequality, climate and environmental issues.
- your honor, the president. the wto is a symbol of open, rules-based trade. the fact that 164 countries sit at the table year after year and try to develop trade between themselves is commendable, even if it is sometimes difficult. this cohesion must be built on, as it is in the interest of an export-oriented europe. i support the reform of the organisation and any proposals, including the opening of negotiations on industrial aid, which promote a level playing field in international trade. i also support the global investment facilitation agreement. so let's say yes to connectivity, no to lockdown, protectionism and the ideologization of trade. i ask the commission and its colleagues to take this into account when formulating the union's economic security strategies. the relevant new legislation should be subject to the preparation of competence studies. proposals should be in line with wto rules and respect the competence of member states. i ask the commission to pursue a more proactive, smarter and business-friendly trade policy in the future. he never leaves the hard cases at the end of the cycle. this commission has a poor certificate, and has not been able to draw as much out of the free trade opportunities as it could have.
mr president, commissioner, we all agree that reform is needed to make the wto much more functional. to this end, it is essential that the dispute settlement body is fully operational and effective again. a clear example of the dysfunction of this organisation is the dispute between the united states and spain over tariffs on spanish black olives. although the wto has voted in favour of spain in 2021, the united states has not changed its behaviour and continues to seriously damage the sector. the question remains open at the wto. we have important challenges ahead of us and the wto has a key role to play. i would like to highlight another subject which we must keep in mind at the next conference: the negotiations on fisheries subsidies. in this regard, i would like to reiterate the need to protect and defend the sustainable subsidies granted to european union operators under union legislation and, in particular, the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements between the european union and the acp countries. under no circumstances should these agreements be considered as subsidies to the european union fleet. these agreements are the most transparent and mutually beneficial fisheries agreements in the world. they have proven to be positive and profitable for both the eu fleets, consumers and third countries, and for the management of fisheries resources. and we must not forget that if the eu fleet leaves these waters, they will be replaced by other fleets that have no regard for social or environmental sustainability.
mr president, commissioner, you have said it, mr jörgen has said it, mr bernd has said it: in such a complex and turbulent geopolitical context, it is necessary to strive more than ever to strengthen multilateralism and international organizations, including the wto. many thought she was dead, but she responded two years ago successfully to the two major crises: the pandemic and putin's invasion of ukraine, ensuring access to vaccines with the liberalization of patents, on the one hand, and ensuring supply chain and food security, on the other. it is also developing a key role for the sustainability of the seas through the fisheries subsidy agreement. the next step is to proceed with the outstanding institutional reform, by streamlining the decision-making system and establishing a binding conflict resolution mechanism. we must promote sustainable trade that integrates the gender dimension and development of all countries, and especially the most vulnerable, by completing the doha agenda. finally, it is essential to give it a genuine parliamentary dimension. in abu dhabi we have a lot of work ahead of us.
the commissioner, president-in-office, has not yet been able to find a solution to the problem. we had a fairly successful mc12, but the dutch saying one swallow does not make the spring has not yet brought the world trade organization to its destination. i know that there is a lot of reference to reforms of the internal system, but i think we need fundamental reforms. let me give you two examples: 1) the attention to the needs and voice of developing countries in the world trade organization is under-estimated today and should be better. what happened during the pandemic with the trips and intellectual property rights debate was not good. so we need to make another effort to make progress. 2) a second fundamental reform is, of course, the link between climate and trade: not just a few words and a fine statement here and there, but a fundamental reform of the world trade organization system to make sure we really put climate on the agenda.
mr president, madam commissioner, the war that vladimir putin started two years ago has killed hundreds of thousands of people. the consequences are terrible beyond the conflict zone. the neoliberal agricultural policies of the wto, which have been in place since the mid-1990s, are a failure. they have not helped to reduce the number of hungry people in the world. the promise of food security based on global trade in agricultural products and dominated by powerful multinationals is not working. let us have the courage to acknowledge it. the european union, by increasing the number of bilateral trade agreements, is undermining the multilateral system it has helped to establish. i am not against trade, but i think the wto is out of breath. the time has come to build europe's food sovereignty, as proposed by via campesina in 1996. we must let other parts of the world do the same thing if they want to, and even help them. europe must arrive in abu dhabi with another proposal for world trade regulation, based not on competition but on solidarity and respect for human rights and environmental law.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for a sovereign, innovative and inspired europe, we need alert children, enlightened students. the role of teachers is obviously crucial, and we need to better recognize them, work better for them and with them. it's a bad time. we are going through a vocational crisis, and there is a shortage of teachers everywhere, in all european countries. to remedy this, teachers are needed to be trained, supported, and properly paid. if education policies are state policy, we can work at european level. for four years we have been talking about the european education area for common standards of education. let's do it now! we want to digitize all schools, everywhere, in all the most remote regions. let's do it now! we must also work at european level on guidelines to create new opportunities for teachers. i think in particular of the teacher academies under erasmus+ to share the best in our different countries and to inspire each other. finally, education must be given priority. it is not an option, but an obligation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how far will you go in your march towards federalism after the european pact on immigration and asylum, the sovereignty of european law and the verhofstadt report, or now the verheyen report and its accompanying autocritical, reeducational and historical revision? in breach of the treaties, the european union intends to impose a narrative of repentance on europe's dark hours. but europe is not built on crime. it is the story of artistic masterpieces, pioneers of industry and science, and of a founding diplomacy of the international order. to learn its history as a young european is to admit this genius, that of dante, goethe and voltaire. renan defined the nation as a daily plebiscite, a soul, a spiritual principle. you prefer self-flagellation to this concept and take away all moral conscience from the people. but french students will never accept being taught, "our ancestors are bastards".
mr president, i have repeatedly said throughout my term that the future of europe is the future of today's youth. in order to enable our young people to take full part in the european project, teachers have a decisive role to play. education is the key to supporting the future of our young europeans. more than ever, we must invest in the education of our young people, build with them the european citizenship of tomorrow and strengthen their sense of belonging to ensure the development and sustainability of our european project. teachers are the hussars of our democracies, the hussars of our europe, the vectors of the emancipation of our youth. but that is not all. we must justify this ambition by concrete actions, giving them the right place in our social projects and giving them the full means to carry out these major missions for the future of our youth. too often, their role and role are underestimated and their working conditions continue to deteriorate. yet despite these obstacles, our teachers remain committed to their mission, as they have been during the pandemic, characterized by creativity and hard work. together, let us commit to investing heavily in the education of our youth, finally enabling our teachers to fulfil their mission in decent, attractive and ambitious conditions. he's also a teacher telling you that today.
on behalf of the id group. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has been the mandate of the von der leyen presidency for the moral slip and, as you know, when the moral slip, public debts fall. some here tell me that i'm talking too much about the 71 billion euro pfizer-biontech vaccine contracts, that i'm talking too much about hidden text messages, hidden prices and, today, wasted doses. but it is your parties that have decided not to invite the president to speak before this parliament. it is your parties that have decided not to condemn these behaviours and not to remove the badges of pfizer lobbyists, despite the refusal of its ceo to testify on the biggest contract in the history of the european union. as a result, officials from the brussels commission do not make publicly available reports of meetings they have with tobacco industry representatives in davos or brussels. i am not saying that, but the european ombudsman. in its decision of 19 december, it specifically appointed the directors of the internal market, who were to be headed by mr breton, and an associate of mr barnier. i quote: the commission did not keep a minutes of all the meetings held in 2020 and 2021. the ombudsman therefore wonders how the commission can assure the public that its interactions with tobacco lobbyists do not undermine public health policies [...] if the minutes do not exist. the in the face of these lobbies and temptations, it is not holiness that we are asking for, but europe is not destined to become a banana republic of compulsory law.
on behalf of the band the left. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is now joining the work of the parliamentary working party on tobacco, which i have been co-chairing with the late mrs michèle rivasi and whose conclusions i am announcing today will be presented in a white paper on the week of 26 february. in the case of dentsu tracking/jan hoffmann, which refers to the conflict of interest that is affecting the development of the european system for tracing tobacco products, several problems arise. first, the choice of provider, dentsu tracking, by the european commission. the european traceability system is not in compliance with the who protocol, which was ratified by the european union in 2016. the directive explicitly requires that this traceability system be entrusted to an independent actor and free from any proximity to the tobacco industry. however, this is not the case for dentsu tracking, which uses the codentify system, conceptualized by the philip morris company itself. in addition, the recruitment by dentsu tracking of a dg sante official, jan hoffmann, highlights the collusion between the commission and this powerful tobacco industry. the fact that this company was designated as a partner without a call for tenders or a public procedure and then renewed in december last year under the same terms is a real camouflage for transparency and accountability in the institutions. i am very concerned about the commission's proposal to amend the directive on the protection of the environment and the environment. i am not sure if it is possible to make a decision on the commission's proposal. this is a scandal in a scandal. i have a few questions. why does the commission allow a mere official, filip borkowski, to claim in an article published in december 2023 that the european system is in compliance with the who protocol when it has been proven that this information is false? in fact, recalling that he was the head of mr hoffmann, what role did mr borkowski play in the scandal involving dentsu tracking and the commission? why was he removed from dg sante and demoted right after the revelations of this scandal? why is the commission continuing to block the revisions to the two 2011 and 2014 directives on tobacco products, which would allow the implementation of the who protocol? so, the conflict of interest tree, does it not finally hide the corruption of the forest? (that's a question.) and if that is not the case, let us bring this to the full light and finally act for legislation that is at the risk of our citizens. because this is also about public health, and i think we need to do something.
