on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, this is yet another historic moment for the eu. we are once again demonstrating the eu’s commitment to further reduce emissions into the atmosphere by completely phasing out hfcs by 2050. in that way, we are contributing to our efforts towards limiting the global temperature increase. for example, banning certain types of fluorinated gases in heat pumps as of 2032 alone will reduce the global temperature by 0.1°c. with this agreement, we are also putting into practice the repowereu goals for an energy-efficient and independent eu that leads the world in the clean energy transition. at the same time, we manage to do it in an innovation-friendly way by giving a clear direction to our industries. we reward innovation. we decarbonise, we don’t deindustrialise. we work with the budget, not against it, and we do it safely. and we also do it by making sure that we have enough trained and certified personnel who carry out activities involving fluorinated greenhouse gases. thank you once again to the rapporteur, bas eickhout, and all the other shadows for the very positive outcome. and thank you to my colleague jessica for the good work on the ozone-depleting substances file. and let us vote in favour of the agreement and make this legislation a reality.
the european labour authority is another eu anti-working force that defends flexibility, mobility and the application of eu rules to the benefit of individuals and businesses. it is the standard for the transformation of the labour inspectorate into a supposedly independent authority under the hajdak law. the commission has therefore decided to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a manner that is consistent with the objectives of the programme. in 2023, 135 workers did not return home from the horrors of the day. in 2024, he accidentally hit a pedestrian on cosco's docks. the results of the eu strategy implemented by nda, syriza, pasok and the etuc are: labour intensification, up to 13 hours a day, inadequate measures to protect workers for the benefit of capitalist profitability and reduction of labour costs. in this dangerous situation, the labour movement is confronted with its struggle, demanding collective agreements with the necessary protective measures, health and safety committees, full coverage of workers from occupational hazards under the responsibility of the state and the burden of capital on the state's staff labour inspection bodies.
mr president, 100 days have passed since 7 october, when unspeakable atrocities were committed by the terrorist organisation hamas against innocent israeli civilians. but as our attention moves today to the risks of regional escalation and broader conflict in the region, we risk forgetting the plight of the victims, forgetting the need for accountability and justice. we must not let this happen. we must continue to press for answers that the victims and their families deserve. the full extent, ladies and gentlemen, of the horrors of 7 october are not yet known. at a recent hearing, though, of the un human rights council, independent experts were very clear about the scale and severity of the attacks, particularly those of a sexual nature. in their statement, they noted that ‘the growing body of evidence about reported sexual violence is particularly harrowing, with female bodies found with their clothing pulled up to their waist, with torn or stained underwear with blood.’ we must investigate. we must find answers. we must understand the full extent of these crimes, because it appears that sexual violence was not the act of rogue soldiers, but a deliberate tactic of war. i hope that you will join me to help make the survivors’ stories, these women’s stories, known, to hold those guilty accountable and to bring justice for the victims and their families.
on behalf of the epp group. the report on the relations between the european union and india is the second on this subject in the current term of office of the european parliament. it is a balanced report, with reference to all the deficiencies observed in respect for human rights, the social integration of minorities, pluralism and the rule of law. however, progress has been made in these areas, but the right result has not been achieved, and the report is moving in this direction, with the aim of highlighting the shortcomings and calling on india to comply with the objectives it has set. the commission also considers that the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union. finally, there is a significant reference to the alarming situation in kashmir and to india's attitude towards the war in ukraine. it is true that india is an important partner, a country with strong economic growth, a member of the g5 and that strengthening the bonds of friendship and cooperation in all fields is to the benefit of europe and itself. i, as the shadow rapporteur of the european people's party, have tabled several amendments to this effect, in order to highlight the various areas where further cooperation with the european union is needed, as well as the alignment with our principles and values. in particular, i will table amendments concerning the european union-india strategic relationship, strengthening maritime security and counter-terrorism policy, the importance of maintaining peace and security and stability in the indo-pacific region, the need to recognise christian, muslim and other minorities, freedom of expression and freedom of the media, the need to protect the rule of law and the need for india-eu cooperation in setting technical standards and responsible use of artificial intelligence. i would also like to point out that for the first time in 40 years the prime minister of india visited greece and we had a good cooperation. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs alametsä, for her excellent work in the preparation of the report. thank you very much for your productive cooperation.
the commissioner has said that the commission is not going to be able to take any further action to prevent the spread of the virus. in a rapidly evolving environment, this strategic partnership concerns not only trade and geopolitics but also the future of the world's two largest democracies in the coming decades. the commission has also proposed a new framework for the development of the european community's internal market, which will be implemented in the coming years. at the same time, we are strengthening our presence with the 2023 memorandum of cooperation for an economic route for the transport of energy and data products, by sea and rail, from india to the middle east and europe. finally, the greek government has succeeded in highlighting our country as an investment opportunity for india towards europe, focusing its interest in infrastructure and in particular on the implementation of the new heraklion international airport in crete, greece's second busiest airport, while there is also a strong investment interest in kalamata airport. it is an opportunity for member states with already excellent trade relations to act as a bridge of cooperation and trust between the european union and india.
- madam president, please. 2023 could have been a revolutionary year for animal welfare in europe. instead, millions of animals such as pigs and chickens continue to suffer. they are locked in tiny cages where they can barely move. in 2020, the european citizens' initiative end the cage age was successfully validated. 1.4 million citizens demanded an end to cage-breeding and a real change in animal husbandry. the 2021 resolution was supported by a large majority in this house. the commission promised to submit a proposal for the phasing out of cages by the end of 2023. and now we have january 2024, and it's clear that there's nothing coming. the demands of 1.4 million people remain unanswered. i therefore welcome the fact that the european ombudsman has launched an investigation to investigate the reasons for the commission's failure to do so. this is about more than animal welfare. it is about the credibility of the eu institutions and the right of european citizens to speak.
the report highlights the european ombudsman's complaints about the secret bourla and von der leyen agreements. it is time to admit that the european union, with its mandatory and fascist vaccination, has deceived european citizens. here in the european parliament, the pfizer spokeswoman told us that they didn't know if the vaccines were effective. with the final end of the von der leyen commission we demand that the distribution of billions of euros by european taxpayers into inadequate and harmful vaccines be investigated, much of which has either been exhausted or given away as a gift to third countries to enrich pharmaceutical companies. the people responsible for the biggest health and economic scandal in the history of the european union must be held accountable to justice.
mr president, you're suddenly concerned about the rise of the far right. but the bourgeois parties with their anti-people politics have been its sponsors over time. in the macron-le pen dilemma, the macron-favorite rally has thrown off le pen's percentages. now they're voting together on abortion laws to the detriment of immigrants. isn't the far right ruling, for example, in italy? he doesn't support the government in sweden? the european union has not integrated the identification of fascism and communism? all sorts of anti-communist miseries? it calls for prosecutions, it outlaws communist parties, while convicted nazi criminals, like golden dawn, are still meps. together with the far-right bourgeois parties supported israel's genocide against the palestinians. fascist forces, like the azovists in ukraine. the far right is the offspring of the capitalist exploitative system you defend. fighting fascism means fighting against the capitalism that begets it. that is why it wants a stronger kke, a stronger, stronger workers' popular movement, against delusions, false expectations, in the struggle for the modern needs and rights of the people.
mr president, i would like to thank the members of parliament very much for supporting the left's proposal to discuss norway's decision to allow deep water mining. this is a very wrong decision, since the whole world has agreed to a moratorium until the scientific community recognizes what is in the deep waters, and we have reached the historic agreement to protect biodiversity in international waters, in waters beyond jurisdiction, this is a wrong decision that our colleagues in norway should reconsider. right now we don't even know what's under the ground, we don't know what life is, and that's going to pave the way for the destruction of the last free space on our planet.
i would like to say that the commissioner is not here today, and that he is not here today. in recent years hate speech and hate crimes have increased alarmingly across europe, particularly on the internet and social media, threatening vulnerable groups, women, persons with disabilities, minorities and particularly lwtf. since 2022 we have repeatedly asked the european parliament and the council to immediately extend the list of european union crimes to include hate speech and hate crimes. to establish minimum rules for the definition of these criminal offences and the necessary penalties, as the commission has proposed for two years. only then will we ensure that hatred is criminalized in the same way everywhere in europe. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. we therefore call on the council to proceed immediately to criminalize hate speech and hate crimes.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, as regards the rule of law in greece, it would not be too much to say that greece has become a european colombia, not because we produce good coffee or cocoa, but because the greek mafia is in charge, to the point of killing kalashnikov in central athens. the report also shows that the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the reporting of the there is, of course, no polygamy in the media. the systemic means are controlled by businessmen who benefit and benefit from the government and usually they also run the biggest football teams by accident. on the other hand, the independent authorities who have to control this landscape are not independent. characteristically, the esp, while responsible for the multilingualism in the media, does not do the least. all he does is punish and fine those who criticize the government. it should be noted that in the report of this independent authority, greek solusi appears to have zero presence in the long-distance channels or in the channels of identification with the government. the new republic, on the other hand, has exceeded its target by a much higher percentage, reaching 62% for 2020 and 2021. finally, polling companies play a pivotal role in the government's propaganda operation, scaling up the percentages of parties they annoy in their cooked surveys. it is therefore funny to talk about the rule of law in greece.
on behalf of the left. i would like to say that the commissioner has not yet made a decision on the matter. a few days before the election, the authorities announce the arrest of two suspects in the murder of the journalist and since then no one has been heard from on the front. second, the greek watergate, predatorgate. 15.500 persons, including top politicians and meps. one of them is here, mr. cursus. with no justification and complete lack of feasibility, the greek intelligence agency was used by prime minister kyriakos mitsotakis. his nephew, mr. demetrius, director and protagonist of the scandal. 107 positions in the field of press freedom independence, with opaque lists of selective financing and industry mud against journalists and media such as documento, the editors' journal and others. the crime of the tebos. as mrs sophia in 't veld rightly said, to whom i am very grateful on behalf of all, the 57 families of the dead and 70 of the wounded and maimed will never hear the responsible minister give a voice to the greek judiciary by a decision of the governmental majority. that is the problem in greece. this one has a name, mitsotakis.
i am very embarrassed and deeply saddened that greece is once again the subject of a negative debate in the european parliament. unfortunately, however, the new republic's government continues to push the boundaries of the rule of law and from surveillance to interventions by independent authorities, human rights violations, if all this were to happen in a candidate country, we would have frozen the process of integration. the surveillance scandal, which has been under judicial investigation for 17 months and no criminal prosecutions have yet been carried out, reveals the troubled functioning of the judiciary as well as the uncontrolled functioning of the epp under the executive branch. the most important obstacles to any government majority in a democracy, justice, independent authorities and parliamentary control are systematically weakened by governmental interventions. the combination of these three elements constitutes a dystopian institutional reality regarding the decline of the rule of law and the quality of democracy in the country where it was born. let us therefore see our resolution in february as an opportunity for greece to rise to the level of european achievements and turn its course towards a southern banana. i'm not sure what you're saying about your press reports.
madam president, this is the sixth time that we have discussed the rule of law in greece here in the house, when it has been answered in detail on all the issues, when we have given answers from us, from the greek government before the commission, from the greek prime minister himself in this room and when no new evidence has emerged. so there are times when you have to say things by their name. the first five times we discussed this issue, the reason was that we had elections in greece and kyriakos mitsotakis won overwhelmingly in four electoral divisions and, despite the problems of citizens, the new republic maintains a 20 percentage points lead in the polls. so let's say things through their names and today in today's sixth debate, we have a european election in june. that's the point. and some in this room are obsessively insisting on discrediting greece for political gain. they have a party or personal agenda and are obviously disturbed by the leadership profile of kyriakos mitsotakis in greece and europe. even obsessions, though, have an expiration date. the greek people know the truth about the rule of law and freedom of the press. the greek people will again respond to the obsession with defaming greece with political intention on 9 june, the day of the european elections in greece. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card)
blue-card answer. – madam president, i will choose to ignore the dismissive and insulting undertone of your last comment, ms in ‘t veld. and yes, i can imagine, because i look at one in the mirror every day when i wake up and i care about truth and european values, and i care about my country and its reputation. and i can imagine, because i see it happening in this chamber, that there are there is a minority in here, and people with their own agendas who are talking about my country as if it’s not a democracy, but an autocracy. and that simply is not true. and every time in this chamber, we have answered everything about the murder of mr karaivaz, which is being investigated, and there have been arrests about ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, we are, therefore, on the same stage. a poorly-played play, with a predictable script and directed by the same sad group of meps. a group that cannot digest that greece has a government with fresh popular mandate. a government that every day, through its actions, restores the country's credibility and makes it a pillar of stability in a troubled neighborhood, the southeastern mediterranean. and a government that has tightened its legislation by banning the use of surveillance software and reformed the control of security services. with a traditional commitment to upholding european values and the rule of law and with full respect for institutional barriers, as well as for freedom of the press. so i suggest you change your work, because your viewers have turned their backs.
mrs president, millions of households across europe are struggling to cope with the constant rise in living costs and energy prices. women face more challenges and higher levels of poverty than men. 20 million more women than men live below the poverty line in the european union. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the protection of workers' rights. we must take urgent action to tackle poverty and inequality. access to energy should be considered a right. to address structural income inequalities and to integrate the gender dimension into all european union activities. ensure affordable public benefit services and food for low-income households and, finally, strengthen access programmes to affordable and energy-efficient housing and ensure equal access to health and care services.
mr president, dear colleagues, yesterday here we debated about the decision of norway to drill the deep sea in the arctic, and we asked for a moratorium. if that doesn’t happen, they drill. do you know what they will find? they will find plastic. there’s so much plastic. ska calculated there is 100 billion tonnes every year. there is a great plastic garbage patch – plastic island –in the pacific ocean, which is three times the size of france. and there are five of these islands, and we produce more and more plastic. so dear commissioner sinkevičius, when this mandate began, we talked about a blue deal. and you’ve done a great job. you pushed forward the ocean agreement at the biodiversity cop15 kunming-montreal. you reached an agreement on the beyond national jurisdiction agreement (high seas treaty). i think it is time to be serious about our zero pollution commitment on the green deal, talk about the next mandate and realise that we must stop the plastic addiction. plastics are fossil fuels, and the people of galicia are suffering from another oil spill, like grace said, 20 years later. we must deal with that and realise that transitioning away from fossil fuels, as we discussed in cop 28, includes getting away from plastics.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the deeply precarious situation in which a large part of the fisheries sector is present with the broadest expression in the small fisheries sector is not disconnected, on the contrary, from the common fisheries policy, which is disconnected from reality, which disregards the specific, diverse and complex situation of national fisheries, promotes greater centralization and management of the operation, promotes the liberalization and dismantling of public regulatory instruments, and lacks support, particularly for small-scale fishing. a thorough reform of the common fisheries policy should be based on close and decentralised management involving fishermen in solutions and implementation. specific measures to modernise and promote the fisheries sector in each country, in particular small-scale, coastal and artisanal fishing, with a view to ensuring its socioeconomic viability, in the context of the sovereignty of the member states over their territory and resources. because there is no fishery without fishermen, commissioner, which the commission sometimes seems to ignore. those who live and work in this sector expect concrete and immediate measures to ensure its continuity.
mr president, the world population is expected to reach 10 billion by 2050, and feeding such a population is one of the major global challenges of this time. the un sustainable development goals, which include the eradication of hunger, to ensure food security by 2030 are likely to be extended to 2050 as this goal is missed. to achieve these objectives, we must radically change our habits of production, consumption and access to food. the practice of sustainable fishing is essential if we are to meet the future food needs of the planet and we must therefore take all possible steps to ensure the energy transition of the european union's fisheries and aquaculture sector, fully applying the ecosystem-based approach. it is also essential to place greater emphasis on the social dimension and on improving working conditions on board ships. the common fisheries policy therefore needs to be reformed and adapted more than ever, as the common agricultural policy should be, and finally be fully in line with the social and environmental requirements of our time.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the common fisheries policy aims to support fishing communities, sustain fishing stocks, protect the environment and ensure fair distribution of opportunities across the eu. the common fisheries policy is fair for some, but not for all: 85% of the fish that’s taken out of irish waters is taken by countries other than ireland, with ireland getting 15%. when it comes to reciprocal arrangements with third countries, they are worth about 60 million to third countries, but ireland gets approximately 1 million in return. when it comes to processing those fish, many of the european fish go to iceland and the faroe islands to be processed there, losing the opportunities of the multiplier effect in the local economy in ireland. and finally, this has all been compounded by brexit: 40% of the value of fish transfers to the uk came from ireland; 15% of irish quota was lost to the uk. the common fisheries policy in many ways serves unsustainable fishing by norway, iceland and the faroe islands at the expense of countries like ireland. it’s a common fisheries policy for countries outside the eu and not for some countries within the eu, and we need to ensure that it’s much more sustainable, and we have to make sure that the opportunities that are there are for european fishermen in particular.
mr president, i welcome the guidance of this report, which underlines the contribution of the cfp and advocates improving its socioeconomic and environmental content. to focus our contributions on further improving the management of fish stocks by hand and not against those who live off them: that is the first step. the ppc's commitment to the diversity of the sector, to integrating it into the definition of artisanal fishing and to allowing the renewal of its fleet is key to decarbonisation, to improving the safety and conditions of workers in the sector and to making it more attractive and generational renewal. we agreed with the sector to review non-compliance aspects of the current ppc, such as the landing obligation. paper can take it all and reality can't. a fisheries commissioner could correct these errors by bringing community institutions closer to the sector, by integrating the sea sharply into the farm-to-table strategy and by promoting rules that prevent plant products from being labelled as what they will never be: fish. in short, these are suggestions to correct, where appropriate, malfunctions in the current common fisheries policy.
i support this report because it brings back the much needed balance between the three main pillars of the common fisheries policy, namely food supply, protection of fish stocks and the socioeconomic needs of fishermen. the report, in particular, calls for greater respect for local authorities on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity and, in this context, proposed an amendment to the need to open the outdated mediterranean regulation, which was adopted in 2006 and as such represents a barrier, particularly to small-scale coastal fisheries which account for 85% of the european mediterranean fleet, and even more so in croatia. the regulation has imposed the same restrictions on small-scale coastal fishing as on industrial fishing, and that's not good because there are marine organisms that can only be caught by small-scale coastal fishing, and now that they're not, when those organisms are not caught, small fishermen are moving to those species that are caught by industrial fishing, most of which are already overused anyway. i'm calling on you to support this amendment. we must not enslave formalism, but we must show the courage to change documents that have not been effective in practice.
mr president, yes, we are at a crucial juncture for the future of our artisanal fishing in the face of the rise in mass imports and european regulations. but let us not be told about the green pact, inspired by globalist ngos that prohibit our fishermen from working and living off their work here at home. at the same time, the european union, through fisheries agreements with third countries such as mauritania or senegal, allows financial institutions to plunder their resources and send entire populations to emigrate for survival. for if we are to talk about artisanal fishing and marine resources, we must also talk about the economy and food sovereignty, here and elsewhere. and if we are to talk about future prospects, we must bear in mind that these small friendship arrangements, these "deals" that seem juicy to you, lead over time to catastrophic changes that lead to chaos on the other side of the world, but that inevitably come back to us like the flap of a butterfly's wings.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr gabriel mato on his excellent work on this report. we need a serious and modern reform of the ccp, as this report thus shows. we must therefore have a reform that takes into account economic and social conditions in a balanced way and not just a predominantly environmentalist view. i therefore insist, as i have done for many years in this part of my term of office, that this is not just an opinion, commissioner, but a clear conviction that we must enable and support with funding the urgent renewal of the fishing fleet, especially in the outermost regions. regions such as the azores and madeira in portugal are struggling to combat the obsolescence of their fishing fleets, which not only jeopardize their livelihoods but, as you know, have a negative impact on the environment. i therefore urge once again, commissioner, that it is not too late to act decisively to support the fishing industry, our fishermen and the future of our seas.
mr president, the greek government, our report expressly asks for this. member states shall step up efforts to combat illegal, unregulated and uncontrolled fishing and ensure that european fishery consumption does not support illegal fishing. regulation 1005/2008 is a european tool to block imports of fish caught illegally in the aegean from turkey. so far with the turkish fishermen roaming the aegean without borders and always with the support of the turkish harbor attacking the greek fishermen! i would also like to ask the commission to stress that our report calls for safety conditions on european fishing vessels, as there are shortcomings. this does not have to be done at extra cost, but at a cost. the less money is directed to the turkish port and the turkish budget in general, the greater security for greek and all european fisheries.
madam president, the council is full of unpopular decisions at the expense of the farmers, workers, young people who are suffering from your strategy. like the cap, which takes farmers to the streets for survival. for the people there is not a penny left, but there is 50 billion left, oil in the fires of the imperialist war in ukraine. we condemn the unacceptable request of the government of the new republic, which has also supported syriza-pasok, to send greece frigates to the red sea as part of the euro-atlantic projects and to coordinate european operations in the heat of war. it is a dangerous engagement, while the us and britain are bombing yemen, syria and iraq, the european union supports the genocide of the palestinian people by occupying israel and is participating in the escalation with a risk of more general arson. this is the european union. it distributes generous aid to groups, defends its interests through war operations and to the people poverty, inequality, unemployment, war, refugees. the people must not accept the new eu middle ages. the european union, the capitalist and bourgeois parties, are fighting their own modern needs with a stronger kke.
mr president, mr commissioner, just a few weeks ago at cop28, the european union and, through it, the 27 member states committed themselves to the world and the new generation to the elimination of fossil fuels. at union level, we have done our duty with the climate law which the independent scientific committee wisely provided for, calling us today to set a target of reducing emissions by at least 90% by 2040 compared with 1990. some member states, including greece, have not appointed independent scientific committees. but without a passion for science, we cannot achieve our climate goals, have policies for a just social transition, or seize economic opportunity. a few member states, including greece, unfortunately, are even going into new hydrocarbon mining, which is not only immoral but also, at least in terms of investment, foolish, especially in view of the 2040 targets. we must therefore ensure that the member states follow and that we do not lose sight of our duty. let us courageously embrace the challenge we face to open up a sustainable future for future generations.
blue-card question. – mr terheş, thank you for accepting the blue card. i understand you have studied theology. i would be very much interested in hearing your views on the pope’s laudato si’ encyclical.
on behalf of the epp group. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the protection of workers' rights. it is something we have asked for several times and more recently, last june. training is indeed an important tool for the integration of young people, their entry into the labour market and the acquisition of skills necessary for the labour market. no one disagrees with that. we must, however, ensure the quality of these jobs through a common binding quality assurance framework. we must establish the necessary incentives for employers to offer such jobs, with a particular focus on very small, small and mediumsized enterprises, but also to direct all our efforts using european funds so that young people from remote areas, islands or economically disadvantaged areas have access to quality training and with an emphasis on accessibility and reasonable accommodation for disabled people, as well as cross-border mobility. but, comrades, we must not close our eyes. the commissioner also said that some firms are abusing this institution by effectively abolishing the jobs of young people, so that young people are caught up in a never-ending series of practical exercises that crush their dreams and expectations. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the implementation of the programme.
mr president, mr commissioner, we all recognize undoubtedly the importance of education for the future and for the cohesion of societies. however, there are serious shortcomings throughout europe. the average age of teachers is constantly increasing and the emergence of artificial intelligence has changed and will change the data of education much more. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the situation in the member states. each year, gaps in school fixed educational needs are filled by substitute teachers who are forced to operate as labour and economic hostages. but we are now called upon to draw up a new european strategic plan which will raise the social, professional and wage performance of teachers, restore their standing and invest in supporting and continuing training of teachers so that the teaching profession can be attractive again to new teachers.
mr president, high-quality education is one of the biggest bets for the coming years and teachers and professors are an integral part of the educational process. they educate children and young people, the future of our countries. we were trained once. they carry useful skills, values, but also life examples, like my teacher, johanna makri, who taught me to pursue my dreams. but they also play a pivotal role in tackling bullying and other incidents of violence in schools, and, colleagues, unfortunately in many member states the working conditions of teachers are not the right ones. they have to deal with psychological stress, a lot of paperwork and in some cases poor infrastructure, while at the same time their average age increases, which means they will be replenished by new teachers in the future. we must unleash their power and free them from these burdens. we must give them the opportunity and the tools to do their job, but also do everything to keep this job attractive for future generations. with a good salary, clear career prospects and professional development and, above all, practical recognition of their invaluable work.
