the honourable president, the president of the government, colleagues and colleagues. the belgian presidency concludes the institutional cycle of europe ahead of the european elections at a crucial moment for our continent and for the lives of europeans. we are faced with the formalization of the historic agreement on migration and asylum, which ultimately takes a responsible, civilized and healthy approach to one of europe's key challenges. if we want to remain the best place to live in the world, europe must take its investment in security, defence and competitiveness more seriously. we need a serious review of the multi-year financial framework, not just because of the importance of helping ukraine. do not neglect, too, our engagement with bosnia and herzegovina and our immediate neighbors in south-east europe. the european elections are coming closer and closer, which will determine the direction of europe in turbulent times that are unquestionably ahead. in this context, i wish the belgian presidency success and good luck in the six months ahead.
mr. chairman, i was convinced that this legislation would finally put an end to the practice of embedded defects. however, rather than a complete ban on the placing on the market of products with built-in defects, this law considers unfair business practice to be merely market communication related to goods and explicitly states that the production of goods and their placing on the market do not constitute market communication. in other words, this bill will not prevent the fact that we have products with built-in defects on the shelves of stores, as colleague pelletier said, among others. fortunately, we have another regulation, the eco-design regulation, which was agreed to in december and which stipulates that eco-design requirements will ensure that products are not outdated. in addition to the above, the european parliament in its report gives the negotiating team a clear mandate to amend the unfair business practices directive by this act in order to prohibit different product qualities altogether. unfortunately, that has not been done either, so absolutely, in terms of consumer rights, there is still a lot of room for improvement.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. first of all, we must say to the previous colleague: first of all, we express our appreciation for ngos in our report. i myself volunteer in dozens of ngos and engage in various social and cultural activities. so this is not about the question of appreciation, but this is about the question: how do we deal with transparency rules in principle, and what problems have arisen? i am not sure if you really identify all of them or most of them. if i see every year that, for example, islamic organizations, terrorist organizations and their sub-ngos are constantly receiving money because they are hiding under beautiful titles that give the impression that they are for the right and for european values, then it is simply and simply necessary to introduce better controls. secondly, i have doubts that the european commission will always distribute the funds fairly. in the member states, they are often smaller or more diverse organisations. the european commission itself often has organizations it builds with, supports with, and even lobbies on. i think that is quite difficult when, for example, lobbying policy makers is explicitly involved in some political objective, where even the commission decides against it. i think that is a rather problematic matter when such a direct political decision is taken. in this sense, i simply ask that we take transparency seriously, that we also want to know who is funding certain ngos. and third, we actually use it in the edes system. there's no one on the edes list. that's zero so far. i would also like to know, commissioner, definitively how much money the ngo no peace without justice has actually spent. that's 4.6 million. i haven't gotten an answer to this day where the money went.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, non-governmental organizations, volunteers, civil society associations are an indispensable asset, the best ally of the european project. witnesses and guards of the fundamental values of the union, who are involved in cooperation with the institutions but also by intervening where they do not. the person and his fundamental rights were for us, socialists and democrats, the compass to follow in working on this resolution on transparency and accountability of eu budget-funded ngos. we have said yes to transparency and to more effective monitoring of the use of european financial resources, but we have required that this principle applies equally to all beneficiaries, including economic operators. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. we have rejected the rapporteur's proposals for an unmotivated and naive accusative footprint against ngos, painting an emergency picture that has no evidence of fact. the vote in the committee on budgetary control gave us the right and there was a broad convergence with colleagues from other political groups, for which i am grateful for the cooperation. i am confident that this house will confirm this direction by rejecting tomorrow's vote the amendments which, in my view, are worsening and which again insist on alleged conflicts of interest, alleged damage to the european economy and even the demand for a law on ngos which is not really felt to be needed. colleagues, throwing a witch hunt and blowing the fires of discredit is not acceptable. we have epochal challenges ahead of us and we must put europe in the best position to face them. i think about marginalization, gender-based violence, the elderly, the prisons, the mental health drama, and still the many young people on the front lines of saving lives at sea who remind us of the importance of remaining human. so let's move on, and i conclude, with more transparency and responsibility but by staying with those who are committed every day to the common good.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, is it necessary to strengthen control of the funds distributed by the commission? should respect for our fundamental values be a criterion for allocating european funds? yes, it is obvious, but it is not always true. our citizens, and they are right, are demanding more transparency and traceability of funds. recently, in july 2023, the commission decided to suspend erasmus+ funding for the turkish association yavuz sultan selim, which has been found to be apologizing for terrorism, including the bataclan bombing in paris. the withdrawal is commendable, but it shows that control must be strengthened both upstream and downstream, in monitoring the funds to the last beneficiary. this requires means of investigation and that is what we are asking for in this report. can this essential struggle be left in the hands of conservatives who are not afraid to use it to stigmatize ngos and limit public freedoms? this is what we have opposed by rejecting a regulation specifically aimed at ngos. these new requirements must apply to all beneficiaries of the european funds. ngos, this text does not limit your freedom of action. on the contrary, in this text we provide for safeguard clauses to protect ngos operating in states violating the rule of law and freedoms. what is given to ngos that do not respect our values of emancipation is mechanically denied to those that would have deserved our support. how could conservative parties, violating the values of the rule of law on a daily basis, be the guarantors of this fidelity to the european ideal? it is the role of the progressive, democratic and republican forces to ensure that the funds are used in accordance with our values of emancipation.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i am not going to say anything. - what? your honor! i would prefer that this note be addressed to my speaker. the german parliamentarian should take care of his internal affairs outside this chamber. we're talking about european solutions, not disputes within germany. this debate is necessary. i think we have to be straightforward about the fact that some ngos have been in the past and can be exploited by foreign states. i'm talking specifically about russia. of course, you shouldn't throw a baby out with a bath. we need to trust ngos, we need to trust the third sector. in my opinion, however, it should not be overlooked that this could be an instrument of russian or other foreign influence. of course, and i say this as the coordinator of my ecr group in the budget control committee, we must look very carefully at the question of the proper use of these funds in order to avoid corruption.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, the original report was simply a constant attack on all ngos, blamed for everything, including qatargate, and asked to provide more info than any other private company applying for eu funds. the original report also requested a certification body only for ngos – an ngo regulation – but none for other beneficiaries, and even proposed to establish a blacklist against ngos, and – guess what? – only ngos. the good news, i suppose, is these most problematic points mentioned are no longer part of the final report, but i still consider it a soft attack on the ngos. there are positives: the report now includes a differentiation between public transparency and information to discharge authorities, and avoids most of the witch-hunt approach present in the report against ngos. the vital role played by ngos and the need to fully respect civil society organisation, regardless of their field of actions and their structure, is now part of the report. you can’t pick and choose. just because you mightn’t like someone, where they’re coming from, you can’t say, ‘take away their money’. protection and support is an underlying element of the report. concerns are expressed for the threats and attacks on ngos in some member states, including several explicit references to the hungarian foreign interference and relevant ecj court ruling against it. i have to say, i’m glad you’re waking up to orbán in this chamber, because i remember during the last mandate, there was an attempt to suspend me for calling him out and apparently using a bad word in here. well, i’ll tell you, he does a lot worse. there’s also a paragraph under ‘general remarks’ chapter, and it is calling for a transparency requirement never to put ngos and beneficiaries at risk. this general idea is also presented along the report. also, the transparency requirements are focused only on the budgetary control aspects and are to be applied to all beneficiaries. on the negative elements in the report – and this has to be said – the report has a quite controversial position on qatargate, still better than the original. it mentions qatargate as an example of the alleged corruption cases which generated public discontent, and on a second paragraph, the report mentions the possibility for eu funds beneficiaries, including ngos, to promote false narratives, as allegedly happened in qatargate. nevertheless, the paragraph continues by underlining that such concerns should not lead to a stigmatisation of all the ngos. overall, the report is better than the draft. nevertheless, i still think it is a soft attack on ngos and i’ll be voting against it.
mr president, the majority of the organisations in the european union, which are today financed from the budget of the european union in excess of half a billion euros, are not non-governmental organisations but soros political organisations with clear political objectives aimed at weakening the member states and completely destroying traditional european values and families. there is hardly any organisation funded by soros' open society that will not receive money from the eu budget. the so-called we can platform is the best example in croatia of how the so-called green activists from the street lights have become a political party that is now destroying zagreb, the capital of the republic of croatia. ngos are so-called green associations whose members have never cut grass or planted a tree, and at the same time it is impossible to find an association that cares for sick children that has received money from soros or from the budget of the european union. it all speaks to the current financing.
mr. speaker, for at least the last 30 years, since the world became unipolar, we've been living in an atmosphere of wealth where people can do what they want and nobody can do anything to them. after the terrorist attack on october 7, israel had the right to defend itself. that right does not include the right to destroy every building and everything in gaza. no, there's no way we can level the playing field between children, civilians and terrorists in gaza. in a hundred days, more than 24,000 people have been killed, including more than 10,000 children, journalists, un staff. no wonder the south african republic has filed a genocide lawsuit against israel at the international court of justice in the hague, and many other countries want to join. something like this was unthinkable just a few years ago and it's a testament to the weakening of the west, the strengthening of the south and the creation of a multipolar world. the middle east is cooking - from egypt to arabia, iran to turkey - people and politicians are furious at the news from gaza. turkish president erdogan compared the israeli prime minister to hitler and threatened that the turkish army would fight in gaza. the us and netanyahu's influence in the middle east can only lead to regional or even global warfare and most threaten the very future of israel itself. in 1947, the un's two-state plan was adopted. the state of israel exists, it's time to create lasting peace and the state of palestine.
hon. chairman, it's been 100 days since the terrorist organization hamas committed the greatest crime in israel's history, and we're still getting information about the continued terrorist attacks they're carrying out. yet, there are those who are loud, and we hear that here today, who relativize the crimes committed by hamas and want to equate blame for the war that israel was forced to wage. we should therefore use this debate to once again strongly condemn the crimes of hamas and call on the international community to provide clear and unambiguous support to israel and its right to self-defense. and it should be absolutely clear: there is no survival and security for israel without the complete destruction of hamas and all its supporters. of course, every effort must be made to avoid civilian casualties, but we must also make it clear that hamas is responsible for these victims, who are constantly hiding behind women and children. however, what is of particular concern is the rise of radical islamism here in the european union and its metropolises. it is uncomfortably surprising the tolerance we show to such groups who, expressing hatred, freely assemble and march through european cities. i therefore call for zero tolerance towards the gatherings of radical islamist groups in the european union that spread hatred and... (the president took the floor)
i have had the privilege of being part of the official delegation of the european parliament to india, to the cities of delhi and mumbai. the delegation's motive was to accelerate the conclusion of the trade agreement. so, if you're traveling to india, leave all prejudices at home because india is a country that is developing at the speed of light and it's model. they don't follow american market fundamentalism or chinese statehood. foreign minister jaishankar and trade and industry minister goyal, with whom we had the opportunity to discuss, i must note, are the most capable executives i have ever had the opportunity to discuss. they know exactly what they want and they defend it very well and they don't give it to anyone. over the past 15 years, india's results have been impressive, with 400 million people lifted out of extreme poverty. as much as brussels would like, the indians will not give up their positions on fossil fuels and foreign policy. they need all the energy they can get, both renewable and non-renewable, and they don't intend to slow down their development and improve the lives of their 1.4 billion people. as much as brussels would like, the indians will not renounce their great friendship and partnership with the russian federation, which has helped them greatly during the decades of conflict with pakistan. the sanction will never be. there is a division between delhi and europe and therefore there will be no trade agreement. ... (the speaker took the floor)
the commission will take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures. the treaty establishing the european union is the primary law of the european union and the debate on its implementation or amendments to the law always occupies the public interest. the document we are discussing today calls, among other things, for a november amendment resolution, which was extremely problematic. so i take this opportunity to reiterate the importance of maintaining unanimity in the council. more than 90% of decisions are already taken by qualified majority and unanimity in the remaining few areas ensures that smaller member states also protect their own interests and national identity. and that's how it should stay. the veto is now used only in those areas that states consider to be of key national interest, such as foreign policy, defence and taxation. i cannot imagine a union where strategic decisions would be made by force and by vote because only then would implementing such, arbitrary decisions be virtually impossible. the complete abolition of the veto and the overriding of the vote would only increase divisions in the european union and endanger its entire survival, and certainly not strengthen it. in the area of citizenship, however, i would like to emphasise that citizenship provisions must not be used to infringe the principles of subsidiarity and investment in areas within the competence of the member states. member states shall be free to determine the conditions for obtaining their own citizenship and should remain so regardless of certain problems related to gold visas. in addition, they can, in accordance with their own values and traditions, regulate matters of marriage and family and no eu non-discrimination statute can and should circumvent their right to do so.
i am sorry, but your speaking time is over. thank you very much. dear colleague, i have just started chairing, so i didn’t privilege any other colleague.
mr president, i want to speak to you. i did not understand mr tertsch in spanish because i am not a strong spaniard, but i think he was excited that those who spread critical words here were being turned away by the presidency and that those who spoke in the spirit of this eu centralism were being given more and more time. i would like to say that the commission is not going to be able to do this. i am already a little suspicious of being half hungarian, after having already spoken several times for hungary, which i do not. i am 100 percent austrian, but i also have a high sense of justice because i believe the way hungary and its people are treated here is not fair, not decent. the hungarians are a valuable part of the european people's family and did not deserve to be treated as you treat the hungarians. i know orbán is pursuing a policy against centralization here. that's a political opinion. i can only give him the right to do so, and that's fine! orbán is pursuing a policy of speaking out against illegal migration, of speaking out against asylum abuse. he's right! orbán is making a policy where he stands up for conservative values and for the family. he's right! if you want to do something where something's wrong, please focus on the things here. take the procurement process, for example, in the covid vaccine sector, where communications between the commission president and the pfizer chief are still closed... thank you for turning me away.
the honourable chairman, namely, a prominent croatian television journalist once said, we entered the eu so we could work in europe. so if there's any union you need to join to work with dignity in croatia, i answered. in the first decade after the civil war, domestic peanut vendors sold 95 percent of croatian banks, telecommunications, large stakes in oil, pharmaceutical and other industries to european corporations. what was not sold in the first decade was sold in the second decade, including tourist capacity. what are copenhagen criteria and the rule of law? please, please! ukraine, or what remains after the peace is made, becomes the perfect candidate for the union. poor, demographically halfway, overwhelmed by corruption and war profiteers, indebted to god on all sides. a land in such a state can easily give up family silver. zelensky has already met with the american blackrock, which is targeting ukraine's agricultural land. what remains of the workable population of the ukrainian people will come to work in western europe. croats, my croats, today they ask themselves what they fought for. i wish the ukrainians a better fate.
- your honor, the president. hungary is a european country with a great history and a defining european nation. hungarian culture has had a great influence on european culture and our common european traditions. naturally, hungarians also have a wide range of political views, make free decisions and go their own way, and like all nations, hungarians are respected. however, following the political debates in europe in recent years, i have a firm impression that hungary is undergoing a number of politically motivated and unjust attacks. i'm not going to say anything.
mr president, every euro in the budget of the european union is taken from the citizens of the european union, whether they are retired or unemployed, employed students. they want a better standard of living for that money. and what did they get? they've had a huge inflation. inflation is the result of hundreds of billions of euros being burned on non-existent green policies, non-existent vaccines, and now on the one hand we have orban, who wants to protect the eu budget and not let 80 billion euros of eu citizens end up in blackrock's hands over ukraine, and on the other hand we have mrs von der leyen, who has again fled her job today. she cowardly ran away because she can't stand to spend three hours at her workplace. so we need to send security to bring her in. a lady can't work three hours in a month. so what's that? shame on you!
the opening of negotiations with ukraine and moldova, together with favourable conclusions on bosnia and herzegovina, represents a historic moment at a time when the geopolitical environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and unpredictable. at the same time, we urgently need adequate funding for ukraine's aid, but also investments in competitiveness, migration and asylum reform and support for the western balkans. it's a concrete test of european civilization. now, five months before the european elections. it's not a time for experiments, it's not a time for charlatans, for amateurs, who we heard in this discussion today, who not only didn't do anything for croatia or for europe, but they didn't even support the record investment package that is now changing croatia. it's not even time for pointless over-warning. it is time for the accountability of all european leaders, with a common sense approach and a focus on competitiveness and security.
the european union is moving towards a green and digital environment, and the way we work and the knowledge we need from our citizens are changing. and that's normal and expected. but what really worries me and sadden me is the fact that our society is increasingly divided and the middle class is getting smaller and smaller and smaller, and in less developed countries like croatia, unfortunately, this process is even more pronounced and the question is what to do to stop and reverse this process. the answer, colleagues, must go in the direction of aligning the needs of the economy and the education system. we have occupations that no one wants to study today, and on the other hand, high schools and colleges enroll with high quotas of occupations that are too much in the job market anyway. so it's time to put the human being in focus and answer the question of what effects the trends of the 4.0 economy have on man and his wages and how more of our human being can help to live and survive easier in today's modern world.
your honor, commissioner for agriculture wojciechowski, i have to convey the concerns of the croatian grain producers here. they're being killed by dishonest trading practices. in fact, the price of wheat imported from ukraine to croatia is about eur 130 per tonne, while the price on the world exchanges is about eur 230 per tonne. croatian peasants are not protected. i don't actually remember them ever being protected in anything. plenkovic, the prime minister, was aware of the problem back in november last year, but he ignores it. also, manufacturers are being exploited by big buyers. our peasants have no choice and they have to sell for those 130 euros because they have no storage, no silos, no infrastructure. big companies deliberately harm farmers by underestimating their wheat quality, while farmers are powerless. the problem is also the import of flour from ukraine that is sold at a low price and that is at the price of unharvested wheat and it is packed in bags of one kilogram and two kilograms and sold like our croatian flour. and he didn't. that's how a piece of ukrainian flour ended up on croatian tables. unfortunately, there is no quality control, which is not transparent and complete, neither flour nor wheat. this is how the croatian peasants are destroyed because their real production has increased by 50 percent and they sell at 50 percent lower prices. if this continues, production will disappear.
the president of the council of ministers, mr president, has been in the position of the president of the council of ministers. it is absurd that he tolerates alliances with russia in circumstances where the rest of the european union is pursuing a uniform foreign policy towards russia. however, now it's really enough. this is a country where the media is controlled by the authorities and where it is virtually impossible to hold fair elections. not only is belgrade unwilling to agree on kosovo, but greater serbian hegemony has become a key factor in instability in neighboring countries. the politics of the serbian world is perhaps the most visible in montenegro, which with the help of the serbian orthodox church wants to return to the serbian and russian spheres of interest. such a policy is incompatible with european values. so once again, in who knows how, i call on the european union to use the mechanisms at its disposal, including political and economic ones, to prevent the spread of greater serbian hegemony before it is too late. we must force serbia to decide finally whether they want to build a european road or remain a black hole on the map of europe forever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have rarely seen such a clear demonstration of contempt for people and their suffering, as we have just seen, but it is good to make things clear. i should like to begin by thanking mrs miranda for the pressure she put on us to hold this debate, which is very important, as is being proved. the galician people are once again the victims of an environmental disaster. that's 26 tons of tiny pellets that went into the sea. as happened in the prestige blackout almost 20 years ago, the inertness and incompetence of the galician pp authorities is unacceptable. the pollution of our marine ecosystems by microplastics cannot go unpunished, neither in galicia nor anywhere else on the planet. the environmental impacts are huge and will continue to spread. it is estimated that until spring, pelites continue to reach the coast, not only of galicia but also of portugal and france. we need therefore ambitious measures to prevent contamination and pollution by microplastics and to prevent these situations from continuing. and i am grateful for the clarity of the spanish right-wing deputies, not only for confirming environmental denialism, but for the total contempt for the people who are suffering.
mr. speaker, plastic pellets and their impact on plastic pollution are significant. every environmental disaster is a huge loss of life on land, and so is this one in galicia, however, 80 percent of the waste in the sea comes from land, not from sea-related activities. it is therefore necessary for each state to build its own and adapted waste management system with the best available technology and the highest possible recycling. in some waste types, it may be wise to combine two or more countries because they have no quantity to make the treatment more efficient. let's not be fooled, plastic recycling is on low grain and in large quantities, and since china banned it, it's just been shipped to malaysia, thailand or vietnam. in croatia, waste management is very bad. the capital recently had a large garbage dump. a plastic warehouse burned down in osijek, and the bales are still in the magic kingdom. all the waste management centers that were built are bad. they're destroying the environment, health and local budgets, and the ones that are being built will be the same. i've spoken about it countless times. i blame domestic organized crime that the authorities in zagreb, say, are unable to stop, and in the scandal with minister filipović it was revealed who really is harming the environmental protection fund and the money that is there. it's up to the european jaspers to approve all the bad projects that this crime gives it and verify. croats must gather political forces and stop it or they will live in a land of environmental disasters.
the honourable chairman, commissioner. we cannot expect fishermen to reduce their fishing effort or invest money to switch to sustainable fishing gear while payments for temporary cessation of fishing activities are delayed for several years. what do people live on? we are aware of the importance of sustainable fisheries to our economy, but we must remember the main socioeconomic goal of the common fisheries policy, which is a decent standard of living. the socio-economic aspects and food security should be an integral part of the cfp, but a balance between environmental, economic and social objectives needs to be maintained in order to ensure the sustainability of fishing communities. we are facing challenges, especially in the mediterranean, where the recovery of fish stocks needs to be accelerated, and the best solution for this is currently the new nature recovery regulation. for years, nothing has been done and the fight against illegal fishing is not mutually exclusive with the restoration of marine areas. when nature is restored, the fishery fund will also increase, ensuring a long-term fish supply and the dignity of people who live off fisheries.
madam president, this report is expected in many member states because, as some colleagues in the european parliament might say, there is - and statistics show this - a gender gap. women, of course, are, at least in my country, the majority of the population, but if you look at the percentage of women in well-paid positions, in leadership positions, even here in the european parliament, you see that they are a minority. sure, all the successive crises have brought, if you will, a greater effect on women. oftentimes, domestic violence is not properly combated and i am glad that this report - and i voted for it - also indicates the responsibilities of the member states, because it cannot be done only at the level of the european union. member states shall have competence to address and include gender equality in all their policies. after all, in a job, we all have to be equal, both men and women, and i tell my colleague who disagreed with this report that i, as a woman, faced this problem early in my career. so i voted this report.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, if you are a young girl and from the south of italy, perhaps from the interior areas which have the highest depopulation rates, you are the most unfortunate person in europe; you are the one with the least chance of being put into the world of work than any other region of our continent. i'm not talking about the gender pay gap. in the south, this problem is not even there because women don't have jobs. the resolution rightly highlights the new causes of these gender inequalities several times, and mentions the war in ukraine, the resulting energy crisis, the resulting inflation crisis, and calls on president von der leyen to remain true to her commitment to promoting gender equality in all her policies. but it is not to be said that von der leyen, in the context of arms shipments and direct financing, has allocated 91 billion euros to support ukraine, which should have helped to improve the situation of women. well, that's the double standard that people can't understand and don't understand because it's really incomprehensible.
the report also highlights the importance of the role of the european union in the development of geothermal energy. my croatia has a huge geothermal potential at lower depths than the european average. the potential of croatia has not yet been exploited. only this small, researched part has a greater potential power of 1 gw than, say, the krško nuclear power plant. the commission has not yet taken into account the additional heating of buildings or greenhouses by hot water. however, in a corrupt environment and society, such as, unfortunately, croatia, led by hdz, capital projects cannot go without plunge and corruption so we already have a situation that croatia's first thermal power plant, the big 1, is already plunging into a plunge. wherever you have a project worth more than, say, 100 million kuna or 50 million euros, there are certain interest groups, through the ruling party, who put in a whisper, withdraw money and are not looking to help the state and the economy and the local community, but to get the money they take as quickly as possible, and the sanctions for that don't exist or they come very, very late. so the usefulness of something like this is questionable.
the honorable chairman. the resolution is not good and will not help the peace or the people of gaza, it is not fair, it is not real. you can't blame palestine or gaza for everything, and israel for nothing. this shows that the bahá'í policy of the west is moving forward. in the middle east, everything is escalating -- from lebanon, the red sea, syria, iran, pakistan, and all the other relationships there. recently, the iraqi parliament asked the us military to leave in early 2020. a few days ago, the iraqi prime minister repeated it - the second time they asked them to leave. they won't leave. in syria, in eastern syria, the american military is stationed, there it takes oil and sends it out somewhere, probably to israel itself. and how america responds to this injustice, sending 1,500 more troops to syria and iraq, here's the news from three days ago. so as long as these imperialist, unjust and vain aspirations and relations are on the west's side towards the middle east, we can only expect further escalation. we must finally get down to earth, be real, seek justice and peace and settle for a state of palestine and finally establish a balance of power.
i voted against another resolution against hungary, this time called the state of hungary - frozen eu funds. hungary has a veto right because it's in the treaties. those are the rules of the game agreed upon before you join, please. the polish government has been mistreated by brussels for 10 years for the rule of law, and now that the new prime minister tusk is going that way, you won't tell him anything because he's one of the brussels citizens. i've said here many times that once a country democratically elects a government that thinks differently, a great brussels massacre is built and a persecution begins. and indeed, slovakia received a government a few months ago that doesn't think like brussels. the problem of corruption immediately came up and here are the resolutions against slovakia today. the croatian government, led by a corrupt, and authoritatively condemned hdz by the supreme court, against which there is no appeal, you will never criticize. there are no resolutions against them, no matter how much money from eu funds goes missing, what greco or the eppo think in their reports, what uskok is ineffective, etc. - why? because she's loyal to brussels. or some rules will apply to everyone or to no one. - i'm not. and then some people here wonder why the eu is in crisis. well, it's precisely because of political violence and double standards.
madam president, in the face of the anger of our farmers, emmanuel macron has said that he has stopped negotiations for a trade agreement with the countries of mercosur. the commission has assured us that this is not the case. it will continue to negotiate and even hopes to conclude before june. a further free trade agreement will contribute to the death of french and european agriculture, forever sacrificed to brussels' trade policy. the commission considers the calculation to be simple: we must sell german cars, we must import our fruit, our sugar and our meat. and no matter what, our food sovereignty, already threatened by the green pact, supported by the far left right up to the epp. the environment is no matter what, it is a pretext to add more and more standards and taxes that overwhelm our businesses and our producers. it doesn't matter the quality of our imported food, the lack of mirror clauses, the constant unfair competition that drives our farmers to suicide. mr macron is three times guilty: he is guilty of making false promises to the farmers who are in the process of being arrested, he is guilty of over-transposing european standards, which his constituents still systematically support here, he is guilty of cowardice in the face of brussels. france must go to the iron fist on this case. let us not import agricultural products which we prohibit at home.
madam president, mr president charles michel, mr vice-president šefčovič, the council's conclusions are excellent, but one element is missing which is extremely important. what is the action plan for european agriculture and farmers? when farmers in the european union, from brussels, from paris, from strasbourg to bucharest, are on the streets, something is wrong, deeply wrong. and then, to avoid a situation where tens of thousands of farmers would most likely go bankrupt, we would have a completely affected agriculture in the european union, a concrete plan of action is needed, financial support measures. to survive, these people need financial support from the european commission to get through this difficult time. they need exemptions from taxation, which you know can only be taken at european level, so that they can survive this difficult time of great market distortions. president von der leyen announced today that she is already giving up reducing pesticides by 2030. so, it can. we need a new plan, reagricultureeu, which is a kind of repowereu with money and measures for the european union's agriculture.
madam president, mr president of the european council, mr vice-president of the commission, the last european council once again demonstrated our firmness against the threat of war by putin, even overcoming the blackmail of orbán in our support of ukraine. this is a new test of european unity and determination. however, on that same day we saw the streets of brussels burning with the discomfort of farmers and ranchers, who pulled out their tractors to protest and to express their frustration, more than justified. some of us have been listening to them for years. i myself have traveled through all the provinces of spain from orense to almeria, from north to south, to see on the ground the difficulties of the orchard, the extensive livestock and the olive grove. their protests remind us of the importance of a just transition to sustainability that leaves no one behind. some, however, prefer to keep looking elsewhere. many in this community are unaware that changes, though necessary, take time. and we all want a more sustainable and ecological future. but let us not forget that ignoring the present of those who work the land can turn their discontent into a force that will cause us to move forward and even backward. and europe cannot afford to ignore its demands.
the president of the european commission, mrs von der leyen, left us again after a few minutes. here, mr michel, president of the european council, congratulations to you. you're at your workplace today. however, you also announced that you would leave us before the end of your term. what can we tell you today? that we're a ship without a captain? one hundred and eighty billion euros is owed to the european union, we're destroying agriculture in europe, we've almost destroyed the automotive industry. what can we say about this ship of ours? he's definitely without a captain, and he's obviously starting to sink. so if the credit is raised, then we should use it for something that will generate new money, not throw it into a well like we throw it now. one hundred and eighty billion for the 500,000 killed in the war in ukraine. that money could be used better.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, ms minister, honourable members, i am sure that we all vividly remember our extraordinary plenary session in brussels, taking place a few days after the russian invasion in ukraine. i recall our common shock and horror that, after long decades of peace, war has returned back to europe. as you recall, we listened to the video-link address of president zelenskyy and have been impressed by his determination to fight the invaders, to defend the liberty and sovereignty of his country. i believe that that was the moment when this unbreakable bond between the european union and ukraine was firmly established. at that time, we couldn’t imagine the level of human suffering, the scale of tragic loss of lives, and destruction brought by war. at that time, we couldn’t imagine either the bravery of the ukrainian people, but also the level and strength of european solidarity, unity and resilience. we couldn’t expect the rapid enlargement of nato and the vigour of the enlargement process, where ukraine, moldova, georgia and western balkan countries are now firmly on the path to become eu member states. the decision of the european council on the eur 50 billion of ukraine facility, which we discussed at the previous debate, confirms that the eu will stay shoulder to shoulder with ukraine and ukrainians, and that we will do that as long as it takes. this debate, honourable members, sends another strong message of support and solidarity to ukraine. for that, i really would like to thank you.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, commissioner šefčovič, honourable members, since the beginning of the russian aggression war, ukraine has shown unwavering resistance and deserves our full admiration and respect. throughout the conflict, the european union has proved to be ukraine's closest and most reliable partner, providing an unprecedented set of support measures in terms of their content and scope. these measures can certainly be improved, adapted to take account of their effects on our internal market. some of you have mentioned the plight of farmers. we must certainly listen to them, show flexibility and adapt measures. the union has stated on several occasions that its support for ukraine is unwavering and will last as long as necessary. the recent agreement of the extraordinary european council on the facility for ukraine on 1 february shows that we are keeping our word. but we must do more, and our work must certainly continue on several fronts, including arms deliveries. we must accelerate it. we must finalize the facility for ukraine. the council and the european parliament are working towards the objective of the agreement in principle reached last night. the presidency is fully engaged in the discussions with parliament on the cfp so that an agreement can be reached as soon as possible. on the military support front, the european council last week called on the council to reach an agreement by the beginning of march on the creation of a fund for specific assistance to ukraine. we'll be doing the work here, too. i also said that a new package of sanctions was being prepared for the symbolic date of 24 february. i would like to say that the 12th package of sanctions on diamonds is already in force and that belgium has participated in the development of a mechanism to avoid circumvention, thanks, inter alia, to the association of the g7 countries. and speaking of the fight against sanctions circumvention, which is of course still one of our priorities, we have increased awareness of third countries, particularly through the work of the special envoy david o'sullivan, and we will continue to focus on companies in these countries. we are already seeing the first results of these efforts in several countries and we will continue to support ukraine and sanction russia for as long as necessary. i would like to conclude by reaffirming here that the future of ukraine, the future of its citizens, lies within the european union and that we will not abandon them. slava ukraine and live europe!
thank you very much, madam minister. the debate is closed and the vote will take place at the next session. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. ukraine must remain a priority on the eu political agenda, as russia's political and military objectives have not changed and the large-scale military threat remains. the eu must continue to press russia. the final package of 12 sanctions was adopted in december. sanctions weaken the ruble, increase inflation. we're talking now that the revenue generated from frozen russian assets will be used to rebuild ukraine. we need to isolate russia internationally, we need to restrict russia's ability to finance the war with sanctions. we must also strengthen the european union to make it more resilient and economically strong. we need to expand our production capacity in the defense industry, to increase the resilience of our energy infrastructure. we cannot stop this fight for democracy and freedom. we must also make every effort to ensure that war crimes and violations of international law are held accountable.
in writing. – our solidarity with for ukraine must remain unwavering to counter an autocratic threat to democracies worldwide and to our security. when a democratic country fights a war of aggression with an authoritarian state, free nations cannot stand by. only by delivering continued and substantial support – humanitarian, economic and military aid and ammunition – can we promote an alliance of democracies globally. if we grant autocracies impunity, they will use it to single out and overpower democracies one by one. furthermore, the eu’s security and defence policy starts outside our borders. eu member states can only be safe if we support and rebuild ukraine first. showing weakness to russia, a country that has already been threatening europe’s critical infrastructure and airspace, will only embolden them. therefore, to defend democracies and promote european security, we must continue and increase our support for ukraine. to be able to provide sufficient assistance to our ukrainian partners necessitates a close diplomatic relationship with the us – the kind of cooperation that will stand the test of elections. only a united transatlantic front can provide the needed material and political assistance that can pave the way to a free, sovereign, eu and nato member ukraine.
it's written. i am against any aid to ukraine except humanitarian aid. i welcome the decision of the croatian council to refuse the training of ukrainian troops in croatia. the war in ukraine is lost and no amount of money, weapons or equipment can change it. maybe something can prolong the war a little. it's a waste of money if there's no one to hold a gun. the ukrainian army is in very bad shape, people are being forced to recruit from the streets with very little training, the average age of the soldiers is over 40, and women's uniforms are being ordered. what we're seeing is nothing more than a massacre of the ukrainian people, with the west sending them into a battle where they have no chance. victoria nuland's recent (recent) visit to kiev shows who is ruling ukraine - the same people who organized and financed the euromaidan coup. the ukrainian people need to get rid of such colonial agents and the toxic influence of american neocons, negotiate a truce with russia and start peace negotiations, because otherwise they are threatened with disappearance - until the last ukrainian. the sooner this happens, the fewer people will die and the less territory will eventually have to be ceded to its neighbors. to the neoconservatives, the lives of ukrainians mean nothing, just like the lives of iraqis, libyans, syrians, afghans or anyone else. their policies cause 90 percent of the evil in the world.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. a3-0315/92) by mr van den broek, on behalf of the left. and that's partly true. we want everyone to have access to healthy, safe and sustainable food. that everyone can choose affordable food without agricultural toxicity, genetics and animal suffering. it is our task here in the european parliament to make this possible. this bill on genetically modified foods does the exact opposite. it leaves out all the carefully laid down rules to ensure healthy, safe and sustainable food. it is putting pressure on freedom of choice and it is the death knell for the sustainable agricultural sector. how is it possible that the future of the whole biological sector is at stake here? that's possible because the biotech industry has put everything into doing everything it can to get rid of the rules for genetics. as a blow to the arrow, large seed companies are given all the space to patent plants, properties and techniques involved in the production of our food. genetics is not the answer to the great problems our food system is currently facing. it's not going to lead to food security. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of animals and the environment. it leads to scale-up, monocultures and the demise of small-scale farmers. the european parliament can still choose. you vote for real food security and you vote against this bill.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, over time many of the natural plant properties, the plant defence mechanisms, have been extracted from our food crops. defence mechanisms against, for example, diseases, pests or even drought resistance. by classical breeding, we could get these defense mechanisms back into our plant breeds and grains, for example. unfortunately, this is going to take decades. and then there is the question of how long these defense mechanisms will stand up to the whims of the outside world. with new breeding techniques, we can do this in a few years. this way we can better protect our food crops in a natural way. this means less use of plant protection products, but also a lower risk of miscegenation in, for example, dry and warm areas. especially as climate change becomes more and more tangible, this is an absolute must. i have been working for 10 years to make the application of these techniques possible in the eu. meanwhile breeders are moving abroad, where the legislation has evolved over time. we don't have the luxury of letting these innovations go unused on the basis of a gut feeling. i am therefore pleased with the new proposal from the european commission, because it is an important piece of the puzzle for more sustainable agriculture.
mr. president, my country croatia has declared itself a gmo-free country, but with this law it can no longer remain so. my view is that for new genomic techniques, they should have at least the same rules as for old genomic techniques. this is about deregulation of genetically modified organisms and their derived products. the passage of this bill will begin another mass experiment on the population, citizens and consumers, but also on all of nature and the biosphere, which will be irreparably contaminated with genetically modified material. you can't stop throwing citizens synthetic genetic material, can you? conventional farming and gmo and ngt farming will all be the same now, which is unacceptable. there will be no labelling of such products. obligating all member states to use genetically modified plants in agriculture is simply a crime with unknown consequences for human health and the environment. i'm against farmers getting involved with big seed producers. that is, if you have a field planted with a new variety or traditional techniques, natural, who says you can't be sued by the one who patented the same genetics, explaining that he could have produced it and it's his. we have a mix of big corporations and small manufacturers. we know who's losing without state protection.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. i think there is every reason to welcome the commission's 2040 objectives. it is good to reduce emissions by at least 90%. it is good that the eu is at the forefront in this area. it's helping to inspire us, the united states, china and other continents. for the high ambitions that drive us to do everything in our power to become climate neutral by 2050. and of course it is absolutely essential that these objectives are implemented in the member states. implementation is essential if we are to build on renewable energy and achieve energy efficiency. i also think that we need to think of new ways of implementing a common european financial instrument for green investment, which member states could have access to if all the measures adopted in this house had been fully implemented. this could be a new positive narrative for citizens, governments and businesses across europe, so that we can have a common interest in getting legislation implemented so that we can live up to our climate goals. it's in a hurry.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. that's good news for our health, for our environment and for our planet. because we're only going to get there with a fair climate policy that supports vulnerable families. europe must therefore invest more resources in insulating our homes and making full use of affordable green energy from us. we must now invest in sustainability of our economy and our agriculture, because it is five for twelve. farmers today are seeing their crops fail because of floods and extreme drought. now we need to do what science demands and not push the pause button like the climate wizards. we stand for a fair and ambitious climate policy that everyone can take with them. because addressing the climate crisis is addressing inequality.
he asks "blue sign". mr president, since you accuse us of being unreasonable, what are the measures to be taken to tackle climate change and the risk posed by the new generations? or do you and your party deny that this is a necessity for our europe and for future generations? please be on time. it is too easy to accuse others of being irrational when they have not proposed or denied evidence.
mr president, commissioner, today we welcome from the european parliament this positive announcement by the european commission that we will reduce our emissions in europe by 90% by 2040. a message that strengthens our global credibility as leaders in climate action and reaffirms our commitment to the paris agreement and climate neutrality by 2050. it is important that now the negative voices are also being multiplied, even in this parliament. i would say that there are three fundamental reasons beyond climate for pursuing such a goal: because this will accelerate the reduction of our fossil fuels and we have learned from the invasion of ukraine that it is something toxic to the environment but also to geopolitics; because it will undoubtedly improve public health and the health of our citizens; because it will be good for innovation, technology and the competitiveness of our companies, sending a clear message, a predictable roadmap that will not only push innovation and efforts today but also the competitiveness of tomorrow to have a europe that is also a leader in the economy.
mr president, colleagues must see beyond fit for 55. we must now go for the next stop – 95. se bortom 55, nu måste vi nå mål om minst 95 procent. det här är inte läget att sikta lågt och göra minsta möjliga, men kommissionens förslag är inget annat än mellanmjölk. jag är besviken! halvdan miljöpolitik kommer inte att leda oss framåt. vi kan bättre. hur gör vi det? genom ledarskap. tydlighet. vi stoppar oljan. vi stoppar kolen. vi stoppar gasen. vi måste förbjuda fossila bränslen för energisektorn senast 2035. starta ett kvotsystem för fossil olja så att vi får bort fossilt från produkter. förbjud fossil marknadsföring. städa eu-budgeten från fossil energi. förbjud fossila subventioner. inga nya gaspannor i europa. dubblera eu:s energisamarbete och se till att utöka eu:s utsläppshandel. så visar vi ledarskap och stoppar inte huvudet i sanden. vi presenterar många fina ord i dag från kommissionen, men vi behöver gå från ord till handling. vi kan inte svika klimatet och klimatmålen måste höjas.
president. it is high time we distinguished between climate change and climate policy. yes, we see global temperatures rise and yes, human behavior is accelerating this. but the current climate policy is a complete hoax. if you really want to do something about climate change, we're going to start building nuclear power plants, we're going to start focusing on market-based innovation and climate adaptation, and we're going to stop those arbitrary net-benefit targets that lead us to a central, debt-based, flat-rate economy. this is watermelon policy: green on the outside, red on the inside. i don't blame the left parties for that. after all, this has been their agenda for decades. but it's central politicians like you, mr. hoekstra, who make this happen again and again. you'll probably see the protests outside, too. in june, the voter will present the bill.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of a farmer's revolt, the european commission has set itself the objective of reducing the union's greenhouse gas emissions by 90% by 2040. however, this new project is of concern to agriculture because it emphasizes the supposed lack of progress on the part of farmers. it seems therefore to announce an additional screw-up for certain sectors particularly targeted, particularly farming, which are accused of emitting too much methane. in view of this gloomy outlook, i would like to recall the specificity of our agricultural sector, whose main role is to ensure our food security. we must therefore put an end to this absurd policy of agricultural decline. the commission must achieve its climate objectives by other means than sacrificing european agriculture. it is urgent to establish an agricultural exception, both to the green pact and to the free trade agreements.
the honorable chairman, google bard, a tool of artificial intelligence, asked if a radical reduction in the earth's population would help reduce co2 levels, directly and unambiguously answering that co2 makes up 0.042 percent of the earth's atmosphere. for example, in the same atmosphere, the nitrogen in the air is 78 percent. can there be life on earth and in the oceans without that 0.042 percent? the answer is extremely simple and can be understood by anyone, including everyone in this room - it cannot exist. there's always talk of a zero carbon footprint. zero co2 emissions in translation means the disappearance of humanity, the disappearance of all plants, the disappearance of animals and the disappearance of fish. one man exhausts 0.7 kilograms of co2 a day, 255 kilograms a year. eight and a half billion of us live an average of 73 years and we create 158,000 billion co2 without eating, bathing, building, living or using any form of transportation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, drought and water scarcity are not a temporary problem. we have more than enough scientific evidence that climate change is the result of climate change and will tend to intensify in the future, especially in the countries of southern europe, particularly portugal. unfortunately, in view of all these facts, several member states are slow to take the necessary measures, such as measures to save, reuse water and, where appropriate, to resort to solutions such as desalination. in my country, despite numerous appeals, the incumbent government has never put forward concrete measures to this problem. instead of acting, it merely reacts to crises. this is what it is doing now, in the face of a severe drought in the algarve region, which threatens agricultural production, tourism and urban supply itself. we must also study this phenomenon more closely and find solutions at european union level. we need a european water strategy. we need more science and innovation in this area. and that is why i have been striving to create a knowledge and innovation community within the european institute of innovation and technology, dedicated to the study of water. i hope that my country, portugal, will play an important role in this.
i don't know if you've ever experienced water reductions in your regions, but believe me, it's not easy or pleasant. it's not easy for farmers who can't water their crops. it's not easy for tourism, which can't fill pools. it's not easy for anyone living in these circumstances in those areas. and it's very difficult to watch the weather forecast and hope for rain, maybe tomorrow, maybe the day after tomorrow, or maybe who knows when. so, commissioner, i want us to have a clear strategy and a well-developed plan for investing in new pipelines, in protecting drinking water sources, in water supply and water protection companies, especially in the mediterranean. because you don't have to be particularly smart and smart and know that, unfortunately, we're in a cycle of rising temperatures across europe, and consequently, new droughts. and we need to take this very seriously and invest in and prevent further water reductions. water that isn't everything, but without which everything is nothing.
mr. chairman, being a teacher is not just a job, it's a calling of a lifetime. teachers not only teach, they train young generations for the challenges of the modern age. being a teacher is not easy. there are many challenges facing the education staff, and i personally have been convinced of this as an assistant minister of education. difficulties in finding a permanent job, inadequate pay and slow career advancement are just some of the problems to be warned of. what is particularly concerning, however, is that teachers are increasingly experiencing a surge in verbal and physical violence in schools. we are witnessing a few reports of violence against teachers, which requires a consistent approach to strengthen teachers' standing and protect their integrity. in addition, teachers are often subject to pressure from parents who unrealistically insist on their child's excellent grades, which threatens their independence and degrades the system of assessment based on excellence, as seen, inter alia, in the results of pisa tests. i therefore call on the european commission to consider models that will help member states improve teacher working conditions, ensure the protection of personal integrity and work independence and the application of assessment systems.
