the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is hereby authorised to deliver an opinion. - mr. president, you are my guest. more and more consumers are looking to choose an environmentally friendly product or service. however, it is a good idea for a part of the company to keep the promise as a marketing ploy. the phenomenon of painting green has, unfortunately, recently gained more and more attention. that is why it is especially important to fight against this harmful practice. as rapporteur for the european parliament's environment committee, i am pleased that during the interinstitutional negotiations i have included a number of proposals in the final text which will effectively prohibit misleading green painting. the new rules will now require companies to prove that their products are truly environmentally friendly. i think it's very important to avoid the bad practice of double quality and the use of unprovable and overly general claims and labels like eco, bio-based or climate-friendly. we do not accept that the single market of the union still has a double standard. as a representative of central and eastern europe, i consider it a huge success that the prohibition of double standards has been incorporated into the legislation, which will eliminate the possibility of second-class consumers in the european union from the citizens of the region. overall, we can say that today more and more companies and brands are actually committed to sustainability, so the role of greening is being evaluated. to strengthen consumer confidence. effective regulation can strengthen the credibility of any real corporate greening. our changes are designed to make the green product truly green. let's go on the green path together and stop the bad practice of painting green together.
mr president, i welcome the fact that this text is very much a mess in the dark operations of the ngos financed by the european commission and that it rightly condemns any support for organisations linked to religious fundamentalism. these ngos, supposed to be the bearers of european values, operate with billions of our budget. but where is transparency? where's the responsibility? it's time to lift the veil. these ngos, which thrive under the commission's lax oversight, are not only financial black holes but potential threats to our way of life. they claim to represent civil society, but what are they really for? the commission has failed to effectively control these groups, which has led to the channelling of funds to causes that do not correspond to the interests of the citizens of the member states. and the situation of our member states, their competence is overshadowed by the shady activities of these ngos. we must defend the sovereignty of our nations, including their ability to impose stricter rules in the name of, for example, the fight against corruption. i have tabled an alternative resolution with id group. we demand immediate action by the european commission for more control, strict guidelines and a clear and unambiguous policy on ngo funding, and the immediate cessation of funding of ngos that contribute to illegal immigration or promote values contrary to those of freedom and democracy. there's still a lot of work to do.
mr president, everyone who receives money from the european union and our budget must, of course, operate transparently. the point. that's just our rule, and i don't think there should be any exceptions, even for nonprofits or ngos. this could suggest that these organizations may be using some unfair practices. we do it for countries, we do it for governments, we do it for companies, we do it for universities. everyone has to be transparent. so i'm very happy that we're also talking about transparency in the field of ngos and how they work. they're not holy cows, they're not for profit. i think that, as the rapporteur has said, and i am glad that the commissioner has said, we should have some regulation or some legislative framework for the functioning of non-profit organisations within the european union. i totally support it. we need this, we need to know who we're funding, what we're funding, because sometimes that money is used for a conference, where the same people keep meeting and talking to each other, and then they have a lavish dinner and then they write that they're protecting democracy. i am also very pleased that the commissioner has said that we also want to know about third country funding for these non-profit organisations and that we want to be transparent in this area as well, because this is also a very important matter.
mr president, commissioner reynders, this report on the transparency and accountability of non-governmental organisations financed from the union budget is in line with the evaluation and programmes we have supported and promoted from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for non-governmental organisations, and we recognize positively their role, especially in the humanitarian field, when they act in the sensitive areas of migration and asylum. of course, the view is positive, not stigmatizing, quite the contrary, and i believe that the ngos that have raised €3.7 billion in 20202022 have proven to be consistent with the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and are therefore willing to incorporate a screening system, with a unique identifier of the beneficiaries of the latest grants including those managed through contracts or subcontract. we therefore value ngos positively and recognize their role as an expression of civil society at european level, in the service of european values.
you're the president! my fellow representatives! thirty-three years after the fall of the soviet union, the secret service in hungary is once again able to monitor those considered by the system to be enemies. the hungarian government has recently set up a so-called sovereignty defence office. it has no other function than to threaten, intimidate, or intimidate civil society organisations, political parties or individuals who oppose the system. we have seen before what the hungarian government can do when it comes to civilians. the tax authority shall be directed to charitable organisations. while the government's propaganda is haunting the heads of international human rights organizations. my fellow representatives! i am pleased to see that the european parliament is doing more and more to ensure the use and transparency of eu funds. but i ask you to hear the voices of hungarian civil society organizations, as well as their cry for help, and to do everything possible to prevent them from being threatened by a new organization using russian-style intelligence tools.
- your honor, the president. no one in this room disputes that all beneficiaries, including ngos receiving financial support from the european union, must meet the highest transparency requirement. it's natural. but perhaps even more importantly, we must demand that governments make proper use of subsidies. i am thinking above all of a government, and unfortunately the orbán government is leading the way, which is deliberately and systematically breaking the rules, building up the institutions of the rule of law in order to make its favourite oligarchs rich from eu aid. and when it comes to civilians, let's mention the fake civilians who serve the government's own party-political purposes in hungary and therefore receive billions of dollars in support, where the hungarian people are primarily protesting against the european union. let's be consistent, if we want to make order, we start to make order with governments and the fake civil society organizations that serve them faithfully. so we can make a mess, so we can pay attention to transparency.
in writing. the treaty provisions of the european union have been adopted by the member states. however, it is clear that the practical application of these principles poses a number of problems. the eu institutions often undermine member states' powers by going beyond the framework of the treaties or by interpreting individual provisions in a broad way. the conclusions adopted by the member states in the european council are, for example, ignored by the internal and the judicial councils, and certain family law rules are intended by the union institutions to be imposed on those member states which have defined marriage differently. the higher education system is purely national, yet the european commission feels empowered to punish university students and teachers by freezing resources from the erasmus and horizon programmes. it appears that the eu institutions are asking member states to apply the provisions of the treaties on the basis of political considerations, while maintaining a great deal of freedom for themselves to interpret the treaties of the union. today, the european construction is not built on national parliaments embodying popular sovereignty, but against them, and this also violates the rights of citizens. the position of national parliaments in european integration is a very important issue: the democratic legitimacy of european institutions ultimately rests on the multitude of national publications. it's a shame that the report we have is not objective, so i can't support it.
- your honor, the president. first of all, it is extremely harmful to hungary that the orban policy could lead to initiatives such as the suspension of voting rights in the council, the withdrawal of the successive presidency or even the withdrawal of eu funds to the country. however, they cannot seriously think, my honourable members, my honourable commission, that while they are fighting for democracy, they are overriding the rights enshrined in the treaties with political initiative. orban and his system are all overwhelmed by this helpless twist and pathetic comedy that they've been doing in my classroom for years. if they really want to do something against orbán's regime, they should not embarrass hungary and make proposals that hurt the whole hungarian people, but one that will hurt the system and its oligarchs. we know who they are. so they're gonna take their money, freeze their western bank accounts, ban their companies from european markets. orbán would understand that language. the eu would be sending a message not only to it but to all other systems serving russian interests. less play, more courage. (the speaker is willing to answer a question on a card)
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for your question. my guess is only as good as yours. i’m not an investigative authority, but we are also aware of all the funds that viktor orbán and his oligarchs have at their disposal. we can also see that not only in hungary, but in the whole region, they are expanding and they are building out their illiberal system in the neighbouring state very, very effectively. a good guess is that a significant amount of those monies comes from the eu itself; other sources perhaps come from elsewhere. however, one thing is for sure – the eu is providing funds for the expansion of the illiberal systems.
mr president, let’s start with a fact: european union decision-making is paralysed. the council should face that fact and start doing something about it. article 7.2 was not put in the treaty for nothing. it is there for a reason. so please roll up your sleeves and start the work to save this european union. another fact: the commission would have had time to make the decision on those eur 10.2 billion after the last notification letter from hungary on 12 december, but the commission rushed to the decision in 22 hours simply to make it before the european council meeting. and we still don’t have really a very good idea on the basis of that decision, but we will find out. we will roll up our sleeves, we will do the digging once again, and we are ready to use the legal means that we have. so this is unfortunately where we are on this continent, in this european union. from the citizens point of view, it sure doesn’t look good. the vast majority of people simply cannot understand why one member state is let to keep 26 others hostage. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question)
blue-card question. – dear colleague, there is complete silence from brussels in connection with the recent scandalous events in poland, such as attacking independent media outlets and the courts. neither the european parliament nor the european commission comment on this issue, nor do those who previously most loudly asked for the application of the rule of law. what a surprise that brussels is turning away its head when the tusk government is trampling on democracy! don’t you think that double standards are applied in brussels, and the whole rule of law procedure is only used to impose leftist ideologies?
blue-card answer. – i’ll answer the question with pleasure. i surely don’t think that this is a leftist plot – and i have a very good argument to answer you about the polish situation, because in my previous life i worked with a lot of polish friends. i was in warsaw, i knew the tvp, telewizja polska back then, and it was a free media. but over the last few years something awful happened in poland and these people were not free to exercise their mandate of journalism anymore. this is the unfortunate situation. i think that our polish friends can give you the arguments easily on what has actually happened in poland.
mr president, the fact that there was no agreement last december on the revision of the multiannual financial framework was not good news. we must make urgent budgetary decisions, because fundamental policies depend on it. we can start with the most obvious: financial support for ukraine. without a deal in december to mobilise 50 billion euros, we will have to throw out once again our imagination and our exceptional instruments so as not to cause a bigger problem to ukrainians than they already have. we can continue with step: a clear, insufficient response if we really want to support investment in critical technologies. and it is an insufficient answer, yes, but at least it would exist if the revision of the financial framework were approved. we can also talk about the migration and asylum pact, which has no funds, or the consequences of the war in ukraine on neighboring countries, to name just a few of the needs and problems we have on the table. i hope that in the february council they will not leave the house until they have reached an agreement, but an agreement consistent with their own commitments. i also hope that the february meeting will not be overshadowed by any casual release of funds for hungary. we have warned you in due course that we did not share your assessment of the hungarian government's compliance at all and therefore, as we have agreed, we will evaluate that decision and act accordingly. this union, which is based on values, principles and commitments, cannot fail before anyone or anything. and at the next council, the commission and the council have a wonderful opportunity to debate.
mr president, dear colleagues, i am honestly unsure if the european commission fully comprehends the extent of the damage it has done by giving in to viktor orbán’s blackmail. because it invited not just orbán but every single aspiring european autocrat to follow the same old extortionist tactics: destroy democracy, weaken the eu from the inside, wave around the veto card and, when the time comes, just be ready to accept huge sums of money and accept the humiliation of being sent out of the room to go to the bathroom or have a coffee. congratulations! amazing achievement! but you know, there is also an even more serious problem here. you, with this decision, opened the door wide for even further abuse. just consider what happened right before the eu decided to unblock billions of euros to the orbán government and praise them for this great progress in rebuilding the rule of law, on the very same day that hungary introduced the so-called sovereignty protection bill – a piece of legislation that is shockingly oppressive, even with the orbán regime standard. this law threatens journalists and civil society organisations with jail time for participating in international funding programmes. its intention is crystal clear: to crush dissent, to silence independent media and threaten opposition parties or anybody who would like to stand up against this regime. and i’m seriously asking this: does the commission view this as progress? do you think this deserves a reward? because this is the signal that you just sent. you practically gave a green light to this law. and as so often before, the european parliament will not stay silent. we will remain the only protector of democratic values among the eu institutions. we will see you in court!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the belgian presidency of the council. the presidencies change, but the problems remain, and above all the orbán problem remains: the european parliament has been a very important part of the process of reform. the possibility that he will be added to the post of president-in-office of the european council in the next six months is alarming, but it is alarming that he is blackmailing europe and supporting ukraine. just as the trump ghost is re-emerging in the united states and the continent's public opinion seems now accustomed to war, europe must prove it is. we need to continue to support the ukrainian people, and to reaffirm the message that we stand by their side to defend our freedom. if ukraine falls, other european democracies will follow. and if orbán isn't here again, we can't buy his support with a few billion. the solution is one thing: i would like to see the commission's proposals for a new directive on the protection of workers' rights in the member states.
mr president, mr vice-president, madam minister, the european council in december concluded the successful spanish presidency of the union. we have closed more than 70 legislative files, which have allowed for such important reforms as the electricity market, the new green pact, the new pact on migration and asylum and the first artificial intelligence regulation. we also opened the door to enlargement and resumed and restructured our relations with latin america. ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of europe are calling for more europe and less nationalism. we belong to a club called the european union, where we share rules and values but above all a common destiny. and whether the far right likes it or not, we will remain committed to the european path of progress, social justice and equality. and they will not stop us in our endeavour nor frighten us with their provocations, insults and threats. we know where involution, denialism and nationalism lead us: to war, as president mitterrand said a few decades ago before this house.
- your honor, the president. my fellow representatives. the election campaign is on. the left is right here in the political circus after simply failing to blackmail the commission at will. let's get the facts straight. you have been rightly entrusted with the distribution of eu funds to the commission's wise decision. in the course of long, difficult and difficult negotiations, the commission, which is not at all to blame for its bias, has been able to agree on a single point. the commission has said that the justice reform package meets the expectations. 10 billion euros can be paid legally to hungary. but nothing is expensive for you leftists. they attack the commission, they threaten to sue them to build their political careers out of hungarian hatred. they are trying to prevent further work between the commission and the hungarian government in their campaign, but there is still much work to be done. you're attacking the interests of ten million people. the situation is clear, this is the message of the european left to hungarian voters in their campaign agenda today. for the record, you just made this a campaign event. this is not what parliament deserves, and this is not what the commission deserves. (the speaker is willing to answer a question on a card)
it's a question of cards. i just have one question for the congressman. do you consider manfred weber, the leader of your faction in the european people's party, to be part of the european left, who stood very firmly and very strongly for the defence of the rule of law in hungary?
mr president, dear colleagues, the european union has been created on the basis of close cooperation between countries, with the goal of lasting peace on our continent. for this reason, we share common values of prosperity, democracy and peace. our shared values are now being defended by the blood of the ukrainian people, who have chosen their path for democracy. with this in mind, allow me to appreciate the opening of the accession talks with ukraine and moldova. however, we must not let ourselves lose focus and stop the work on crucial topics such as the continuous support for ukraine and the revision of the current multiannual financial framework. i do believe it is extremely clear that the absolute majority of member states are also clear about this topic. now, more than ever before, every european citizen can see and can understand who is committed to find common solutions to our shared challenges, and who is not. i do support the european commission in this work, and i do believe in an early effective solution.
mr president, i want to speak to you. european tax money for orbán? it is good that there are finally financial consequences for orbán's continued disregard for european values. and the commission, as guardian of the treaties, has a special responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. respect for the charter is a horizontal condition means that money is only available to those who respect fundamental rights. but as long as homophobic laws are in force in hungary or the right to asylum is violated, this condition is not met, the commission's decision is not understandable. it is helping to lose confidence in a democratic europe. we must not be blackmailed, but must defend our values, democracy and the rule of law, loud and clear, together - commission, council, parliament - against attacks by right-wing and anti-democratic groups. that is the task of the future.
a uachtaráin, 2024 will be the year of democracy, with consequential elections taking place all across the world. yet we cannot celebrate this expansive democratic exercise while a democratic country in europe is being bombarded and devastated by a power-hungry totalitarian. i have major concerns about the ongoing situation in ukraine and the hurdles we face in securing the much-needed eur 50 billion special fund for our allies. the urgency of obtaining financial support for ukraine cannot be overstated, especially considering the country’s escalating public deficit, and the pressing need for resources amidst the russian attacks. viktor orbán – putin’s pompous puppet – selfish veto is a stain on europe, and he should not be able to block the will of 26 member states for his own self-interest. yet i am hopeful an acceptable way can be found to overcome this impasse. our support should not only be financial, but also strategic, providing the necessary tools for ukraine to defend itself and ensure a better future for its citizens. while these negotiations are ongoing, the focus must remain on securing the eur 50 billion fund, whether putin’s pompous puppet likes it or not. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question)
blue-card question. – thank you, mr kelly, for your strong and principled words. i just have one very easy question for you. do you consider yourself to be a part of the international left conspiracy against hungary, as mr hölvényi, your colleague in the epp group, has just stated?
madam president, any hate speech legislation risks criminalising those minorities or dissidents that it seeks to protect, and so it risks becoming a tool to protect the dominant groups of society. the elaboration of this report, i’m afraid, is a prime example of this. renew has entrusted ciudadanos to prepare this report. it’s the party that was born to suppress catalan identity and language, a xenophobic party that shamefully was admitted into the liberals in exchange for a handful of votes. they specialise in dehumanising opponents, including me and my colleagues. they specialise in ‘lawfare’. it’s a party that will soon die, suffocated in its own hate. look at who they consulted to write this report, for example impulso ciudadano, a satellite proto-fascist organisation responsible for the removal of the catalan president for exhibiting a banner in support of human rights. how can we hope that this report will help to strike a fair balance between protection of vulnerable groups and freedom of expression? well, in the present conditions, we cannot.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. the legal philosopher ernst-wolfgang böckenförde said that the modern state lives on conditions that it cannot create itself. and what citizens create is free speech, fearless speech. and when hate speech is taking hold in our societies, there is fear of expressing one's thoughts freely. and to defend that freedom of expression, that includes taking action against hate speech. it's poison that's being brought into our societies, from a political point of view, but also from people who don't see themselves as political, but in social media and other channels bring this poison into our societies. i was invited this week by daniel landau of austria to the european parliament. he has joined others in the yes we care initiative! the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the need for a european parliament to be able to act in a democratic way. and we defend them when we act against hate speech, against this poison in our society.
madam president, ‘hanging you is too kind. you should be skinned alive. why can’t she just be shot? she’s just a lying politician. it’s a shame that a horny russian hasn’t raped you yet.’ so, colleagues, these are actual comments from my social media. and i’m quite sure that all of my female colleagues, no matter if they sit on the left side or the right side of this parliament or in the centre, you are familiar with statements like this. i am not here to complain. i have to say that i am in a privileged position. i have chosen a career in the public eye. i have the resources to seek help and a platform to speak out. but i think about all the women who do not. those who suffer in silence, those who endure hatred, violence and harassment, often in their home without support or a voice. and when certain member states, such as hungary, block progress on hate crime legislation, these are the women they are failing, because there is a war on women by these leaders. these are the leaders who claim that the fight against gender-based violence is liberal hysteria. they claim that the istanbul convention is against their values - as if violence could ever be a value! so i demand the belgian presidency to take action. they have to protect the women. eu rules on the safety of women and all citizens should not include opt outs. this is not optional. we need binding rules, not just empty words right now.
that concludes the item.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for its approval at the beginning of its next sitting. if there are no objections, i shall forward the resolutions adopted at today’s sitting to the persons and bodies named in the resolutions.
the next part-session will take place on 25 january 2024.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
good morning, colleagues. i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 18 january 2024.
today the european parliament marks international holocaust remembrance day. we pay tribute to the memory of the victims of the holocaust and reaffirm our unwavering commitment to counter anti-semitism, racism and all other forms of hate. europe remembers. i invite you first to view a video depicting the horror of the auschwitz-birkenau camp as seen from the eyes of one of its survivors – the first female president of the european parliament, simone veil. (the video ‘une vie’ was shown) dear colleagues, dear dignitaries, dear irene shashar, every year at the end of january, this parliament marks the anniversary of the liberation of the nazi concentration and extermination camp of auschwitz-birkenau in 1945. we remember the victims of the holocaust. we remember the six million jewish people, romani people, lgbt communities and many others who were stripped of their dignity because of their religious faith, their ethnicity, race or disability. the path that led to auschwitz and the holocaust began generations before – with scapegoating, bullying and dehumanisation. it began with ostracising those seen as ‘different’, by blaming ‘the other’. the german nazi regime exterminated 17 million men, women and children and inflicted unimaginable suffering and pain on millions more, while others’ silence stood complicit. as one survivor put it – ‘the truly horrific thing was the absence of horror of so many’. the comfort of indifference meant too many closed their eyes and turned away. i am proud that the european parliament is not a place of indifference. i am proud that this house speaks up against holocaust deniers, against conspiracy myths, against disinformation and against violence that deliberately targets and singles out members of our communities. because, despite decades of effort, we have not yet done enough to combat discrimination. dear irene, we are honoured to have you in the european parliament, for this solemn ceremony of remembrance. the european parliament understands its responsibility. in the video, we heard simone veil’s recollection of the horrors of auschwitz – with the number 7-8-6-5-1 tattooed under her skin. she survived the evil of concentration camps and changed the face of modern europe. although, dear irene, none of us can fathom the extent of the pain that you suffered, and you being a hidden child during the war – with nothing but your beloved doll laleczka as your sole companion – we will listen to your story. we will take your lessons with us. we will remember. on holocaust remembrance day, we recall the importance of sharing stories like yours, today and for generations to follow, of protecting our values. the story of europe is one of ideals and values. it is one of overcoming tragedy, of building bridges between peoples, of turning enemies into partners and friends, of building from the ashes. over the years, our union has transformed the lives of millions. we tore down barriers and replaced them with common values. we achieved freedom, guaranteed prosperity, and provided opportunity. we must continue to remember europe’s story, to remember its horrors and to treasure its accomplishment in overcoming them, to understand where we came from, and why, and to teach these lessons to our children. ladies and gentlemen, we remember. i would like now to invite you all to listen to marcelo nisinman – a composer and performer of the bandoneon. he composed this piece especially for today’s holocaust remembrance day event in the european parliament. (applause)(marcelo nisinman performed ‘warsaw’s song’ on the bandoneon) (applause)i now give the floor to irene shashar, holocaust survivor, for her address.
holocaust survivor. – honourable president of the european parliament, roberta metsola, honourable members of the european parliament, honourable ambassadors and permanent representatives, honourable vice-presidents and members of the european commission, honourable president of the european economic and social committee, honourable religious representatives, ladies and gentlemen, at this international holocaust remembrance day ceremony, i stand here today in front of you to tell you: hitler did not win! the year is 1942. i am five years old. my mother, father and i are living in the warsaw ghetto. we are starving. in my innocence, i hoped that it was all temporary. i wanted to believe that someone would say ‘abracadabra’ and i would be back in my own rightful home, comfortable and secure, surrounded by my family’s love. but that was only a child’s dream. moving to the ghetto was only the beginning of our nightmare. the seeds of genocide had already been planted in 1939 with the poison of nazism invading poland. when we were forcibly moved into the ghetto, survival was the only thing that mattered. the conditions in the ghetto were awful. i was cold, i was barefoot, i was hungry. i was afraid to look into the eyes of a stranger. my mother and i often went to scavenge for food while my father would stay in our tiny apartment. on one of these outings, as my mother was holding me tight, i noticed a dirty, raw potato that had fallen off a food cart. i picked it up, i gave it to my mother; she cleaned it with her skirt, she broke it in half for me to eat. i ate it with delight. i still remember its taste. it was delicious. the second half of the potato, i expected my mother to eat herself, since she was just as hungry as i was. but she waited. she waited until i finished savouring the first half and gave me the second half. i’m telling you this to show you that a mother’s love is unconditional. on another afternoon, while my mother and i were again searching the streets for spare bits of food, we heard bloodcurdling screams coming in the direction of our cramped ‘apartment’. my mother yanked my little arm and took off running in the direction of the screams. she dashed up the stairs of our building, fighting her way through a crowd of people, and once we were there on the landing, the crowd was even thicker. but through the open door we could see a body – a body sprawled on the kitchen floor. it was my father, in his ratty dress shirt and his shlaikes, or suspenders, lying there, bleeding from a gash on the side of his throat. mother dragged me with her. she threw herself and me on top of his limp body and screamed, sobbing inconsolably. i was scared. she kept an iron grip on me as we huddled together as a family for one last time. my elbow had nowhere to go except into a pool of my father’s blood. we stayed there for what felt like an eternity. finally, somebody pulled me away and took me out of the room. i remember then feeling relieved, but that would be the last time i ever saw my father. shortly after that horrific day, mother and i set out to find some food. only on this day, something felt different. she was carrying a large black bag and she let me take my doll, my beloved laleczka. she seemed to be going somewhere with a purpose, with urgency, with a plan. suddenly she pulled open a sewer cover and tossed me down the sewer. it was dark, it was dirty, it was wet, it was awful. and all i could see, all i could feel, was the stream of smelly water splashing against me. i clutched my beloved laleczka and waited for my mother to join me. my eyes slowly but surely adjusted to the darkness, and i saw the grimy tunnel all around me. and the rats – there were lots, lots, lots, lots of rats. they were jumping. they were jumping on my head, on my face. they were in my hair and they were jumping on my poor laleczka. my mother pushed me from behind to move us through the foul gutter. not only was it soggy, but there was a tremendous stench. we were crossing the sewer for the entire ghetto area of warsaw. 80 years later, i can remember the stench like it was yesterday. i clutched my travel companion, my beloved laleczka, close to my chest. i told her to be strong, but neither she nor i were immune to the horrific conditions in the sewer. she was more than my precious doll, she was my best friend, and even she was not safe in this hell on earth. then, as quickly and forcefully as it had begun, the pushing from behind suddenly stopped. my mother scrambled upward. somehow, she found a grate. she hoisted me up and then came out of the sewer herself. to this day, i still wonder, how did she know how far we had to go in order to emerge outside of the ghetto walls? we were now on the arian side of warsaw, where jews were absolutely forbidden to be. my mother, a pretty woman, was blonde and blue-eyed, and could pass as a non-jew. she had friends from earlier years who were willing to employ her in their homes, even though this was dangerous for them. now, in this situation, she could provide food for herself and for me. however, taking me along required that i be hidden in closets. from that moment on, i became what is known as a ‘holocaust hidden child’. i was given a potty for my laleczka and for myself, and my mother came by every once in a while with food and a kiss, and to tell me how much she loved me. i spent hours and hours in dark closets talking to my laleczka. we comforted each other. we hugged each other. she was my hiding place companion. i asked her over and over again, what did i do wrong? why am i being punished? i felt guilty, guilty of something, but of what i did not know. my mother told me that if i behaved, if i would not call her, if i would not complain, if i would not make any noise, all this would soon be over and then we could go out to the park to play again. ladies and gentlemen, consider for a moment: what my mother was telling me was that the end of the war depended on my being good. could i really be responsible for ending the war? after several years of hiding and running, running to new places to stay one step ahead of the gestapo, the war was finally over – i must have been very, very, very good! we searched for surviving relatives and eventually we made our way to paris. my mother found a job in a hotel, but there was no place for me there. so she sent me to an orphanage, le manoir de denouval, in andrésy, established by the commission centrale de l’énfance created by the union des juifs pour la résistance et l’entraide. all the children in there were french orphans whose parents had been deported to death camps. i was the only polish child. i was also the only child with the mother, so she became everybody’s mother. at the manoir, i learned for the first time to read and write. i was then nine years old. thank you, france, for having provided me with a refuge at a crucial time in my life. there were so many questions i wanted to ask my mother, who was my saviour, and who gave me life over and over again. she died in the spring of 1948, before i was able to ask, and i then became a full orphan. prior though, to her sudden heart attack, she had one last plan. she made arrangements, for her and for me, to live with her favourite niece, whose family had found a new life in lima, peru. fela topilsky and her husband michal had the generosity to take me in, gave me love and allowed me to start a new life in the safety of their home, together with their children, marcel and sonia. i am forever thankful and grateful for their love and generosity. they helped make me the person that i am today, and i tried to show that i deserved their caring by being, of course, the best student, the best i could be. later, i earned a scholarship to university in the united states. peru provided me with an environment in which i could evolve from a hidden refugee child to an adolescent with hopes and dreams for the future. thank you, peru. my mother’s foresight, even after she was no longer with me, is a beacon of light that has stayed with me throughout my life. i went to new york to study and, eventually, from there, made aliah to israel. israel became my country. i had the privilege to contribute to the education of generations of students at the hebrew university of jerusalem during the 40 years i taught applied linguistics there. i was blessed with the opportunity to have children and grandchildren, and i did the very thing hitler tried so hard to prevent. but hitler did not win. allow me to present to you my victory: my son, david, and my daughter, illana. would the two of you please stand up? my son, david, is a doctor. in 2006, he was seriously injured while serving in the idf when he joined a paratrooper unit that was attacked. he overcame his injuries and founded an emerging biotech company that is in the process of developing an innovative device to reduce newborn mortality by delaying or preventing premature births. his wife, rotem, is an intensive care nurse who treats seriously injured patients of all races and religions. she has been working non-stop since 7 october. they have three children: 13-year-old nevo, gifted in mathematics, who just celebrated his bar mitzvah at the wailing wall; 10-year-old omer, who is an artistic gymnast and aspires to be an olympic medallist; and doron, the seven-year-old, who regularly charms all of us. my daughter, illana, is a senior social worker and trauma specialist in the municipality of shoham. since the unprovoked attack on israel on 7 october, she has been on the frontline of the war at home, leading support groups to help the community deal with the trauma of the war. helping families of hostages who have been released back home, and helping those that are still waiting for their loved ones to come back. illana’s husband, assaf, is an expert on law and psychiatry. he immediately volunteered to join his reserve unit on 7 october. they share four children. yarden, aged 20, is doing his military service, as are almost all 20 year olds in israel. he’s a soldier in an elite unit and we pray every day, we pray for his safe return home. yahel, 15, was one of several thousand students who was accepted into an elite boarding school in haifa, and she’s interested in maths and biology, and hopes to become a doctor. shirah, 13, loves skating and participates in national competitions. and the last one, ivri, 11, is a good student, has a wonderful sense of humour, and is a competitive swimmer. my grandchildren have their whole future in front of them, and it breaks my heart to see them growing up in war. i hoped, and i believed – i did believe – that i had paid the price. and yet, my grandchildren must fight to defend their right to life in a jewish state. unfortunately, as i stand here before you, i have left my country in the wake of violence, murder, rape and terror. after more than 100 days, there’s still 136 kidnapped hostages, dead or alive, in the hands of the terrorists. friends, i ask for your solidarity and your support to see those hostages reunited with their families. the entire country yearns to have them back alive. help bring them back alive! sadly, after 7 october, the resurgence of anti-semitism means that the hate of the past is still with us. jews are again not feeling safe living in europe. after the holocaust, this should be unacceptable. ‘never again’ should truly mean never again. i am now 86 years old. when i was born, europe was still a collection of states with major grievances against each other. europe was able, in the meantime, to set aside old hatred and come together. i truly believe that the values that inspired the european unity – respect for diversity, respect for freedom of religion, and the ability to live together in peace – have an important role to play in the future of the middle east. i have a dream. in my dream, my children, all children, live in a peaceful middle east, one that is free of hate, especially towards us, the jews. in my dream, the jews find safety and security anywhere – anywhere they choose to call home – and anti-semitism is finally a thing of the past. i won against hitler. i am finally home. but my grandchildren must now fight for its survival. i call upon you, the parliament of europe, to help my dream come true. together, only together with you, we can end anti-semitism and achieve lasting peace. thank you. gracias. merci. dziekuje. danke. gracie. obrigada. (loud and sustained applause)
thank you, irene. i would ask all colleagues to join me and stay standing for a minute of silence. (the house observed a minute’s silence)for the final part of the ceremony, i would invite ms sheva tehoval and mr marcelo nisinman to close our ceremony with ‘kaddish’ by maurice ravel. (ms sheva tehoval, soprano, and mr marcelo nisinman, bandoneon, performed ‘kaddish’ by maurice ravel) (sustained applause)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the conclusions of the european council meetings, in particular the special european council meeting of 1 february 2024 (2024/2525(rsp)).
president of the european council. madam president of the european parliament, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, determination, unity and leadership is the message of the european council at its last two meetings, during which two major decisions were taken. the first, in december, was the decision to open negotiations with ukraine and moldova, to grant candidate status to georgia and to make progress with the western balkans. the second, most recently taken a few days ago at the last european council meeting, was the decision to allocate €50 billion to support ukraine's macro-financial development over the next four years. this decision was taken on 27 may and within the framework of the european budget. this double decision shows that we are determined not to be intimidated by russia, which has decided to violently, abruptly violate ukraine's sovereignty and international law and which is attacking our most fundamental democratic values. our decision is not to be intimidated and to be determined to support ukraine as long as it is needed. because we understand that supporting ukraine means supporting the future of the ukrainian people, but also our own security and prosperity. i want to say this here with great solemnity to those who, from time to time, try to instill doubt or suspicion: every european euro mobilized to support ukraine is a euro invested for our own security and our own prosperity. it is a euro invested in the stability of the european union. the european council's decision also sends a message to all those who, like us, believe in democratic values and in the values of freedom. it is also a message to our partners, who stand by us to support ukraine and ukrainians. i would like to take this opportunity to make a solemn appeal to the house of representatives of the united states to ensure that the 60 billion dollars needed to ensure financial stability in ukraine can be quickly unlocked. finally, dear friends, this european council deliberation also focused on other common priorities for the future of the european union. we wanted to identify the additional €14 billion spent on external migration management and competitiveness and technology issues, but also on the capacity to respond in solidarity to natural disasters, defence and interest-raising issues, which have implications for the european budget. i would like to address another very important topic for the coming months and this is military support for ukraine. we all understand and we had an in-depth debate on this topic that it is urgent to support ukraine with more weapons, with more ammunition, with more air defense systems. we made a promise to ukraine: more ammunition, 1 million rounds, and we must deliver on this fundamental promise that we made all together in the european council. finally, remember that we had decided to put in place a new tool, a new mechanism: the european peace facility. and this mechanism is extremely useful to support ukraine. you've used it a lot. but we feel it is necessary to reform this mechanism. and based on the proposal put on the table by the high representative, we have decided to continue to make more progress. it will be needed, probably, to add more money into this mechanism. it will also be necessary, i think, to shift from a reimbursement approach which was the basis of this mechanism to a more joint procurement approach, with the aim of supporting more of our european defence, on the one hand, but also to be more effective, more rapid in our support for ukraine. another important topic we have discussed many times in the past, including in this chamber, is the frozen assets. and here we have made significant progress and have asked our ministers to continue and finalise the work on this important topic. and finally, once again, we think that we must not give up and we must do everything possible to make it possible for us to prevent russia from circumventing our sanctions. ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, we had another in-depth debate during this european council last week and it is about the middle east. we also held a key strategic debate on a dramatic subject, namely the situation in the middle east. of course, once again, with the utmost solemnity, i want to reiterate our strong condemnation of this brutal, hateful and disgusting attack by hamas on 7 october. i would like to reaffirm our call once again for the release of all prisoners without preconditions. three points were the subject of our strategic discussions. the first is the need to do everything possible to avoid regional escalation. it is a threat, a danger that is on the horizon and with a very serious and serious incidents, especially in the red sea. it's a security issue. it is also a problem which could have major economic consequences for the world if no action is taken. you know that the high representative is working closely with many european countries and partners to mobilise to reduce this risk of regional escalation. the second point, very naturally, and no one can stand idly by, is the humanitarian situation. every civilian life counts and every civilian life must be respected. international law, to avoid double standards, means to be very firm and very determined on the issue of access to humanitarian aid, food, medicine, fuels and basic necessities. it is essential that we continue to work with partners and with all those who support this difficult work in the field. then, of course, several of the colleagues at the table reported on this serious involvement of a number of unrwa staff. these are extremely shocking facts, and i mean that we have a responsibility to support the investigations that have been launched under the auspices of the united nations, independently, so that the light is shed. but we must also remember that unrwa has 13,000 staff working in the field to provide essential and extremely valuable humanitarian work. finally, the third point i wish to mention, which has been discussed in depth with the colleagues, is perhaps a central subject on which more work will be needed in the coming months. the european union has never been wrong, never hesitated, even when in the past some of our partners had doubts about the two-state solution. we have always been consistent and consistent on the subject. it is absolutely essential that we engage. the high representative, josep borrell, made proposals in a roadmap containing a number of elements. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights in the field of social security. i believe that our ambition must be to work for a peace process so that there is peace between israel and palestine, but also between israel and the arab countries in the region. finally, i conclude by thinking about this as a european, because our dna is based on international cooperation and on the idea that there is international law with principles and rules that apply to each and every one of us in the world. i think it is important that we do not misrepresent it and that we are always extremely firm in supporting the principle of international law, to support also the idea that there can be no double standards. because accepting double standards is accepting a form of renunciation and it is also accepting a form of loss of influence. but our influence is also a measure of our ability to be consistent and consistent with ourselves. finally, ladies and gentlemen, there is one last point i would like to mention, which was not formally on the agenda of the european council, but which has led us to exchange views on the situation of agriculture and farmers throughout europe. farmers, particularly in several european countries, have expressed anxiety, anger and concern. it is our responsibility to listen, to hear and to see how we can provide satisfactory and convincing answers to this call from farmers everywhere in europe. farmers are key players, key players for our food security and sovereignty, key players also for climate change. farmers deserve to be respected for the enormous work they do in our service. the question of fair income, the question of efforts to reduce these paperwork and the bureaucracy that stifles them, the question of fair play rules, that is, the principle that the same standards must apply to each other: these elements require that we remain extremely active. i am convinced that the european parliament is extremely sensitive to this. we welcome the first short-term measures, particularly on shrimp, announced by the european commission and we are convinced that we will have to continue this dialogue with all actors in the agricultural sector and, more broadly, the agri-food sector. we also support the principle of setting up a working group, a round table, which will continue to promote dialogue on this essential and strategic issue in the coming weeks. the european council had the opportunity to recall its commitment to the common agricultural policy and its essential role at european level. as you can see, the european council intends to assume its responsibility more than ever: to be the guarantor and guardian of european unity. it is a job that sometimes requires a lot of effort, a lot of perseverance. it's a job that sometimes isn't spontaneous immediately, but notice that in a few weeks we managed to forge this unit of 27 around core topics. building strategic autonomy, building european sovereignty, is not a discourse, it is one act after another by each of us to enable us to move the european project towards more influence, more resilience, more capacity to defend our interests, and this by forging it on the values that bring us together, those values of personal dignity, freedom and democracy. what unites us on ukraine, on enlargement issues, on middle east issues and on agricultural issues is the desire for a strong europe that meets the expectations of our citizens. a strong europe, capable of meeting the challenges of this world and of this moment.
president of the commission. – madam president, dear roberta, mr president, dear charles, honourable members. much of the attention around the special european council has indeed focused on our eur 50 billion ukraine facility, and rightly so. we are providing ukraine not only with the funding to keep the economy running, but also with strong predictability for the next four years. this parliament has backed our proposal from the very beginning. today, i would like to thank you for your unwavering support. this is what it means to stand with ukraine for as long as it takes. with your approval, we will be able to make important payments to ukraine as early as march. as we will discuss ukraine in the next debate, allow me to focus on other topics of the special european council. the special european council also agreed on the first ever – and i emphasise, the first ever – revision of our multiannual budget. it confirmed the priorities that the commission presented back in june, and i am very satisfied that we got 80 % of the funding we had asked for. we had certainly some difficult choices to make, but we have a very good result now. we will now be able to step up our fight against irregular migration and better protect our external borders. we now have the means to engage even more with the countries of the southern neighbourhood, and i am very glad that the growth plan for the western balkans is now on a solid financing footing. we will also be able to improve our response to natural disasters in member states and to humanitarian crises, such as gaza. with the strategic technologies for europe platform (step), we will support critical technologies that are made in europe. with this agreement, europe has the financial resources to tackle some of the main challenges of this decade. i would like to thank the european parliament for its support so far. of course, i count on your agreement. honourable members, while the european council was in session, farmers from across europe were taking to the streets. many of them feel pushed into a corner. farmers are the first in line to feel the effects of climate change. droughts and floods have destroyed their harvests and threatened their livestock. farmers are feeling the impact of the russian war – inflation, the rising cost of energy and the rising cost of fertilisers. nevertheless, they work hard every day to produce the quality food we eat, and for this we owe them appreciation, thanks and respect. it is true that issues have escalated in recent years. our farmers deserve to be listened to. i know that they are worried about the future of agriculture and about their future as farmers, but they also know that agriculture needs to move to a more sustainable model of production so that their farms remain profitable in the years to come. we want to make sure that the farmers remain in the driving seat in this process. this is why we launched the strategic dialogue on the future of agriculture in the european union. we have invited a broad scope of representatives of the farming sectors, the young farmers, the rural communities, the seed and fertiliser industry, the food sector, the processing sector, but also the financial sector, the cooperative banking sector, the consumers and environmental groups, and, of course, science. we need to analyse the situation together, to share ideas and, most importantly, to develop scenarios for the future. we need to move beyond a polarised debate and to create trust. trust is the crucial basis for viable solutions. there is a lot at stake for all of us. our european food production system is unique. the products in our supermarkets reflect the variety of our cultures and traditions. europe has the healthiest and the highest—quality food in the world, thanks to our farmers, who play a central role in this system. of course, they must be paid fairly for that. it is true that we provide huge support to this sector; our common agricultural policy is supported massively by the eu budget. money is important, but it is not everything. healthy natural resources are also key to maintaining high yields, and fertile soils have always been the backbone of our farmers’ livelihoods. we know that 60 to 70 % of soils in europe are now in poor condition. we can reverse these trends, and many farmers are doing precisely that, but we need to do more now. effective nature protection must offer generous incentives for intervening. farmers need a worthwhile business case for nature—enhancing measures. perhaps we have not made that case convincingly. a real incentive that goes beyond mere loss of yields is required. public subsidies can provide those incentives and, for example, premium labelling, in cooperation with retailers and processors. in other words, nature conservation can only be successful through a bottom—up and incentive—based approach. only if our farmers can live off their land will they invest in the future, and only if we achieve our climate and environmental goals together will farmers be able to continue to make a living. our farmers are well aware of this, and we should place more trust in them. let me give you one example. the commission proposed the sustainable use regulation (sur), which has the worthy aim of reducing the risks of chemical plant protection products. however, the sur proposal has become a symbol of polarisation. it has been rejected by the european parliament, and there is no progress anymore in the council either, so we have to do something. that is why i will propose to the college the withdrawal of this proposal. however, the topic stays, and in order to move forward, more dialogue and a different approach are needed. on this basis, the commission could make a new proposal with much more mature content and with the stakeholders together. honourable members, the months ahead will not be easy, but we have an important opportunity now. it is clear to everyone in this house that our agri—food sector – beginning with the farms – needs long—term prospects and a willingness to listen to each other and to look for common solutions. we need to avoid the blame game and to find solutions for problems together. the report from the strategic dialogue of the future on agriculture in the european union is to be tabled by late summer, and it will be enormously important. the results and the recommendations from this dialogue will be discussed in parliament and with the member states, and they will form the foundation of our future agricultural policy.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president of the european parliament, president of the european commission, president of the european council, traditionally, a debate about the outcome of a european council meeting is a moment of criticism. i have to be honest. ‘it’s too slow, it’s too little, it’s too chaotic’. today, i want to start with a ‘thank you’ because thanks to all the engagements, we achieved the result, we showed unity and we also didn’t allow viktor orbán to blackmail the whole european union. so the result of last week is a good one. there was no option to fail again. and you managed to succeed. the european council gave a green light to a recovery plan for ukrainian people. a recovery plan to rebuild the destroyed villages. a recovery plan to put nurses and doctors in hospitals and teachers in schools. a recovery plan to build rehabilitation centres for wounded ukrainians. and a recovery plan to help ukraine to do all the key reforms for their european future. and i want to thank all of you for contributing to this. just as also the commission president did four years ago with the european recovery plan to unite europe again, to bring europe on one line, one voice and one goal, ukraine will win the war and become a new member. and i want to thank ursula for her leadership in this regard. orbán came back to budapest empty handed, or, i still hope, convinced a little bit that threats do not work. the only possible way for him to achieve anything is to work with europe, not against europe. and let me also thank in this regard the strong leadership and determination of donald tusk. i think it was important last week to have him there and to show a clear direction. ladies and gentlemen, that is what we achieved now. i was two weeks ago in kyiv, and what i took away from kyiv is that they respect and welcome what we are doing there. it gives them hope. it gives them motivation. but they still need a lot from us. and the most important thing they need is the weapons, the ammunition. we have to be faster. we have to deliver all the taurus missiles from germany. the end of this war will only come with weapons. only weapons will shorten the war. only weapons will tell putin: ‘stop! it makes no sense’. europe’s economy is ten times bigger than russia’s economy. that’s why we can be successful if we are united and strong. meine sehr verehrten damen und herren, lassen sie mich noch einen zweiten punkt heute einbringen, und zwar die diskussion, die uns unsere bauern auf den straßen europas auf den weg geben. ich möchte ursula von der leyen heute danken für die botschaften, die sie an die bäuerinnen und bauern europaweit gegeben hat. wir als europäische volkspartei verstehen uns als die bauernpartei europas. ich erlebe, dass jetzt viele versuchen, sich als bauernvertreter zu profilieren. ich darf daran erinnern, dass wir vor gut neun monaten hier im europäischen parlament debatten dazu hatten, bauern bereits hier vor diesem plenum demonstriert haben. ich war draußen. ich habe damals mit den bauern gesprochen, wie viele kolleginnen und kollegen meiner fraktion. wir wurden damals im plenum beschimpft als bauernlobbyisten – als bauernlobbyisten, die hier nur ihre interessen vertreten. wir haben nur eines gefordert, nämlich: hört zu, nehmt die bauern ernst! und dafür wurden wir beschimpft. uns war immer klar: bauern sind bürger, und sie wollen keine linke ideologie. sie wollen ernst genommen werden. sie wollen beteiligt werden, und sie wollen gute politik. und gute politik startet aus unserer sicht mit zuhören, mit ernstnehmen. und als europäische volkspartei können wir auch bilanz ablegen. die verbindliche flächenstilllegung im rahmen der nature-restoration-law-gesetzgebung hätte weniger nahrungsmittelproduktion in europa bedeutet. sie ist jetzt vom tisch. und auch die europäische union, die heute schon hohe umweltauflagen hat, wurde mit dem sur-vorschlag, mit der sur-verordnung, die reine prozentuale kürzungen vorgesehen hat – eine nicht sinnvolle regulatorik wäre auf unsere bauern zugekommen. und dank auch der arbeit der evp ist diese vorlage jetzt vom tisch. wir wollen artenschutz, wir wollen vorankommen, aber gemeinsam mit den bauern. unsere bauern in europa sind keine umweltsünder – nein, sie lieben unsere natur und kennen sie besser als viele. unsere bauern sind keine tierschänder – nein, sie arbeiten jeden tag mit ihren tieren. unsere bauern sind keine agrarlobbyisten – nein, sie helfen den ländlichen räumen, eine lebenswerte region zu sein. und dafür sagen wir als europäische volkspartei: danke! alle bauern können sich sicher sein, dass wir auch in zukunft die bauernpartei europas sind. wir stehen an eurer seite.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, the financial assistance to ukraine of 50 billion euros until 2027 is a big step. a big step for the ukrainian people and the european union. ten years after the maidan revolution and two years after the invasion of russia, it is right to honour the european aspiration of the ukrainian people not only with the status of candidate of the union, but with a fundamental help to ensure ukrainian resistance in the midst of the counter-offensive. helping ukraine is not only fair for a people who are fighting for peace, security and the prosperity of their children; the european union is also interested in showing that the delusional dreams of old empires are being answered firmly and unitedly. that is why we must continue to increase the production capacity of ammunition, an ammunition indispensable to stop putin's war today, and also to prevent similar aggressions tomorrow. at a time when the biden administration is facing serious problems approving a new aid package, we are sending a clear message to the world: we stand with the ukrainian people until they realize their aspirations to be a free and sovereign country and decide their own future. if we have responded with firmness and unity to putin, we must show the same firmness and unity to mr netanyahu's blind violence. now that the hague court demands measures from israel to prevent genocide, the european union is obliged to speak with one voice to demand a ceasefire in gaza. the cost of our disunity is the pain and suffering of human beings in the strip. the decision by several countries to suspend contributions to unrwa condemns the safe death of hundreds of thousands of innocent people with no more horizon than bombing and misery, goes against the minimum humanitarian spirit and assumes the most radical speech of the netanyahu government in equating the gaza population with hamas. this is no time to impose unjust punishment on innocent civilians. it is time to join forces to end the war, alleviate the humanitarian situation, prevent regional escalation, free hostages, strengthen the palestinian authority and begin the reconstruction of gaza and the communities in southern israel under attack by hamas. at the same time, it is time to hold as soon as possible an international conference culminating in the palestinian state, as josep borrell's plan suggests. because only with a palestinian state will there be peace and security in the middle east. the impact on purchasing power of all these crises, the war in ukraine and gaza, compels us to continue building a europe of opportunity. because history has shown us that inequality is incompatible with well-being, nor is it compatible with coexistence and peace. we must therefore support the fundamental policies of the european union; we must complete the reform of tax rules to maintain and strengthen quality public services; we must approve all the issues that are on the table right now, and we must create a permanent investment instrument to finance the 620 billion annual green transition and the other 125 billion annual digital transformation. tomorrow we will discuss the situation of the agricultural sector in the european union. but let me say one thing, mr weber: it does the agricultural sector a small favor by trying to defend a sector. the agricultural sector in europe will have a future if we work together and together to ensure this future, and what is not acceptable is to use the crisis and suffering of a sector in a partisan and electoral way. because, of course, there are problems and we must tackle them together, and responsibilities, which are also joint. or did the european people's party vote against the current cap reform? or has the european people's party voted against all the policies that the agricultural sector is criticizing today? let us be more responsible, let us be serious, let us sit down, let us seek answers, let us seek solutions, but let us not use the suffering of a sector for our own good. once again, the unity of democratic forces has demonstrated our ability to reach historic agreements at decisive moments. we're going to show the autocrats that we're not just the biggest single market in the world. because we are, above all, a community of values, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, it’s true, last week was a good week for europe, but after the european council meeting, i honestly ask myself ‘why only now?’ all of this could have already been done in december. if there is one lesson to draw from this meeting, i think it is pretty clear that orbán alone is weaker than the 26 together. this might seem like an obvious information, but apparently it did not reach the 26 eu leaders before last week. for the future, colleagues, and also to the eu leaders, let us not run into these situations again and again and again. the 26 must find the courage to take away the possibility from orbán to pull stunts against european interests while destroying democracy in hungary. the case for the article 7 procedure has been made many times now. we have no time to lose, colleagues. let us make sure that it is used: to defend the rule of law and fundamental rights; to stand up for the values laid out in article 2; and, especially now, to make the european union be ready to act in a changing world full of insecurities. if we run into blackmail vetoes every single time we have to stand by a close ally or we have to act swiftly to defend european interests, it will weaken all of us. this is even more true with regards to ukraine, to which we owe our unity and reliable support. ukraine defends our freedom in europe. it defends it against russia, a brutal aggressor in the east. we cannot let them wait again like we did this time. this is why now is the moment to do what we should have done for a long time already: to go further on the article 7 procedure. und zuletzt: herr weber, in einer sache sind wir uns einig: wir nehmen die sorgen der europäischen bäuerinnen und bauern sehr ernst. ich war im letzten sommer auch vor dem europäischen parlament und habe mit den bauern gesprochen. aber eine sache ist mir wichtig: wir grüne, wir sagen seit jahren, dass die europäische agrarpolitik, wie wir sie seit jahrzehnten führen, nicht nachhaltig ist – nicht für den planeten und auch nicht für die bäuerinnen und bauern selber. das sehen wir an den zahlen. deshalb lassen sie uns jetzt keine populistischen debatten führen, sondern lassen sie uns gemeinsam schauen, wie wir die probleme und die sorgen der bäuerinnen und bauern in europa gemeinsam adressieren können, während wir natürlich weiterhin dafür kämpfen, dass es klimaschutz und artenschutz gibt. ich würde sagen, jetzt ist zeit zu handeln, nicht, sich gegenseitig zu beschimpfen.
on behalf of the ecr group, the european council agreed to release additional aid to ukraine through the adjustment of the mff. that's a very good case. but let's be clear right now: that 50 billion won't be enough. ukraine's non-military budgetary needs amounted to at least 3 billion a month. if the eu and the us each meet half of these needs as agreed we will be short of at least 5 billion a year for our part. and we all know what the cards are today in the united states for additional support for ukraine. we will therefore have to continue to evaluate this aid for the future and to see if additional financing mechanisms are possible, for example through russian funds. i do not advocate at all confiscating these funds, which are worth 200 billion, but using them as collateral for a rolling loan of 150 billion for ukraine. the proceeds of the 200 billion can then be used to finance the interest on that loan. this has the advantage of ukraine being able to rely on stable and sustainable financial support. moreover, you are creating an incentive for mr putin to stop atrocities and violence. i would like to ask for a thorough review of the use of the resources, both for the aid package which is being presented and for any future initiatives. we must not be naive in that regard, despite the situation in ukraine today. all these measures should also encourage us to look at things more broadly. it's not enough to put out fires again and again. we must invest more in defence throughout europe. the commission has not yet decided on the basis of the budgetary procedure.
on behalf of the id group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european council in brussels on 1 february will be the first time that europeans will remember the farmers' demonstration before the european parliament. they will remember that while european farmers were shouting their rightful anger, emmanuel macron and his counterparts were stabbing them in the back by providing 50 billion euros of aid to ukraine, including eight financed by france, when our peasants would need it. i would remind you that the european union signed a free trade agreement with ukraine in 2022 which saw ukrainian wheat and chicken flood european markets and create totally unfair competition. unfortunately, the beneficiaries of this aid are only a handful of ukrainians, who are oligarchs, who monopolize agricultural trade in ukraine, and corrupt people, who have already embezzled tens of millions of euros. on 1 february the european council sacrificed our peasants on the altar of free trade. to save our farmers, an agricultural exception should have been introduced, which would have been the result of the free trade agreements, which would have renegotiated the ideological and punitive measures of the green pact, which would have banned the import of foreign products not in conformity with our standards and eliminated over-transpositions of legislation.
in the name of the left faction. i am not going to say anything. the war in ukraine has been going on for almost two years now, and every day innocent civilians are dying, soldiers on both sides, as a result of the ongoing russian invasion. and a lot has changed in the last two years in the lives of europeans. in addition to the continuing high prices of energy and the increasing cost of food, fear and concern about the further escalation and spread of this war have entered european everyday life. the military counter-offensive of ukraine last year has failed. even the commander-in-chief saluschnyj is now openly saying that the military situation is similar to the positions wars of the first world war, and thus he is publicly contradicting the success stories of his president selensky. all this shows that this war cannot be won militarily but must be ended diplomatically. and i'm telling you this right here, this is what my faction in this house has been telling you for two years: we must now finally have a joint european diplomatic offensive to end this war and to fight for peace. and that also means that you must be honest, mrs von der leyen, and you must also, mr michel, and talk about security guarantees for both sides. i have a question for all those who think that more and more money for weapons, dear colleague weber, dear colleague iratxe garcía pérez, will bring peace. do you really think you are so naive, dear colleagues, to believe that this would not lead to the russian side reacting and investing more and more money in this war? but it is not about investing in war, it is about investing in peace. it is not about investing in arms and militarization, but about winning peace, not war. it is a mockery to want to spend more and more money on weapons and loosen them up, and to preach discipline and force people to tighten their belts. the last thing the european union needs now is self-imposed cuts, which were also discussed again at the council. the policy pursued by the german federal government is the bullet that it wants to impose in europe as a whole, and it is a dangerous one because it deprives us of our ability to tackle social inequality, economic inequality and climate change. in the end, it is this policy that favours the rise of the far right. so let's forge a european pact that will enable us to ensure full employment, fight social inequality and tackle climate change. the future is not in the arms race, but in investing for people and our planet.
madam president, the problem with orbán’s routine blackmail of the eu institutions for his political agenda is not only that he delays and waters down much-needed policies, such as the ukraine facility, and it’s not only that the citizens of hungary see their rights violated. the main problem with the cowardice of the council when it comes to applying article 7 once and for all in the face of blatant violations of human rights is that it gives incentives to other member states to violate rights within their borders. they know nothing will happen to them. why would it, if orbán can blackmail us with no consequence? spain is the case in point. for years all of you have looked the other way before the violations of our rights as catalans. if orbán sets the bar of what is acceptable, you are degrading all of our institutions to the level of his blackmail.
madam president, dear colleagues, at this point, council meetings look outright absurd. another summit, another orbán veto threat. and like every narcissist, he enjoys his photo ops with important people and tries to squeeze some money out of them. then he folds, just like a cheap lawn chair, under pressure, just like he always does, and he drops his shameful veto until the next round. this is a deeply broken system, and i would certainly laugh at it were it not quite literally a matter of life and death. ukrainians are sacrificing everything on the battlefield, not only for their future, but also for europe’s security. and for a month, the council was stuck on a package equivalent to 0.08% of our yearly gdp. this should be a no brainer. not just morally speaking, but logically too. we will have to pay so much more if ukraine loses the war. we have to get out of these endless rounds of summits and quick fixes are not enough. the only solution is to finally get rid of unanimous voting. and yes, it’s a hard political process, but no one has ever even tried to seriously put it on the table yet. except this parliament. we demand treaty change. our security is on the line.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. today we are discussing a particularly sensitive and divisive issue. we insist that each member state should be free to decide what technology it wants to grow on its territory. this is a sovereignty issue, we're not gonna let it go. the current proposal of the european parliament needs to be improved again, as organic farming must be clearly distinguishable from plants produced by new gene-treatment techniques. it is important to note that genetically modified crops have not been shown to be better than traditionally bred varieties in the area of climate change or food safety. transparency for european consumers is needed and therefore regulation is needed to clearly distinguish between plants produced by new gene-treatment techniques.
- your honor, the president. for weeks, thousands of farmers have been protesting across europe. the protests are a common starting point. farmers reject the measures of the brussels bureaucracy green deal, which are already an unacceptably heavy burden on agriculture. what's brussels' response to that? the commission proposes new targets for 2040 without prior impact assessments, despite the war and the poor economic outlook. in their latest announcement, they have also announced the green deal 2. i ask you, sir, after the decline of european industry, is agriculture coming next? thank you, but we're not asking for this. a climate policy of the union is needed that recognises that agriculture is a key sector of the european economy. it is very sad that the current leadership in brussels is ignoring the interests of the people. that's why we need change. this june, there's a change in brussels.
madam president, europe is at war with russia. it’s a hybrid warfare which primarily takes the form of disinformation. for almost a century, russia has been seeking to interfere in the affairs of europe, seeking ways to disrupt the world order. more recently, it has invested heavily into various parties on the extreme left and extreme right of the political spectrum in order to destabilise europe. the brexit campaign and trump’s victory overseas demonstrates the success of russian interference and the disruption and chaos it can cause. a new and frightening development today is the extent and efficiency with which russia relies on proxies, like mr orbán’s regime in hungary. the orbán government not only disseminates putin’s propaganda and blocks common european initiatives, but also interferes in various european elections to promote the illiberal cause – as has happened in france, slovakia, poland and slovenia, as well as in serbia, bosnia and herzegovina and north macedonia. it’s time we take the threat seriously.
the discovery of russian interference in our democratic processes, unfortunately, is no surprise. we already had an organized trade in influence, which was created by a group of socialists and under the famous name qatargate put us in an uncomfortable position to defend the reputation of parliament. now we are faced with a grumpy member of the green club, who, along with some well-known members of the far left, has used this house to destabilize european unity through russian propaganda. dear colleagues, i speak to you as a witness to the age of communism, the propaganda of that totalitarianism is like a venomous snake. that's why throughout my work i have continually called for the opening of the archives of the ude and kos, key to the historical truth of the former yugoslavia, which is still being glorified by someone, to finally illuminate this dark era of history. it's time to face and recognize everything that makes us vulnerable to the manipulation of the greatest living communist dictator, putin, who skillfully plays with all the activists of ideology, which still today leaves millions of victims. that's what stalin would be jealous of. people may be able to buy themselves, but the truth is not for sale. the road to it is a thorny one, but it's the only road to peace in this world.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. it was recently revealed that russian agents could have infiltrated the european parliament. russia is becoming more aggressive in european politics, and this year's european parliament elections are also targeted. there are many signs that behind populists in the union often lies russian money, russian influence, political influence. but it's much more dangerous than the european parliament representing russia if entire governments of member states work together in the interests of russia. the hungarian government regularly tries to justify russian interests in eu decision-making. he threatens to veto, blackmails, bargains for the russians' greatest pleasure. i ask all eu decision-makers not to take the russian-friendly minework of the hungarian government for granted. the vote on ukraine's support showed that there was a way to prevent pro-russian activity. let's learn from this and act together against populists who represent russian interests.
- your honor, the president. in hungary, almost half of 14-year-olds are functionally illiterate. i'm saying it differently: almost 50 percent of kids finish eighth grade thinking they don't actually understand what they're reading. and that dramatically deteriorated under the government of viktor orbán. ladies and gentlemen, what is this? we can talk about a european education space where we give all european children the same opportunity, but as long as there are governments in europe who see free education as a threat to them, every dollar they spend on education, every penny they miss, they miss where they want to steal, we will not succeed. so i suggest that if we have reached an agreement on a european minimum wage, if we have reached an agreement on a global minimum wage, if we have moved towards an energy union, and i could even list the foundations of a health union, then we should start talking about a european minimum wage so that every european child, including hungarian children, has the opportunity to live a happy and successful life.
in writing. the word crisis best describes the working conditions of teachers in hungary today. despite the loud promises, hungarian teachers are forced to face the terrible reality of low wages again and again. this only exacerbates the teacher shortage and contributes to the depletion of rural and disadvantaged students. this also seriously undermines the right of young people to equal education. the recently introduced 32.2% rate, but in reality a lower wage increase, although a significant advance, is not sufficient to meet the vision of a sustainable teaching profession. moreover, the increase in wages alone does not solve the serious infrastructure and professional shortcomings of the hungarian education system. low wages and the resulting teacher shortage are only one element of the hungarian education crisis. at least that's the problem with schools and teachers' almost complete lack of autonomy, over-centralization to the ends, and thus eliminating initiative and creativity from the system. the government's approach to national curriculum and teacher education reform, which excludes trade unions, also points to a worrying trend in terms of inclusion and quality. when we seek eu support for education reform, it is essential to create an environment that promotes teaching and learning, ensures an equal distribution of resources and promotes dialogue that involves all stakeholders in the development of a future-oriented education system.
