mr president, i think these files are really necessary and very important. reducing gas emissions has to be a key priority if we're going to save the planet. but i have to be honest and say it's very hard to take the eu's commitment seriously in this regard when it's 16 months since the nord stream 2 gas explosions. sixteen months since the biggest act of economic sabotage on eu infrastructure, releasing 15 million tonnes of co2 in six days, one third of the danish annual total, causing a massive toxicological disaster for the baltic area. and no one wants to know what happened. no urgency, no enthusiasm to follow up the leads about us or ukrainian involvement, filibustering and disruption of the investigation from the polish authorities. everybody knows these things are going on, so you can talk about your environmental commitments all you like, but the truth will out and your credibility is on the line by failing to investigate this.
mr president, fluorinated gases are supercharged greenhouse gases. their impact on the climate is often thousands of times more powerful than that of co2. f-gas emissions have increased by 60% since 1990, and it's well past time that we seriously tackle their use. the heat pump industry has expressed a lot of concern about this regulation. heat pumps are essential for europe's energy transition. in ireland, more than 80% of new homes built in the last number of years have heat pumps. the industry there is doing really well and should be commended, and we should of course listen to the concerns about availability of alternatives to f-gases. but there is an emergency brake in the regulation and, also, additional quota can be provided to heat pump manufacturers if shortages arise that might endanger the eu's heat pump installation targets. the eu now needs to give clear financial and political support to the heat pump sector, and since heat pumps are obviously the cleanest heating option, they should also be the most economically attractive to stimulate consumer demand.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the texts we are debating today, however technical, are very concrete examples of political battles and victories that have a real impact on the wallet of the citizens of the european union. as several academic studies over the past two years have pointed out, the rising energy and food prices that have led to inflation as we know it is not only the result of russian aggression in ukraine but also of excessive speculation and market manipulation by investors who are not concerned about the real impacts on the daily lives of citizens of the european union. what have been the concrete consequences of this inflation? abnormal energy bills, households unable to meet certain monthly payments and having to restrict themselves to live properly or, i would even say, just survive. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment. thus, in the event of rising prices of raw materials and energy on financial markets, market authorities will now have the full capacity to suspend transactions on these markets, thus avoiding sudden exponential inflation on basic necessities. similarly, the european commission can welcome revenue this year and next year from the rules applicable to the ancillary financial activities of large non-financial groups and position limits. we know the harmful consequences of excessive speculation in markets that enrich the richest but impoverish the poorest. in addition, our group has been fighting for years to increase transparency on financial markets, which is a necessary condition for their proper functioning, by creating a consolidated system of publications that makes market data available to all actors and accessible free of charge to individuals, ngos and academics. i would conclude by saying that, yes, the text is not perfect, but we hope that it will make a real difference to the wallet of our citizens.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. it is refreshing to finally speak on a subject on which we stand on the ground of common sense. the revision of the legislation on financial instruments markets will strengthen the position of investors and make it easier for firms to source from the capital market. corporate finance is largely done through bank lending in europe, capital markets are weaker than in america, and this is a distortion of competition. the investment in the digital and green transition is, however, enormous and requires private capital. the present proposal will help. during the negotiations, it was key to ensure that easier access to stock exchange information did not jeopardise the operation of the smaller exchange. the commission's proposal for a directive in an incomprehensible way favoured large, even non-european-owned providers and jeopardised the existence of a small, independent european exchange. fortunately, the council and parliament have adjusted this. thank you to the reporter. so we have a solution that is beneficial to everyone. moreover, transparency is enhanced by the prohibition that brokers cannot receive money for directing orders from customers to certain trading platforms. we are therefore taking an important step towards more transparent and accessible capital markets, but there is still much to be done to deepen the union of capital markets.
madam president, commissioner, we were just opening this plenary a few hours ago, paying tribute to jacques delors and his assets, among his assets, are driving the single market in the european union. simply because we respect their legacy, we must recognize that there are still specific markets in the union that are not yet sufficiently consolidated: one of them is the capital market. i would like to congratulate danuta hübner on her work which has led to the adoption of two regulations today to promote this union of capital markets, both from the retail point of view so that savers can have more and better information and, moreover, some activities which generated costs and provided little value are prohibited as a legislative proposal on how we should improve that capital market from the wholesale point of view. but even in the face of these agreements, we must recognize the work that still lies ahead. the next legislative term must be a key one for the union of capital markets, because we need much more funding to support the green transition, the digital transition and to continue to make efforts to improve this union, which we remembered today when we remembered jacques delors.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the commission. as my colleague karima, fictitious rapporteur on this delicate dossier, has said, the texts that have come out will indeed have a very concrete impact on the wallet of our fellow citizens, and we can congratulate ourselves on the victories of the ecologist family here. in my work on the econ committee of our institution, for several months, i have read and heard from experts and experts pointing to the role of unlimited speculation and market manipulation in the extreme price increases that we have seen since february 24, 2022 and the outbreak of this war by putin in ukraine. how many millions of the most vulnerable people have been forced to demand a scheduling of bills and have been forced not to heat themselves or cut their daily budgets so that they can pay their heating and electricity bills like last winter and this winter? according to the latest annual report by oxfam on inequality, 99% of the european population has been poor in the last three years. yes, 99% of the european population has become impoverished in the last three years. no, financial speculation is not the only cause of this inflation, but yes, it has played a role that no one can seriously deny. and yet this factor has been completely ignored by the european commission and has been simply ignored by the right-wing groups in this house, too busy defending the interests of big business. the provision made by my group in the circuit breaker, the ability given to market authorities to suspend transactions on products given in the event of significant volatility, allows to significantly mitigate this problem, if not completely eliminated. the issue is far from over, however, and much remains to be done. in our next term, we will be here to ensure that the large non-financial companies that act as unscrupulous speculators are indeed subject to the same rules as traders. as early as 2025, we will fight to build real barriers to speculation on raw materials. i therefore call on you, as my colleague karima, to support this text.
madam president, i think in some ways this regulation is a little bit like trying to close the stable door after the horse has bolted. in 2007, the markets in financial instruments directive introduced competition in the market of equity trading in line with the objectives of the european union, which made free movement of capital a fundamental freedom protected by the treaties. now this is neoliberalism unleashed. what did you actually expect would happen? it was inevitable that speculators were going to gamble on the markets in food and commodities, enabling them to make massive profits while pauperising and starving people in the process. we see the global food price crisis that we’ve witnessed, exacerbated by the war in ukraine, really exposing the real nature of our society, which puts financial interests before the economic well-being of citizens. and while we may try to curb that power here and introduce transparency, the truth is that casino capitalism is uncontrollable. you can’t keep a tiger as a pet. financial speculation is parasitic; it’s non-productive. it should be outlawed in totality. full stop!
madam president, in the last 20 years, beginning in the year 2000, there’s been a gradual deregulation of the financial markets worldwide, beginning with the united states, with the rest of the world, including the eu, following suit. this deregulation has continued at pace, notwithstanding the global financial crisis of 2008. the gradual encroachment of financial speculators into new domains, such as food, water and housing, and the financialisation of these areas has had a serious negative impact on society and needs to be addressed as a matter of urgency, with regulation now required. we are in this position because we have let hedge funds invest and speculate on the human rights of our citizens. grain, for example, can be sold 60 times on the market, and more sometimes, before it’s eventually used by people. in ireland, us vulture funds have garnered huge control of the housing supply at a terrible cost to the irish people, because the neoliberal irish government let them do so. this directive of the european parliament is a start, but we’ve a long way to go.
madam president, the houthis have made a humanitarian intervention in the red sea in an effort to bring the genocide in gaza to an end. the houthis have killed nobody while disrupting shipping in the red sea, ships which were facilitating the israeli genocide. the israeli regime has killed over 23 000 civilians. over 10 000 of them are children. so who do the us and the uk attack? no, they didn’t attack the israeli regime – because they're supporting the genocide. they attacked the houthis instead, killing at least six people. so western powers are prepared to kill people to protect the movement of goods, but the same western powers kill thousands with sanctions in iran, in syria, in venezuela, preventing the movement of some goods. the houthis are showing solidarity with the palestinian people, just like south africa did in the hague. but sadly the eu solidarity is with us empire and designers. shame on the eu!
madam president, every day now the mask falls further. on the very same day that the west's pet bulldog, israel, was hauled into the hague to face the charge of genocide in which eu countries are complicit, our so-called like minded partners, the us and britain, flout the un charter to commit their latest crime of aggression: illegal, unprovoked, unjustified airstrikes on yemen, lawless barbarous acts to inflame the region and to make worse the catastrophic cost of living crisis being experienced by millions of europeans. and now some of you actually want to join them! seriously, with a straight face, people have come in here and said they want to do that in order to uphold international law – the very same international law that a horrified world has watched being trampled into the ruins of gaza, while the eu hands israel more weapons and cheers on the genocide. the yemenis have killed no one and yet 25 000 palestinians are dead, and all you're enraged about is international shipping! it's over. the eu has no moral authority. if you want to sort the situation out, end the genocide!
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. the european labour authority is important if it is doing the right thing. we are seeing that there is a lot to do on the continent of europe, in our member states, and that it takes many hands to do the work, especially in times of economic crisis, even recession in some parts of europe. at the same time, we are experiencing a shortage of labour. there is no one solution, but many solutions are needed to tackle the labour shortage. this certainly includes improving working conditions for workers in all respects in financial terms, but also in structural terms, including childcare, care and the environment as a whole. this includes, of course, a withdrawal of irregular migration and the opportunity for legal labour migration for people who want and can integrate into our societies and who can tap into our labour markets. the international situation shows that competition with other parts of the world, where hard work is undoubtedly being done, is getting bigger and stronger. the demographic development, the population development, requires that what is possible in europe to maintain our prosperity, to preserve prosperity for future generations, so that social systems typical of europe in the world can be preserved that these opportunities are also used. if the labour agency contributes to this, it not only has a firm place in the european union, but it is an important pillar for now and for the future. if it becomes a bureaucratic apparatus, through overregulation and perhaps prohibition, then it is dangerous. and then we, as parliament, have to push a bar.
madam president, i think that the creation of the european labour authority (ela) in 2019, as we know, was intended to ensure that the eu rules on labour mobility and social security coordination would be applied fairly, simply and effectively. and while it’s still a relatively new organisation, i think we can say that that didn’t happen. and in some ways, it can’t really happen fully as long as neoliberalism remains as the dominant economic approach. i mean, you only have to look at sectors of our economy, such as aviation, where we know that the trade unions continue to be absolutely frustrated with the total inaction of the european commission, which is systematically refusing to assume its responsibility in this area and instead hiding behind national authorities denouncing complex labour market systems involving undeclared work, bogus self-employment, abuse of subcontracting letterbox companies and so on. we need cross-border cooperation. we need a stronger ela.
madam president, the persistence of complex labour market schemes involving undeclared work, abusive subcontracting, intermediaries and shell companies have had a severe impact on european workers, but none more so than on migrant workers. the european labour authority has done well so far to combat this through its cross-border actions, but it can do more if given the support of a stronger mandate. to do so, we need to extend the european labour authority’s scope to include the directives such as the seasonal workers directive, employers sanctions directive and the anti-trafficking directive. we also need to see stronger cooperation between the european labour authority and its social partners, such as trade unions and workers organisations. a line of communication should be established where social partners can submit cases and request investigations, with a regularly updated timeline of progress. this is an opportunity to improve the enforcement of workers’ rights.
mr president, the eu public procurement directives allow contracting authorities to promote social inclusion, the protection of the environment, and look to ensure the compliance of tender awards with social, labour and environmental legislation. however, even with these directives incorporated into law in the various member states, a public procurement process can result in disaster. in 2019, in the irish parliament, i highlighted several problems with the procurement process for the national children’s hospital. i showed how the costs were going to escalate off the richter scale. the hospital wouldn’t be built for 2.2 billion when it should have cost about half that, and that’s what’s happening. the government could have revisited the contract, but it refused for political reasons, at great cost to the irish people, i might say. the big contractor has robbed the people blind and it is just down to the incompetence of the politicians involved.
mr president, i think the title of this debate in some ways really sounds somewhat like a bit of a deluded fantasy when we all know that across europe, social rights and workers’ conditions are under assault like never before, and public procurement, far from being the great leveller, is actually a contributing factor to this inequality. it’s legitimised theft on a phenomenal scale. it’s not only that jobs are priced on the basis of bleeding workers dry, but also the projects themselves end up costing phenomenally more than they should do. contracts under eu rules mean driving out the small suppliers; the big boys move in, price the job too cheaply, and then add in clauses where they can ratchet up the costs later on. and as a result, as my colleague has said, we’ve a children’s hospital in ireland which is about to become the most expensive in europe, well over eur 2 billion, a metrolink project, 300 million without a track being laid. is it any wonder that the results came out today, that 1 % of the population own a third of the wealth, while the working poor continue to slave on?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 8 january in germany farmers expressed their revolt by blocking their country. they are protesting the government's decision to abolish the diesel subsidy they had previously received. but their discomfort is much deeper. what they are questioning, beyond this erasure, is the european union's free trade policy which jeopardizes their activities. this european dimension explains why the alsace farmers have given them their support. it also explains why farmers across france have been putting up city signs for weeks. this is a good way of saying that europe is moving forward. three major complaints are made against the union: its policy of agricultural decline, initiated by the fork-farm programme, its free trade agreements which distort competition and its unreasonable bureaucratic demands. i have been protesting against these three moves for many years, and i am now reiterating the farmers' message and expressing my solidarity with them.
mr. chairman, let me brief you on the situation at liberty ostrava, which has been out of service since december. our steel producer directly employs 6,000 people and indirectly provides employment to tens of thousands. the company is facing financial problems caused by the implementation of the absurd green deal, expensive energy and a competitive battle stemming from the stale sale of the commission-sanctioned liberty ostrava housing, which brought its direct competitors into the hands of its main and sole energy supplier. when gfg bought the ostrava mill from arcelormittal years ago, a number of experts warned that taking out a single energy supplier, tameh, and leaving it in the hands of the original owner was a very bad idea that would jeopardize the future of the czech mill. nevertheless, the commission approved the sale. today, the worst-case scenarios have been fulfilled and the power supply to the czech hoses has become the main tool of the competitive struggle of the two unstable groups. there was an employee in the middle. i ask you, how does the commission intend to deal with this situation for which it is responsible?
mr president, i want to speak to you. chancellor scholz canceled his sunday tea with corrupt bankers over the weekend, foreign minister baerbock her appointments with visagist and logopedin. they'd rather go out on the street to fight the right. i'm going to be a little late. the light bulb government is the real secret weapon of the afd: gas storage, heating legislation, kerosene taxes, farmer's sacrifice. of course i'm for banning the stupid afd in germany. i would like to ask the commissioner to take a decision on the matter. the most urgent would of course be the european ban on commission president von leyen. it has led the european union into economic, geopolitical and moral ruin by increasingly ridiculously ignoring democratic procedures or international legal principles. we demand their removal to the old part, and that's fine. thank you so much for moving in.
mr president, in recent years, and especially after the end of the restrictions imposed by the pandemic, there has been a worrying increase in the incidence of child abuse throughout the european union and in my country greece, incidents of violence involving minors as victims or victims are a negative impression. we're not just talking about school blackmail, but also criminal acts, even crimes and a host of hate crimes. experts focus on parental or educational deficiencies, but mainly on the catalytic role of the internet, because children and adolescents are unable to handle a variety of stimuli and in many cases identify themselves as perpetrators. the union's youth strategy and the procedure guarantees directive for suspects or accused minors are not sufficient. it is imperative today, with information campaigns, the promotion of sound standards and the exchange of information and expertise, that there be an immediately organised european policy on the prevention of child abuse. we must effectively control the phenomenon before it takes on uncontrollable dimensions.
mr president, i’m standing here simply to do the job i do for every worker in the eu. i’m pleading for decent working conditions. the european parliament is an employer and has, therefore, responsibilities as an employer to take care of all their staff, and when a mep, for whatever reason, is leaving parliament during the mandate, it cannot be so that the apa is out of a job in a matter of days. so my call is to find a structural solution for apas when they suddenly lose their jobs once a mep has left the parliament during the mandate. and hopefully you can do this while consulting their workers’ representation on this issue.
mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen! let me start with an unspoken quote that is: i personally think that if we see people like this in burundi, we should put them in a stadium and stone them. this gay and lesbian talk was given by burundi's president at a public event broadcast on television. and he added, "homosexuality is like choosing between satan and god". the human rights situation for lesbians, gays and transgender people is rapidly deteriorating in many parts of africa, as amnesty international recently reported. burundi is another extreme example of popular hatred, and the european union must not be silent about it. i have not heard anything about this from the european institutions, unlike the united states. only two years ago the eu resumed development cooperation with burundi. that's something that needs to be thought through. whoever demonizes the donors as the place of satan, whoever steps in on human rights, has forfeited his right to support with our tax dollars. the eu must act now!
mr president, millions have taken to the streets in ireland and all over the world in solidarity with the people of gaza, but here, in the european parliament and across the eu, we see nothing but hypocrisy. we are supposed to stand for human dignity, but where is the dignity in allowing strike after strike on innocent children? we debate european values of peace and democracy, while european countries are still sending weapons to israel. the eu dares to speak as an authority on international justice, while supporting an israeli government that says ‘no one will stop us, not even the hague’. it is time for sanctions. it is time that the eu's agreements with israel are considered, and to stop the bloodshed that has taken 30 000 human lives so far, and to demand a permanent ceasefire in the name of humanity and dignity.
the honourable prime minister, the honourable minister, the honourable commissioner, my colleagues. today, the audience is calling for aid to ukraine. but she doesn't need empty logos. let's stop promising, let's get to work. can anyone tell us how many promises have not been fulfilled? and it only shows our weakness and encourages russia to move forward. let's look at the number of aid each eu country has given to ukraine relative to its gdp. they are very vocal and show who is just talking and who is actually doing the job. it seems that some countries still think that russia is far away and that war will not reach them. i want to remind you of the lessons of the two world wars. so let's stop the squealing and make sure ukraine wins this war before it happens on our land.
mr president, this is a war that could have been prevented, a war that could have been stopped as early as april 2022. but we didn’t want peace. we wanted war. we wanted to promote a us-nato proxy war in the effort to damage russia. we spent billions of eu taxpayers’ money fuelling a war that wasn’t in our interest, and has helped to destroy ukraine for no good reason. ukraine wants to recruit a half a million more soldiers for the war. over 17 000 have been caught and detained by security services while attempting to avoid the draft. many more have escaped. zelenskyy wants to lower the draft days from 27 to 25, as the average age of soldiers breaches 40. there are interviews in the us media where seasoned soldiers say that due to age, alcoholism or illness, less than half the new recruits have any ability or the will to fight. yuriy lutsenko, a former prosecutor general and the ex-head of the ministry of internal affairs of ukraine, recently called for the government to tell the truth about the casualty numbers. he said ukraine was currently losing 30 000 soldiers a month, and that half a million have been killed or seriously wounded since the beginning of the invasion. the spiegel reported last week that germany doesn’t even know where its arms are going once they’ve reached ukraine. you want to keep military assistance commitments to ukraine when you know it’s an unmitigated disaster and a bloodbath that you are fuelling. are you ever going to try and end this slaughter, or do you give a damn about working class ukrainians that have been thrown into a meat grinder? cop onto yourselves.
mr president, dear commissioner and council, we approach the second horrible anniversary of russia’s brutal attack on ukraine. it is good to share here this common strong spirit for supporting ukraine militarily, economically, financially and politically. the council has to overcome orbán and find solutions for the eur 50 billion. no country fights without electricity, schools, hospitals and functioning society. we support and build our capacity for arms production in europe, but we have to stop helping russia and the russian military too. don’t you agree? we have to ensure that the battlefield goods are not exported from the european union to russia, despite sanctions. circumventions of sanctions must stop. customs statistics show that eu countries’ exports to central asian countries grew by 80% in a year. shocking headlines in the media talk about the goods which look like they are destined for central asia, but they end up in russia. we have to put more pressure on third countries, but, to put end to this, also not to accept any european company to make money with the blood of ukrainians. as the new chair for the russia monitoring group in the international trade committee, i promise we will not look overlook sanctions commonly agreed.
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen! an important election for the world was the republican primary election in the u.s. state of iowa because it sheds light on what to expect in a negative case for 2024, namely a re-election or a re-election of the former u.s. president. an important election was in taiwan, which is being sharply criticized by the people's republic of china, although it was a free election that clearly expressed what the citizens of taiwan want. why am i mentioning this? because in 2024, we are facing huge challenges: europe is still not at peace, it is still war on the european continent because of putin's russia's attack on an important european country, a large european country that defends itself with great bravery and that is supported in this defense by the european union, by its member states. we must be able to assert ourselves as the eu in these times because help from other parts of the world is no longer to be expected.
a uachtaráin, when putin, without provocation, may i add, invaded ukraine, he thought it would be all over in a couple of days. it wasn’t, because of the resilience of the ukrainian people and the support from a united europe. he hadn’t reckoned with that. now, he has turned his economy into a war economy, where everything is going into fighting against ukraine. it doesn’t worry him that over 370 000 russian soldiers have been killed. he will allow, gladly, another 370 000 russian soldiers to be killed in pursuit of his vanity project. we, however, must stand united in europe, in supporting ukraine, and we must not allow anybody – viktor orbán, putin’s pompous puppet in europe – to derail our efforts to support ukraine.
mr. president, mr. commissioner, my fellow citizens, the fact that we are now discussing the aid we continue to give to ukraine, the war that has been going on for so long, means that american diplomacy and european diplomacy have been a failure, because people are dying every day, both in ukraine and in russia. the most important thing is people's lives. of course we have to help ukraine, but we have to see how we can help it. is there a plan? do we know what's going on? how long until we supply weapons? how long until we give money? what 's the end of it ? you don't know... the citizens ask us. then there is another problem, mr vice-president of the commission, we know very well that we still have problems with ukraine regarding compliance with certain things. the citizens, the minorities of ukraine, are not respected. romanians have no right to the romanian language. it's a failure how we wanted to help ukraine cross the eu's internal market with grain to other third countries, it's a failure and farmers are on the streets. we need to analyze these things in the package. we cannot answer to our citizens what we do with fairness in the internal market.
mr president, i had a discussion with president zelenskyy last week in tallinn, and his question was how could europe keep their promises? one million shells is the promise europe gave to ukraine, and we are not able to fulfil that. what are the commission’s and council’s steps to achieving this one million rounds up to march? that’s my first question. and second, is it possible to go to the council meeting and ask all the european member states to provide 0.25 % of the gdp to support ukraine in its war against russian aggression?
mr president, it’s almost the second anniversary of the war in ukraine, a war that it is now openly acknowledged could have ended in the first few months if the west hadn’t vetoed the april 2022 peace deal. instead, ye told ukraine to fight on, and the result of that is hundreds of thousands of ukrainians lost four provinces and any hope of independence ever again. ukraine is trapped in an unwinnable stalemate, and the only way out is to painfully cut its losses. and rather than abandoning your lunacy in the midst of a crushing cost of living crisis brought on by your breathtaking stupidity, you want the citizens of europe to cough up more fuel for the fire in military assistance. and you have the audacity to say that that is done to help ukraine. the only people you’re helping are the shareholders in the arms companies. now, your commitment to ongoing war might be unshakeable; don’t expect the citizens of europe to follow suit. you sound like a bunch of deluded maniacs... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, dear commissioner and colleagues, consumers and their choices: they play a central role in the green transition and also in boosting the circular economy. indeed, many want to consume more sustainably. however, in many ways, the odds have been against them. a bewildering jungle of labels and dubious environmental claims, products designed to have a limited lifespan, or a lack of information about the repairability of products have meant that consumers have found it difficult to make greener choices and contribute meaningfully to the green transition. we, as the socialists & democrats, have long advocated measures to counter such unfair commercial practices, and this directive is a game changer. it will, for example, strengthen the credibility, transparency and monitoring of labels to avoid green- and social washing. it equally proposes strong measures to tackle early obsolescence and provides more information to consumers about their rights under the legal guarantee of products. with this directive, we empower europeans to choose products that are more durable, repairable and sustainable. it is emblematic of how our european union can benefit europeans in their everyday life. thank you to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the good work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, consumers care about the environment and in many cases they make their purchases based on labels that say they are eco-friendly, sustainable, recyclable, but are they really? in europe 78% of citizens believe that companies are making misleading green claims. and the truth is, half of them are. that is why, with the great work of my colleague biljana borzan, we have obtained legislation from this parliament which will first of all end the planned obsolescence by extending the life of products. secondly, to end such deceptive practices for consumers as encouraging the replacement of consumables such as ink cartridges or introducing software updates before it is strictly necessary. and thirdly, start to eradicate the false green labels as sustainable, biodegradable and lay the groundwork for the legislation we are working on right now: the green claims directive. we will empower our citizens and help businesses reduce their environmental impact while fighting ecoblanching.
the commission will take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take all necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary measures. it's good that citizens no longer have to question or question the veracity of what they're selling us and that we're going to stop manipulative practices. we talk about the green transition all the time. it's not just political or economic change. it's also a cultural change. as consumers, our choices, from small everyday decisions to large investments, have a huge impact on the environment. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013. in croatia, as in the whole european union, we have seen data, we see a growing interest of consumers in environmentally friendly products. they need to know where they come from, how they're made, and what their environmental footprint is. this is a clear signal that consumers, not only are looking for sustainable options, but are willing to support the green transition with their bills. and finally, the transparency and reliability of the brand, but also the balance between consumer and manufacturer protection, that's what we've been taking care of.
mr president, commissioner and colleagues, happy new year. we can’t have a green transition without consumers being fully empowered. as the effects of climate change become more real and deadly, consumers are demanding to make empowered choices. green products, sustainable practices and ethical sourcing are what a new generation of consumers want, and yet we actually make it more difficult for consumers to make these types of informed choices. greenwashing and its consequences are a scourge. for too long, manufacturers have been able to claim that their product is sustainable or ethically sourced without requiring proof. this new legislation is a clear sign of action that the eu is prepared to give consumers proper information. now consumers can rely on clear labelling. generic environmental labels such as ‘biodegradable’, ‘eco-friendly’ and ‘climate neutral’ will be prohibited. consumers will now have to be informed which products are more durable and reparable, and real consequences for traders and companies which do not abide by these laws. to achieve a truly sustainable economy, we must empower consumers.
mr president, climate neutrality claims based on offsetting are a massive contributor to climate mitigation deterrence. climate claims for products based on carbon offsetting will now, based on parliament’s work, be added to the list of unfair commercial practices. this ban is limited to products, it doesn’t cover company-wide claims, but it is still significant. these changes are also currently impacting the ongoing negotiations for the green claims directive and the carbon removal certification framework. the empowering consumers directive is now an important backstop for future anti-greenwashing policy. there claims to be a newfound appetite to tackle offsetting – if not in the commission, then certainly in parliament and arguably also in the council. we need to build on this and take the next logical step, which is to contest ‘climate neutrality’ and ‘net zero’ as climate concepts and as the basis for eu climate policy. establishing a separate eu carbon removal target is key to this.
mr president, you can’t really go into a shop nowadays without everything you see being marketed as ‘climate neutral’. whether it’s a pair of runners or a bunch of bananas, people are constantly bombarded by these generic claims, which actually don’t mean anything. we even have airlines selling ‘carbon-neutral’ flights. this has made a joke of the whole idea of conscious consumption and has lead shoppers into believing that they’re being codded, and they are, because generic environmental claims are inherently misleading, because they aren’t based on any standardised environmental performance. they’re often even specifically designed with a view to cod and intentionally fool the shoppers. so with this new legislation – and really thanks to the efforts of the parliament – companies can no longer claim that their products are ‘climate neutral’, ‘eco-friendly’ or ‘green’. carbon offsetting and calling them ‘carbon-neutral’ flights will also be outlawed. this is a really important step forward and fair play to the parliament team for driving it forward.
the report is not yet available. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. first of all, thank you! thank you to all the associations and organizations that volunteer for the functioning of our society, our freedom, our democracy, from firefighting to city partnerships to animal husbandry and nature protection. you're home, you're the kit of the company. i also want to thank those who have made human rights, climate protection, consumer protection a profession, some of them an appeal. often it is a matter of balancing the interests of superpowered companies. many people donate to these organizations. some ngos also receive european funding for their work. and it's just about those few ngos today. so it is about those who receive the money of the european taxpayer. and here, too, human rights organizations were the focus of criticism. together with the ngo no peace without justice, fight impunity has received €4.5 million in eu money. unfortunately, we don't know what happened to that money. we do not know because there is no requirement for ngos and unfortunately for research institutions in many programmes to publish the final recipients of grants, as is the case with the structural funds. in other words: we do not know today whether the money in the suitcase was in the cases of the former union leader and s&d member of parliament panzeri, we do not know whether the money in the case was not the money of european taxpayers. we do not know because the umbrella organisations do not have to specify specifically which projects the money will eventually flow into, perhaps also in other member states or even in third countries. i am therefore very pleased with the compromise made by the committee on budgetary control. i would like to stress once again that this is only about the organisations that receive funds from the european funds. in detail: first, we reaffirm the demand for an ngo definition. only under certain conditions can there be european money. we need a demarcation of the research institutions, for example. secondly, we also want transparency of the flow of funds to projects and also transparency of ngos' donors for programmes outside the structural funds. it's the only way to prevent abuse. that's the only way we know who we're dealing with. thirdly, organisations which have infringed existing law should be included in future listings and definitively excluded from further support. fourthly, we also want to take a stronger role in the secretariat of the etuc. there must be a transparency officer in every secretariat. the commission has therefore taken the necessary measures to ensure that dubious bodies do not have access to the committees. and fifthly, finally, we want an id number for eu-funded institutions so that they can be more easily identified by us across all programmes, across all regions, across all directorates-general. with these points and thanks again to the committee on budgetary control we have already achieved much more for transparency. but there's still work to be done. unfortunately, we were unable to enforce that ngos also have to publish their meetings with mps and commission officials. why not? and last but not least, what's against a special regulation for ngos that get money from taxpayers? we have to cut them off from research institutions. we have the curious situation today that ngos can rely on secrecy in research and environmental programmes when they deliver results because there are specifications in the programmes because they are funded by the same programmes as the research institutions. again, we're not talking about the associations and ngos at home. we are talking above all about those who are travelling internationally, globally and on a large scale and who receive a lot of european money from the taxpayer. i can hardly say that in conclusion, but we don't know if this money -- taxpayer money -- landed in the trunk, or if the ngos might even buy land with it. we also don't know if certain ngos' ceos personally get rich with that money. we just don't know. that's why we need transparency. we need a regulation on ngos funded by europe. i would like to ask you to support our amendment. i would like to thank you again for your cooperation and wish the vote to go well tomorrow.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i want to thank you and in particular mr pieper for the opportunity to discuss this report. the commission would firstly like to highlight the open cooperation with the european parliament in the process of preparing the report. the commission acknowledges and supports the crucial role of non-governmental organisations in fighting corruption and in protecting and promoting fundamental rights, rule of law and democracy. the commission is led by the objective of protecting the eu’s financial interests, a goal we share with the european parliament. the commission is both politically committed and legally bound to ensuring that organisations involved in criminal unethical practices, or those incompatible with eu values, do not receive eu financial support. this, of course, includes upholding the eu charter of fundamental rights. in this context, we feel that the report we are discussing today does not fully reflect the robustness of the existing legal framework, which helps us ensure a strong protection of union financial interests for all beneficiaries, including ngos. i would like to recall the main safeguards already in place today. the commission’s early detection and exclusion system (edes) is essentially a blacklist, which allows us to exclude problematic operators from receiving eu funding. we apply a rigorous selection process, carried out prior to the award of funding. indeed, in all our discussions, we are occasionally accused of requiring too many checks for awarding funds. the close monitoring during the implementation of agreements and contracts; the various mechanisms in the contractual arrangements safeguarding the proper use of eu funds, including for the violation of eu values. if an entity is engaged in any criminal or unethical practices or acts against eu values, we have the legal framework in place to prevent such entities from receiving eu funds and eu funding. the commission would also like to highlight the steps it has already taken to strengthen the transparency of funding to ngos and provide more explicit safeguards for the protection of eu values. upon proposal of the commission, the financial regulation – recast politically agreed in trilogue already in december last year – provides the following: a definition of a non-governmental organisation and an obligation for all grant applicants to systematically declare whether they fall under this definition; ambitious transparency provisions that will ensure that the financial transparency system can act as a real, centralised platform for the publication of information in all management modes; an explicit new grant for excluding entities from eu funding under the early detection and exclusion system for incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence; and an explicit reference to the obligation for the commission and member states to respect eu values and the charter of fundamental rights when implementing the budget. the commission also adopted a proposal for a directive establishing a new form of non-profit associations. this will be a new vehicle fostering the eu democratic space while facilitating cross-border operations of associations. last december, we presented the ‘defence of democracy’ package, which includes a draft directive aiming to establish mandatory national transparency requirements for all entities – including, where relevant, ngos – undertaking interest representation activities on behalf of third countries. those entities would be obliged to declare the annual amount of funding received from third countries. in light of all this, we would like to advocate for a balanced approach to eu funding to ngos that ensures protection of eu financial interests, while imposing proportionate requirements to beneficiaries of eu funds. stricter controls require more reporting and therefore more paperwork for beneficiaries. as a consequence, they inherently complicate access to eu funding for small organisations with limited capacities. the commission will examine thoroughly the recommendations in the report and will work together with parliament to continue ensuring that eu values and the principle of transparency are upheld in eu funding to all beneficiaries. of course, we will try to take into account the remarks that will be possible to listen to today in your interventions. thank you all very much for your attention and for your work.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, there are, of course, some ngos whose politics we may not like, whom we believe are stooges for vested interests, or dare to promote their own gravy train. but you don’t deal with that by trying to annihilate them – at least not if you claim to be a democrat. but that has been what this issue has been about, spearheaded by the epp. discipline people with politics you don’t like by choking their funding. punish them by taking their money away. blacklist them. drive them underground and out of public life. it’s not about transparency or accountability, or indeed about concern for the use of public funds. it’s a political project against those who try to hold power to account. we need to recognise that for what it is, and i’m very glad that many in the parliament have done so. it is of course important that eu funds which are given out to anyone, that there’s transparency and accountability and all of that good stuff. of course it is. but those rules should apply to everyone – not just ngos, big business – everyone. robust rules for all.
the commission is not prepared to accept any such amendments. first, it's completely illogical for the associations that we call the majority of the full government budget to be ngos. second, we cannot call associations that have only a few members representatives of the citizens. third, i would understand that the associations that have raised, say, 10,000 euros of membership and citizen donations, we give another 10,000. but i can't understand giving them another 10 million. in short, the non-governmental sector in europe today is a common fraud. it's actually a parallel government that the citizens didn't choose. this government pushes the very agendas that are most hostile to the people and that pressure politicians, who usually have no opinion, to adopt them beyond the will of their constituents. and you, dear voters, have almost no influence on these associations except that governments are funding them with your money and the only way out of this enchanted circle is through elections. so don't vote for the left, or the covert left that calls itself the center-right, because they all support this payroll system.
mr president, transparency is a fundamental principle governing the use of european funds. and that goes for ngos. the actual analyses have pointed to many shortcomings in the allocation of funds to non-profit organisations. we must therefore set up strict regulation and effective control mechanisms to prevent fraud in the future. the same rules must be applied at european and national level for controlling the financing of ngos by third countries. the abuse of ngos has economic, commercial and social implications. in particular, where they represent the interests of third countries on the territory of the member states of the european union. fundamental measures must be taken at european level. but i also call on the member states to amend their legislation at national level. ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important subject and i would be very curious how the commission will come up with a proposal for measures that will actually help control the financing but also the use of resources of ngos.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of the unfortunate incident at qatargate, it is essential to recognize that the dark non-governmental organizations involved are not representative. on the contrary, most ngos play a fundamental and irreplaceable role in our society, working tirelessly for european values and ideals, promoting democracy, defending human rights and supporting the most vulnerable communities. however, it is essential to prevent and combat fraud, conflict of interest, double financing, corruption, money laundering and bribery in all situations, regardless of the nature and legal status of those involved. i believe that this is a step in the right direction, and that the need to register ngos applying for european funds should be included in the transparency register. as elected meps, we have a duty to protect european taxpayers by ensuring that each euro is used in accordance with european values. the broad multi-party agreement reached at the cont commission is excellent news in this context. i am confident that the proposals in this report will prepare us better to deal with situations like qatargate in the future, while reaffirming our support for organisations that truly represent and serve the interests and values of the european union.
mr. chairman, honourable commissioner, ngos are an important part of our public life. they protect democracy, help those in need and ensure the accountability of public institutions. therefore, we need to prevent those who abuse this position of ngos from attacking our rules and values in any way. the european people's party, in cooperation with experts and the european commission and the european court of auditors, has therefore long been looking for ways to establish transparent rules and funding for non-profit organisations. the katargate affair has shown us a weakness that nonprofits have, and we cannot let that weakness continue to bubble around here and leave it to different people, organizations and states that don't believe in the principles of democracy. the european people's party therefore calls for transparent rules for non-profit organisations.
mr president, i am pleased that parliament is dealing with the issue of transparency in the financing of ngos. i consider the work of the third sector very important. often, he can deliver help more efficiently and quickly to people where they need it. in the context of this report, i would like to reiterate that church charities are often unable to apply for eu budget funding because of the criteria set. i consider this unfair, because these organizations are many times more effective in helping people and this is especially a waste of their potential. ultimately, it will pay for the most of those who need it. on the other hand, i am critical of the selectivity of the allocation of european funds, since often organizations are funded that promote a certain ideology, which i absolutely disagree with.
mr president, commissioner and colleagues, i had the honour to run two ngos in ireland over the course of my career. i just wanted to introduce a note of reality to this debate. the amount of compliance, governance and regulatory scrutiny that ngos have to undergo throughout any eu funding project is well beyond anything that i’ve heard referenced in this debate. in addition, the work of monitoring and evaluation to ensure that funds are applied to the correct beneficiaries is also extraordinary. there is also extensive work on impact assessment in order to show a critical component of all logic frameworks that ngos in receipt of eu funding operate. so yes, we have to really, properly scrutinise the question of sham ngos that have been subject to influence operations. but we could end up undermining, not restoring, public trust in ngos. ngos have the unique ability to articulate society’s conscience, to bring to light issues that would not otherwise attract public attention, and to speak for those without a voice.
mr president, not all ngos are perfect. far from it. some so-called human rights ngos are, in fact, often guilty of instrumentalising human rights in the service of western interests and imperialism. there are also lots of great ngos who do amazing work, like irish wildlife trust, birdwatch ireland, carbon market watch. they have integrity and expertise and are constructive. we should be looking at institutional and structural failings within the european parliament, not tarring all ngos with the same brush. many in this parliament, especially the epp, would be more than happy with the eradication of ngos and civil society groups in order to clear an unimpeded path for big business. the corporate sector has a far greater lobby footprint in the eu than ngos and civil society. it looks to me that some meps want to protect and promote the interests of big business, rather than those of the ordinary people.
mr. president, the honorable high-choice! the conflict in gaza does not seem to be over. this one is becoming more and more dehumanized every day. nor does it seem the end of the western bipartisanism. while on the one hand, the united states is trying to prevent the spillover of conflict into the region, israel is attacking targets in lebanon and syria. the west has attacked positions in yemen. instead of the cause of the conflict, we are merely addressing its consequences. a breakthrough process has begun in the hague. this has been rejected as unfounded in the united states and in some european countries. what's more, they're continuing to send weapons to israel. although these same countries have an obligation and obligation under international law to prevent serious crime. respected, instead of widening the gap between the west and the arab world, we need a ceasefire and hostilities in gaza and the region, and the release of hostages and the immediate start of peace negotiations. the future of both israelis and palestinians is peaceful and independent. or won't he?
mr president, despite the catastrophic death toll it has inflicted, israel is losing – on the ground and in the court of public opinion. there is no way that this ends that doesn’t leave israel a pariah state, with occupation and apartheid on borrowed time, and they know it. so they’re doing everything they can. desperate acts of aggression to provoke a wider conflict with lebanon, with iran, with anybody – to draw in the us, to save them from the consequences of their own actions. as yemen shows, butcher biden is reporting for duty. with europe’s frau genocide by his side, they are the ones who have enabled the continuation of israeli terror. without them, it would already be over. so take note, butcher biden, the ancestors of the ireland that you claim to be from disown you. keep our country out of your mouth. as for von der leyen and genocidal germany, with your words and deeds supporting israel in the icj, not in our name. the people of europe stand with palestine and with south africa.
mr president, on 7 october, i was in cyprus visiting and seeing the situation which cyprus, a member country, is living – and 7 october was a day that will always stay in my memory. it’s something unimaginable that could have happened: the atrocities, the kidnapping of poor young people, and still their families don’t know their whereabouts. it’s a reminder of how cruel we are. not many of you mentioned the hostages. hamas is not only keeping the hostages in gaza, they are also keeping hostage whole peoples, trying to get sympathy to divide europe and to divide the world. whoever is praying for voters based on a campaign, and dividing the people of europe on this issue, has not lived through the war. we have a saying that whoever advocates for war and divide and conflict, let this war be in his or her house. the sad story about hostages and their families that are still waiting for the loved ones to return home should be the theme of this debate. to all of those that are using harsh words, i would just like to remind them: one day, history will call upon them and ask them, ‘where were you, where the war was on the verge of our homes?’ one the last point: i just want to say that in bosnia and herzegovina, komšić is using this for his campaign. he was not fighting and he was not a true man. he is sitting in a chair that was provided by peace and reconciliation. so let him shut up and let’s start reconciliating people in europe and abroad. (the speaker agreed to respond to a blue-card speech)
blue-card question. – dear colleague, you mentioned correctly the atrocities of 7 october as well as the hostages question. i am very much surprised you said nothing about the thousands of palestinians assassinated in gaza, including thousands and thousands of children. why not? are you thinking those victims and the killings are justified? and another question: you know the south africans know something about apartheid. why do you think they are putting the case of genocide in the international court? is it a kind of a communist conspiracy or what?
blue-card answer. – i will not contribute to the electoral campaign in south africa, but about the civilian victims, what i can say, i always said hamas is keeping gaza and holding people as their hostage, not only hostages that are taken from israel’s side, but they are held as human shields that they are using in the war on terror, they are hostages and they are victims of this war. so we should discuss how these people should be saved and not be used as a human shield from the hamas terrorists. i’ve been in a war, and i know what they are doing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more than three months have passed since 7 october and the humanitarian situation in gaza is only getting worse: the number of palestinians killed is more than 23,000, the number of wounded is more than 60,000. the immediate ceasefire and release of all hostages is required, as high representative borrell has called for, and an escalation in neighbouring lebanon and the red sea is being called for. the italian government, unfortunately, has only done disasters: it has cut off cooperation funds, frozen 7 million euros for the un refugee agency and frozen and blocked several projects in gaza and the west bank, where israeli settler violence continues. a shame that giorgia meloni must answer for! the international community must intervene to restore hope for a peace process that must resume immediately, for two peoples and two states that can finally live without fear and with respect for their rights. while too many people are dying every day, you can't waste any more time, you need an immediate ceasefire!
mr. speaker, what is this? the number of people killed in gaza every day now exceeds any other conflict in this century, according to oxfam international. 250 people a day, more than twice as many as in syria, as in ukraine, as in sudan, iraq, yemen and afghanistan. the threat is not just from the bombs that are raining over gaza. there is also the lack of food, water, health care, and heat. it is unreasonable for children to be afraid when they go to school, that they cannot get food to eat, that mothers need to give birth without electricity, without functioning health care. we need a permanent ceasefire now. it's time for this house to take a stand, put pressure on israel! because we need a truce now.
a uachtaráin, the atrocities committed on 7 october by hamas against innocent civilians were entirely repugnant. but what we are seeing now has entered another stratosphere in terms of ordinary people – men, women and children – being killed, starved or left homeless. there have been many comments in this debate revolving around geopolitics and strategic interests. such details and explanations are of little value when the reality is that a whole population is being punished for the actions of terrorists. the military campaign in gaza is among the deadliest and most destructive in recent history. not much has been said about what kind of bombs and artillery are being used in gaza. but the indiscriminate bombing, the devastation to the infrastructure and to the whole population is immense. i support the irish government’s efforts to intensify the pressure for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire, and i call on everyone here present to do the same. i am against hamas. i am against anti-semitism, but i will always stand up for the innocent. israel has the right to exist and defend itself. it has the right to get its hostages home safe. but innocent palestinians have the right to life – not just to live, but to life. we need a ceasefire, and we need it now. without a ceasefire, no progress can be made and we will never have peace.
mr president, commissioner, the world is living powerlessly in the face of a huge humanitarian catastrophe in the gaza strip. this tragedy cannot be justified by the atrocious attacks committed by hamas on 7 october and which this parliament has already condemned. today we are witnessing indiscriminate israeli bombing of civilians, attacks on hospitals and critical infrastructure, severe famine, shortages of medicines or the forced displacement of two million citizens trapped in hell. this parliament must therefore demand a permanent ceasefire today, in line with what an overwhelming majority of the members of the un general assembly have already demanded. a political solution, through two states, through an international peace conference that ends the vicious cycle of violence and suffering and a firm support for the work of the international court of justice, because wars also have rules and no one is exempt from them. today not only is stability in the gaza region at stake, but also europe's credibility as a global player.
mr president, i wish that we could see the suffering and trauma through the prism of our humanity. the images of children in particular are unbearable. and this is not a matter of being on one side or the other. it’s human suffering. human trauma. we need an immediate and lasting ceasefire, and long-term peace and security will not be ever achieved without a two-state solution. that is an illusion. i would like to highlight two specific points. one is the fate of journalists. a record number of journalists have been killed, injured, assaulted or arrested in this conflict. and that means that we get less and less information about the situation on the ground. israel must do everything. it must do much more to protect journalists. and allegations of targeted violence and killing of journalists by israeli forces must be urgently investigated by an independent body. and finally, europe and the us have criticised calls by senior government ministers for voluntary emigration from gaza. but criticism is not enough. government ministers are not random bystanders and if netanyahu does not dismiss them, his claim of self-defence sounds even more hollow.
a uachtaráin, ‘we did what we could. remember us.’ those words of the late doctor mahmoud abu nugaila were repeated by irish lawyer, blinne ní ghrálaigh, before the international court of justice last week. in northern ireland, 3 500 people died over the 30 years of our conflict. in gaza, that number have died in a little over the last two weeks. so many innocent civilians; most are women and children. netanyahu must go. he, and his government, must pay the price for breaching international law. the relentless bombing is preventing precious aid and medical supplies from getting into gaza. children are being operated on without anaesthesia. it is time for concrete eu actions, including economic sanctions and banning the sale of israeli settlement goods. diplomatic pressure to end human rights abuses and redoubling efforts to release the hostages and achieve a ceasefire. we cannot look away.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues. we should never tire of condemning hamas and the way in which they have conducted this war with no regard whatsoever for the civilians in gaza. however, i want to focus on the humanitarian situation. israel has blamed variously the united nations, the egyptian authorities, ngos and gazans themselves for the failure to deliver humanitarian aid, blaming – and i quote – ‘the capability of the international organisations inside gaza to receive this aid’. the facts on the ground do not bear this out. israel operates a dual-use list that it has not published, and no humanitarian organisation has had sight of. trucks previously cleared for entry can be turned back arbitrarily if a single item is rejected. for example, absurdly, a tent pole in an irish aid consignment, the entire consignment has to go back and be unloaded and reloaded. there are those who say, ‘let’s talk positively’, ‘what are the positive proposals’? but israel has repeatedly rejected calls to internationalise the inspection process. it is therefore impossible not to conclude that israel is deliberately frustrating the distribution of humanitarian aid. we need a ceasefire immediately.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic situation which has been unfolding in gaza for more than 100 days is a situation which can best be described as collective punishment against the population, at worst as a risk of genocide. as i said, of course we must condemn hamas for the actions it committed on 7 october, and we have done so in this parliament. but israel's disproportionate military response to the people of gaza is unacceptable and in complete violation of international law. and therefore we must support the international court of justice so that all these crimes, all of them, cannot go unpunished. we must call for a permanent ceasefire so that the hostages can be released, that humanitarian aid can arrive and that the escalation can stop. and finally, we must use our instruments which are the association agreements. we have an association agreement based on article 2 with israel which says that israel must respect human rights. today we are far from it and we have the opportunity to activate this article two to end this association agreement.
madam president, we must continue to condemn hamas, hezbollah and iran. israel claims to be a democratic country acting in self-defence, but at this stage, 24 000 palestinians lie dead in gaza. we have done nothing to condemn what is happening there. we can’t even agree to a ceasefire in this particular chamber. we can’t even get humanitarian aid to those that are suffering. there is now potential famine, hunger, disease, no access to basic medications. and we still cannot condemn israel’s actions of massive proportions against the civilian population of gaza. let us be very clear: what happened on 7 october was appalling. but what has been happening to the palestinian people for decades is appalling and is a crime against humanity. again, the european union and the member states have never, ever held israel to account in its breach of the oslo accords, its breach of establishing a two-state solution and its breach of ensuring that ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i am surprised that some people are only crying about the israeli victims – correctly, they are crying – but they are saying nothing about the massacres of thousands of palestinians. but this is not my point right now. the point is that the european union is losing another opportunity to play a role in international affairs by not following the united states, by not supporting or tolerating this war criminal, netanyahu – who is staying in power as long as the war is continuing, because if the war stops he will be judged for corruption. so let’s support south africa, which brought the case of genocide to the international court of justice, and let’s ask for an immediate ceasefire.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the council. palestinian civilians, women, the elderly, children. how would you define having to operate on children to be amputated without anesthesia, if it wasn't a crime against humanity? gaza today is a hell where there are no rights, where there is no right to hope. our 125 million humanitarian aid is a tiny drop in a sea of suffering. yes, hamas terrorism must be fought without neighbourhoods, as well as settler violence and all forms of collective punishment, which is a crime. it's not enough what we're doing, it can't be enough to wash our consciences! we need to work hard for an immediate ceasefire. hamas must release all hostages in exchange for the withdrawal of israeli troops from the strip. only then can we build a credible negotiating table that excludes the first enemies of the israeli people namely hamas and have two new leaders, on the one hand and on the other, finally authorized to address the root causes of decades of violence and bloodshed, finally to achieve a palestinian state that can live in peace with that of israel. the cost of non-action would be dramatic and unacceptable not only for the humanitarian tragedy but also for the possible regional deflagration: lebanon, yemen, the red sea, maybe the whole middle east. (the president-in-office takes the floor from the speaker)
madam president, we are concerned about the loss of civilian life, which must be kept as low as possible. we must support the provision of humanitarian aid to the innocent population of the gaza strip until it is free from the yoke of hamas terrorists. the responsibility for the civilian casualties that darken our hearts is carried by hamas, which orchestrated the horrific attacks on october 7. these attacks provoked a reaction from israel, which has every right to defend its country and the security of its citizens. even today 136 people remain hostages in the endless tunnels that terrorists built under gaza. israel is trying to destroy this inhuman ideology that calls its followers to darkness and death and that overshadows the freedom of our modern societies, supported by the well-known axis of evil, iran, russia and turkey.
madam president, 100 days of international inaction. 100 days of double standards. 100 days of israel’s genocide against the palestinians. over 24 000 innocent civilians dead, over 10 000 of them children, many thousands still under the rubble – and youse are wondering if this is a genocide? almost 2 million displaced and still being bombed. hospitals, churches, mosques, bakeries, apartments bombed – and you’re still wondering if this is a genocide? not one eu country stood by south africa. germany is said to have committed the first genocide of the 20th century in namibia. namibia’s president has denounced berlin’s shocking decision to reject south africa’s indictment. what’s happened to germany? i’ve admired germany most of my life. now they’ve lost the plot. they’ve been the cheerleaders for fuelling the war in ukraine, at great cost to their own economy. now they’re the cheerleaders of the settler colonial zionist project, and supporting a genocide. has germany learnt nothing from its own history?!
madam president, i express my respect to our partner india, acknowledging many areas of common interest – to name just one: freedom of navigation and alignment in terms of the taiwan strait and the red sea. yet we have to express our concern about the special and privileged partnership between india and the russian federation, recently confirmed by the telephone talk between prime minister modi and putin. this big and proud nation should reconsider eventually some areas of its foreign policy.
madam president, colleagues, commissioner, as a member of the epp delegation, which recently had a very successful mission to delhi and mumbai, i would like to underline the need for mutually respectful, equal dialogue with india. to my regret, the report – and especially its chapter on human rights and democracy – violates this principle. the report calls for shared action and leadership in the global arena on many issues such as climate, the environment, transport, energy, digitalisation, health. but it ‘expresses its concern for the deterioration of the human rights situation and the shrinking civic space in india’ – citation ends – and just in india, not in the eu. i pose the following question to my colleagues: do we have the moral right to teach india on democracy and the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms while we ourselves behave badly in the very same area? i also consider as inappropriate an attempt to give india recommendations on its foreign policy and relations with other countries, especially china and russia.
madam president, according to ursula von der leyen, india and the eu are vibrant democracies that share fundamental values and common interests. we’re actually natural partners, or at least that’s what she told narendra modi while shaking his hand in new delhi on one of the many occasions she’s met with him in the hopes of lining india up against china and russia. this is the same modi whose ultra nationalist bjp party has presided over intensifying ethnic tensions and genocidal massacres, and who was banned from the united states in 2002 by the bush administration for his role in inciting the gujarat pogrom, which saw hundreds of muslim girls and women gang-raped and torn apart by marauding hindu nationalists, children force-fed petrol and set on fire, and games of cricket with people’s skulls. that modi – normalised for a decade by trump, then biden, and now our friend in team democracy, one big happy family that also contains israel and saudi arabia. and you wonder why people in ireland might have a problem in giving up our national foreign policy. you must be joking.
madam president, it would seem that the great hopes for india as washington’s counterweight to china, have been shelved for the moment. india refused to get on board with the russian sanctions, and the two countries are busy strengthening defence cooperation and trade relations, while it seems the us and china have made some steps towards de-escalation in their trade war. if this was a less significant country, the report would not be tiptoeing around the russian relations issue, but heaping condemnations and threats. instead, the report talks about india as one of our most important trade partners – a like-minded democracy that will partner with us to tackle democratic backsliding worldwide. these comments could be taken seriously if modi’s tenure wasn’t marked by constant harassment and intimidation of political opposition, and crackdowns on free speech and independent media. and the timid comments on the persecution of religious minorities could be taken seriously if the majority of eu leaders didn’t spend the past three months facilitating the genocide of muslims in gaza by the israeli terrorist.
- madam speaker, please. diplomacy is a prerequisite for building bridges and creating a common future. and we need a foreign and development policy that empowers women, youth and minorities and their influence. we must live up to our global commitments, and it's not just about standing up for human rights, but it's about our own security and our own security and our own legitimacy. because if we don't, we're going to fail. the european union's voice must be strong and clear, and we must be brave enough to stand up for our values even when it is most uncomfortable. and we must also not give in to right-wing extremists who seek division rather than cohesion. for us social democrats, it is obvious; the eu's voice must be a voice for justice, for peace, for human rights. we need to be the strong voice the world needs. madam speaker, we must act here and now!
it is of the utmost importance for the european union that russia does not become a target of ukraine and that ukraine does not become another country directly influenced by russia. we continue to see the consequences for the fate and future of these countries of the conflict zones created by russia in the regions of transnistria, georgia, abkhazia and south ossetia, as well as the continuing violent pressure on belarus and other countries that russia considers to be within its sphere of influence. russia tried to do the same with ukraine 10 years ago when it occupied crimea and parts of eastern ukraine, hoping to influence the ukrainian central government to abandon its free-for-all european drive and return to russia's direct sphere of influence. but that did not happen, and russia began a full-scale war of conquest against ukraine. the european court of justice today has to do everything it can to ensure that russia does not succeed in breaking ukraine and destroying the future of the next european people. the european union and the other european countries must work together to ensure that russia finally realizes that the time has come for europe to achieve its violent crime goals. ukrainians, moldovans, belarusians, armenians, georgians and the assyrians have the right to determine their own future. - thank you. - thank you.
madam president, i am not going to say anything. china is the greatest threat of our generation to europe, to freedom, to democracy. it is a terrible dictatorship which, besides mistreating its own citizens, also poses a threat to its neighbors. but beyond that, a whole host of rogue states are alive from russia to north korea and iran, and thus structurally challenging both our security and our democracy. yet it is as if we are sleeping a sleeping torch in europe when it comes to the challenges of china. just as five or six years ago most members of this house could see russia talking about a potential ally and trading partner - yes, the danish prime minister even invited president putin to a beer party in tivoli - so today we see china with too much optimism and too little understanding of the threat it poses. if we really were to have preventive diplomacy, we would have to stand with a strong, united voice against the chinese dictatorship and the influence they exert in our world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission, and we are now in favour of the proposal. this requires common defence tools and compliance with international law and our european values. we will therefore intervene in the same way, whether it is the russian invasion of ukraine or the continuing turkish occupation of cyprus, a territory of the european union. in particular, turkish troops maintain occupation status in the northern part of cyprus, trample on fundamental rights and commit war crimes such as settlement, cultural genocide and illegal sale of greek cypriot land. these are being produced on european union territory occupied by turkey for almost half a century. this is a failure to be recorded in the report, which calls on the european union to take an active role by appointing its envoy for cyprus. we have repeatedly called for the immediate withdrawal of turkish occupation forces and respect for human rights in cyprus. finally, the success of the european union depends primarily on cyprus.
madam president, our european space will be as secure as our neighbourhood countries. the european union is today the world's largest financial supporter of stability and democracy, with a budget of over €50 billion a year. we are also active in humanitarian and diplomatic assistance. it is important that we continue on this path in times of increasing tension. however, it is necessary to strengthen controls and to analyse in a consistent manner the effective use of these resources and their impact on change in individual countries. it is often the case that, despite our investments, the influence of undemocratic powers prevails in these countries. i believe that one way to prevent conflict in the world is through interfaith dialogue. i am pleased that the european people's party is active in this area. for 25 years, he has organized regular interfaith meetings. mutual dialogue and understanding will play an increasingly important role in preventing conflicts in the world. our parliament also plays a special role in preventing conflicts in countries with which we have no official diplomatic relations, such as taiwan. there is still a great prospect of mutual development. but last but not least, it is important to use the economic dimension and trade agreements to prevent conflict, because economics and trade do not work without morality. all these steps, humanitarian aid, interreligious dialogue, but also trade agreements, are important and can be a european contribution to conflict prevention and to stability and peace in the world.
- madam speaker, please. the work of conflict prevention does not make big headlines, but it is by staying ahead and investing in diplomacy that we maintain peace. some conflicts make headlines, others go on in silence. for example, did you know that there have been wars and conflicts in congo-kinshasa for more than 20 years? or that decades of conflict in somalia have led to the drought of half the population? or that there are more than 50 so-called frozen conflicts going on around the world? no matter what conflict we're talking about, women's rights are being violated first, often in the dark. i would therefore like to highlight the feminist foreign policy introduced by my close friend margot wallström and now adopted by several countries, but which unfortunately was thrown into the paper basket by the sd-led government in sweden. it is time for the eu to adopt a feminist foreign policy that makes a long-term investment in global peace and security!
madam president, this report claims the eu can play a positive role in preventive diplomacy in tackling frozen conflicts around the world. the past two decades are a dramatic demonstration of how the eu does precisely the opposite: kosovo, syria, nagorno-karabakh, ukraine, israel, palestine. just look at the genocide taking place at the moment in gaza. we haven’t time to go back over all the colonial exploits of european powers and the imperialists, carving up large parts of the world with complete disregard for the ethnic and religious communities on the ground. but european colonialists did lay the ground for the israeli settler colonial project, and then supported the apartheid state of israel for over 75 years, while they systematically brutalised and butchered the palestinians. when the israeli genocide of gaza began on 7 october, the eu ran out to their defence. presidents von der leyen and metsola literally flew out there and pledged eu support, no matter what was to come. you say the eu can limit the spread of conflicts. the council still hasn’t called for a ceasefire. sadly, the eu is part of the problem.
madam president, so we’re here today celebrating the eu’s great role in preventive diplomacy. what an absolute joke! when the truth is that the eu has been seriously active not in preventive diplomacy, but in preventing diplomacy. we’ve had two years where the very concept of diplomacy has been smeared as a russian plot. you’ve pulled out all the stops to smash the slightest chance of dialogue in ukraine. where was the preventive diplomacy in 2020 and 2021, when at least france and germany tried to reduce the tensions with russia? but the eu flung itself behind the us and nato belligerence. and it’s the poor people of ukraine with their smashed state who are living with the consequences of that. meanwhile, 101 days into the genocide in gaza and the eu hasn’t even managed to call for a ceasefire, while this report has the audacity to claim that the eu always seeks to reduce the risk of escalation. no, it doesn’t. you’re fooling nobody. it’s time to abandon rampant militarism and stop hurtling down the wrong road of history.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, by default, i’m an optimist. but at times we also have to be realistic. the european economy has faced many challenges over the last five years. unfortunately, we are going to face many more over the next number of years. to reach our 2050 climate neutrality goals it is estimated that we will have to spend an additional eur 360 billion per annum. our populations are getting older, and many member states are ill-prepared for the challenges and the cost that this will bring. it is estimated by 2050, most people will outlive their retirement savings by between 8 and 20 years. meanwhile, the commission warned this week that, whilst energy prices are stabilising, they will not return to pre-pandemic levels in the foreseeable future. this is all against the backdrop of the fact that 18 member states currently have debt-to-gdp ratios of above 60%, or are running budget deficits of over 3%, or both – and we are going to deactivate the emergency escape clause this spring. it is clear to me, and to many experts, that we cannot return to the rigidity of the existing economic governance framework. we need a flexible, tailored framework that allows our union to face the many challenges, while ensuring fiscal responsibility, debt consolidation, and encouraging investment and growth. this has been a difficult file to negotiate. the various political ideologies underpinning our different economic theories go to the heart of all our political groups. therefore, i want to thank my fellow negotiators, and my colleagues in the renew group, for showing pragmatism and common sense. i also want to urge everybody in this house to support the mandate to go to trilogue. it would be grossly irresponsible, even reckless, if we were to delay or prevaricate this very serious issue any further. so i urge all to support the mandate. i am genuinely disappointed that the greens will not support moving to trilogue. this parliament must be at the negotiating table to represent citizens in negotiating the review of the economic governance framework with the council. we owe that to everybody that’s dependent on the euro and the stability of that currency.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, (start of speech off mic) ... union strives to stay competitive on the global stage, we must not forget or take for granted the pivotal role that quality jobs must hold across industries and sectors in shaping our future. our policies must continue to support upskilling, innovation, research and development, with a robust digital infrastructure to develop cutting-edge industries and foster collaboration between academia, research institutions and businesses. but let me reiterate something i’ve said in this chamber many times before this debate: our policies are needed to ensure these quality jobs are more accessible and sustainable for women, and i welcome the commissioner’s words on gender balance – because for women and mothers in the workforce, it’s simply not good enough. we need policies that break down barriers to allow women to re-enter the workforce after taking some time as a caregiver, policies that foster a workplace that values work-life balance, respects diverse family structures, ensures equal pay for equal work, and understands the unique challenges faced by working mothers. gender equality isn’t just a social justice issue; it’s an economic imperative.
mr president, norway’s decision to allow the seabed mining in the arctic is very destructive for the vulnerable arctic environment, even at the exploration state. the deep sea is the most extensive habitat on our planet and it supports high biodiversity. scientists believe that as many as 10 million species inhabit the deep sea, an ecosystem that may be as rich as the tropical rainforest. the majority of species are yet to be discovered. the deep sea is also critical for other environmental services, such as long-term carbon sequestration. this kind of activity could quite literally start a global race to the bottom, a race to mine the ocean floor. the position of the eu is clear. the precautionary principle must be applied, and we need an international moratorium on deep seabed mining. we need to send a clear message to the norwegian parliament to withdraw their decision.
i am not sure what the commissioner has said. if you look at the list of countries that support deep-sea mining, you'll find china, russia, india and norway. i would say that norway is in a somewhat critical society, and generally speaking we should remove the subject of deep sea mining from our agenda very, very quickly. we are not even able to establish really high environmental standards on land. how is this supposed to work in the ocean? besides, we don't need that. these are the very actions that run counter to our whole idea of an honest circular economy, where we will eventually become independent of these sources. we are faced with the enormous task of finally managing to internalize the externalized costs of our economic system. and i'm sure that's a hell of a challenge in a region where we don't even know what damage we're doing when we dig for raw materials in the deep sea. i think norway is on the way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the norwegian parliament's decision to approve the mining of these seabed, agreed between conservatives, centrists and socialists, is a shame. the seabed is also a giant carbon sink, nestled in biodiversity. exploiting the seabed is opening a pandora's box, which we already know has a terrible consequence: the destruction of our planet's second lung. the ocean sequesters 38 percent of the greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere each year and absorbs 93 percent of the excess heat caused by human activities. the exploitation of these funds would lead to the release of co2 that has been sequestered for millions of years, turning the ocean into a real climate bomb. like antarctica, the ocean floor is one of the last little-known areas that have been preserved from human predatory appetites. let's protect this stranger. we are already seeing the devastating consequences of over-mining the earth. let us not repeat the same mistakes in the depths of our oceans.
mr president, norway has somehow been successful in promoting itself as a global leader of sustainability, despite a quarter of its economic activity being generated by the export of fossil fuels. but they can’t start a global deep-sea mining race in the name of sustainability. deep-sea mining would wreak havoc, with corporations dredging, digging and scraping the ocean floor, creating sediment plumes and dumping waste material, all away from the controlling eyes of the public. it would interfere with the ocean’s ability to capture carbon and would kill off species we haven’t even discovered yet. we do need certain materials for the green transition, but that does not mean we should destroy ecosystems with flimsy resource-scarcity arguments that don’t make sense and are against our international commitments. we have to stop a new environmental catastrophe before it begins, or norway’s name will go down in history as being the country that kicked off the destruction of the deep sea. and it is important to remember that if we do the same in the global south, be it africa, asia or latin america, we are guilty of the very same thing.
mr president, we sought to put this item on the agenda, because norway is taking the world down a slippery slope to rip up the depths of the sea. and to make matters worse, they’re claiming they can do this environmentally destructive activity in a sustainable way. now come on. what they’re actually doing is opening up an area the size of italy to exploration for deep-sea mining, with the government inviting companies to bid for licences. this is the colonisation of the new frontier, the deep seas, where 90 % of the species present are unknown to humankind. it is some arrogance to say you can do this sustainably. we have a clear position on deep-sea mining. this house has repeatedly called for a moratorium because research tells us that too little is known about its real impacts. extracting minerals from the deep ocean would have extremely serious consequences on our planetary systems, and do irreparable damage to marine ecosystems. we’ve got to be very clear: condemn this action now.
madam president, farmers and farming in general are critical elements of the strong, vibrant rural communities across all of europe. in my own country, farming activities sustain villages and small towns, they provide incomes for families and support local businesses. without farming, we would have no food security across europe. so it annoys the hell out of me when i hear lazy commentary from some politicians dismissing the importance of farming and ignoring the valuable role farmers play in our economy and society. for the last 20 years, governments and the commission have asked farmers to transform how they work their farms. each and every day, the farmers have done what they have been asked to do. however, there are some politicians and bureaucrats who think that farmers should incur all the cost of this change. that’s wrong because some farmers have to be able to make a decent living so they can look after their families, service their debts, and invest in the local economy and their future. i’m glad that this debate is taking place on the issue of fair incomes for farmers, but we do need to do an awful lot more to ensure that we have vibrancy, that we have sustainability, that we have intergenerational transfer of family farms. we only have to look at the age profile to show that it is not an attractive profession at the present moment, and we have a lot of work to do to ensure sustainability in agriculture and fair prices for farmers for their work and their effort.
a uachtaráin, i think, first of all, i am very pleased with the support the farmers are getting from my group, the epp. we see ourselves as the farmers’ party, but at the same time, farmers themselves feel not just not loved, but sometimes not appreciated and in some respects marginalised. and it isn’t fit for 55 that’s the problem – it is the implementation of it and not getting recognition for the work they have done. an awful lot of good things are happening in farming to reduce emissions, but they’re not getting credit for it. secondly, the red tape associated with it is overwhelming, so much so that teagasc – the advisory group in ireland for farmers – have no time now to visit any farms. their whole time is taken up with filling in one form after another for all the various schemes. this has to change. and finally, calendar farming. there is no flexibility whatsoever. so farmers maybe, who have a tank full of slurry with cattle having to lie down in their own excrement, can’t do anything about it until a particular date is reached, which may not even be suitable to spread slurry. but that’s the way it is. a little bit of flexibility, a little bit of common sense would go a long way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are recent and even positive figures showing an increase in the average incomes of european farmers, and this is the result of a major investment effort by farmers to improve the value of their production. but this average increase hides many realities. it hides sharp geographical differences, it hides income disparities between men and women and between generations in almost all rural areas. i would remind you that generational renewal is one of the greatest challenges for the future of the agricultural sector, and it cannot be overcome without a guarantee of fair, dignified and equitable income for the rest of society. at a time when we are already talking about starting to think about the direction of public policies after 2027, it is important to remember that the future of agriculture is already being decided today by the support given to farmers for the development of environmentally, but also socially and economically sustainable agriculture.
madam president, many people who have no connection to the farming community think that all farmers have a lot of money, and the truth is that some farmers do have a lot of money, but a whole lot of farmers don’t. now, the cap system has certainly got a fair bit to do with it, and there’s a couple of sides to that. people resent the fact that farmers get cheques and get subsidised. well, the reason being is that the eu insists on importing food from countries where people work for usd 5 a day, so we import cheaply, and in order to make that work, we have to subsidise the farmer at home. it probably make more sense if we actually paid the farmers properly for their produce, and maybe the people in the global south might get a fair price elsewhere. but a big problem as well is that, of the cap money, 80 % of it is still going to the 20 % richest farmers, who actually don’t need any help at all. and that’s why in a country like ireland, we are losing a family farm every day as a result of eu policies and irish government policies, who have protected big agri but have not protected 80 % of the farmers who are struggling. we are helping the wrong farmers. ye are giving the money to the people who already have it, and you’re not giving it to the farmers that need it.
on behalf of the id group. mrs president, your fierce fight against hate speech is actually a disguised wokist offensive. you want to protect ultra-minority ideological activists from any protest, and worse, from any public debate or discussion. when i say, for example, that i do not want minors to be touched with hormone therapy and other medical interventions, it is not a hate speech against transgender people, but a declaration of love for children. when i fight against the migratory flooding of my country, our continent, when i denounce the consequences of your terrible immigration pact, it is not hatred that inspires me, but a deep attachment and love for my country and our old continent. in fact, you are no longer in democratic discussion, but in theocratic censorship. you're no longer in political debate, you're in the inquisition. you're no longer in your mind but in curses of a religious nature. you're leading us into a new darkness. let us open up discussions, colleagues, rather than stifling freedom of expression.
on behalf of the left group. – madam president, in the past few months, we’ve seen palestinian solidarity decried as hate speech. we’ve seen claims of anti-semitism being used to downplay the slaughter of innocents in gaza and to cover up for the legitimate criticism of zionism. and with all of this rage in the background, the eu decides to stomp onto the scene with plans to criminalise hate speech. the problem with that is: do we trust the eu to define hate speech? do we trust them to ensure that it won’t be used to criminalise legitimate political speech and action? i have to say, i don’t. this has all the hallmarks of another clumsy and counterproductive neoliberal response to a social problem. it is cheaper to criminalise hate speech than to fund and focus on the strategies that might foster tolerance. it is a gimmick to allow politicians to pretend to care about minorities and racism and so on, while doing nothing to protect them, doing nothing to address the structural issues that lead to hate and intolerance in the first place, structural issues which include centrist politicians dog-whistling about migration. so for me, i think once again, i don’t trust von der leyen’s commission to police my speech.
the commission has already been informed for two years of the commission's communication on the extension of the list of european union crimes to these statements, but the council has not yet responded, while we are increasingly confronted with hate speech, hate speech and calls for hate, violence and hatred, especially on social networks. that's why i don't think there's much to look forward to. i believe that this step does not require a change in the vote in the council and that a reasonable solution will be supported by a majority of the council members. i want to tell my colleagues on the right that protecting human dignity is a fundamental conservative principle, and that i believe that the definition of a crime that attacks human dignity should be supported by conservative mps. what started in ireland with the adoption of a law against cyberbullying, i expect that the very same law that protects children, especially children on the internet, should be adopted at european level. i call on the commission to continue its initiative.
madam president, the minister for justice in ireland published a hate crime bill in 2022. if this was already law, the irish prime minister, our taoiseach, could well be facing a charge of grossly trivialising or denying genocide. in relation to south africa’s case against israel, the irish leader said genocide is defined as the deliberate attempt to destroy an entire nation or entire race, or to do so in large part. at no point does the genocide convention use the phrase ‘in large part’. the convention says ‘in whole or in part’ – ‘in large part’ suggests it is necessary to intend to destroy a sizeable majority of a group for the threshold of genocide to be reached. the taoiseach also asked if the hamas attack on 7 october was not also a genocide. he questioned the indisputable fact that israel is committing genocide, while offering as an alternative an utterly bizarre example for which there is no case before any international court. the irish leader has undermined the scope of the genocide convention and trivialised israeli genocide. he does not speak for the people of ireland.
i think that the report as such on fundamental rights in the european union is important. to say that while we are eager to teach others, we are not perfect ourselves, but we should consider what we have done and what we still need to improve. i personally think that the right to a decent life, as highlighted in this report, is one of the key attributes because we want all citizens to be well. the right to a decent life means to me that people do not live in poverty, that we do not have one of the five children at risk of poverty in the european union, but also that people who work know about this job, about the income they earn, that they can live in decency, and that they can meet all their needs. i also think we need to do more work on freedom of speech, on the right to freedom of expression, to be able to accept views that may not be those of the majority, that may be slightly different, and not to search those people who have different opinions to allow them to express their different opinions. i also think we need to continue to work to support and combat violence against women. as the rapporteur stressed, because this is a very important thing for all of us, and also to support people with disabilities. in this context, i am very pleased that we will have a common card for these people, for the whole european union, to improve their living conditions a little.
the european union is based on respect and respect, as the beginning of this report says. this, of course, must apply to human rights, freedoms, democracy or the rule of law. i repeat, however, that respect and respect must also apply to the principles on which the european union was founded. one of them is the principle of subsidiarity, which means respecting the division of competences between the european union and the member states. this report itself again broadly interferes with the exclusive competence of the member states in the areas of family law, education and protection of life. not to mention calling on the member states to ratify the istanbul convention, which has long been a source of controversy. if we are to achieve full respect for rights and principles, we must first set an example. and so i propose to start by respecting the limits that we have been given by our citizens and that are defined in european treaties. as the old latin saying goes, keep order, and order will keep you.
- madam speaker, please. the report shows a terrifying development in europe. the progress made in gender equality policy over the past few centuries is under attack. conservative and far-right forces are systematically working to undermine women's and girls' rights and take control of their own lives. in recent years, several women have died as a result of unsafe abortions. that is totally unacceptable! denied access by women to safe and legal abortions is gender-based violence. we must fight discrimination in all its forms. you should have the same conditions to live a good life, no matter where you come from, what gender you have, who you love, or what faith you belong to. the fight for equality for all and justice in the eu is far from over.
- madam president, please! it is well known that we still receive a report every year on the state of fundamental rights in the european union, even though the european union is supposed to be based on the principle of respecting only these rights. but even in europe, we are still witnessing attacks on journalists, undermining institutions and undermining the rule of law. we are also still witnessing violations of european law, often with no consequences. as in the case of the extension of control at the internal borders of the union. despite the judgment of the european court of justice, the member states continue to extend the scrutiny. the commission does not act against them. how should european citizens interpret non-compliance with the legislation? are we all really equal before the law? i therefore call here firmly and clearly for the immediate abolition of all internal border controls and for full respect for european law. these are, however, fundamental values to which europe is committed and which it is prepared to defend at any cost, at least in words.
madam president, the eu is above all, a union of justice with an independent and impartial judiciary, so that the european law is effectively applied not just with the legal harmonisation of a member state. compliance with effective implementation of the european law is applied through necessary domestic mechanisms. two examples: the use of abusive and unfair terms and practices, especially by the banking sector in consumer contracts, and the lack of an effective implementation of the european directives, has been stated several times in reports of the european parliament. this lack had a catastrophic effect on consumers, particularly the cypriot citizens, but there is still no progress on the issue. second, the complexity of the european laws and the case law regarding labour, considering also the high costs and the small size of certain labour markets, work disproportionately against the weak party – that is, the employee – than the employer. for this, the employee avoids the judicial process. finally, in both instances, mr commissioner, justice is not served, and the commission has a duty to ensure the effective implementation of the eu law.
we are concerned that part of this parliament is uncritically accepting an unfair, partial, biased and even contrary to the literal and teleological meaning of the rules. denying the life of the unborn can never be considered a human right. it is an atrocity to pretend to legitimize it after the ambition to create other supposed rights. we cannot consider as a human right what is contrary to the natural order. the fundamental rights must be kept in this same coherence to fulfil their purpose of safeguarding the good of our society. reducing life to an available right essentially corrupts our laws and dynamits the security that the rule of law must guarantee.
madam president, this report starts by claiming the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy and equality, the rule of law and human rights, and that these values should be shared and upheld and actively promoted by the eu and the member states in their internal and external actions. and then you think of the ethnic cleansing in gaza. the murder of 10 000 children in gaza by the genocidal israeli regime in just 100 days. the eu council has not even called for a ceasefire. the germans are not only defending the israelis from the charge of genocide at the international court of justice, they have boosted our arms sales to israel tenfold. you cannot carry on talking absolute nonsense about eu values while you are drenched in the blood of palestinian children. the behaviour of eu member states since october 7 is utterly incompatible with the notion of humanity, let alone respect for human rights.
well, honourable chairmen, ladies and gentlemen, very rarely on the agenda do we have such a good report. geothermal energy can make a significant contribution to the heating and cooling of certain areas, agriculture, aquaculture and, of course, energy security in european countries. cooperation within the european union in the field of research, data exchange and technological development is also beneficial and welcomed. specifically, in croatia, the geothermal potential is one gigawatts, and from geothermal sources we could produce 600 thousand megawatts of electricity a year. and while on the one hand the european union is pushing the wind farms hard, which negatively affect our animal and plant world and reward our nature, on the other hand, geothermal energy has no such negative effects. i know this report will not get much air in the croatian and european media, but i think it's important to know that there are projects and plans that are very good for both croatia and the european union.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this discussion. what is remarkable is the consensus across political groups on the relevance of this topic and on the key issues identified. the report sends a clear message that we are going in the right direction, but that we still need to address some issues to go faster, better data and planning, easier permitting while securing public acceptance and more accessible financing. there are solutions to these issues, and some member states have successfully addressed them. we are now at the right moment to take stock of all the available tools, replicable approaches, and remaining gaps. one of the useful vehicles for this, as a way to identify and share best practices, formulate recommendations, and support good implementation, is our ongoing work with member states on the revision of national energy and climate plans. we look forward to working with you, with national and local authorities, and with stakeholders, to ensure that our framework allows the european union geothermal sector to deliver its potential. thank you for your consensus and for your important support for this evolution in the energy sector.
the reporter. the president! - what? my dear fellow! i'm glad that this debate has taken place, that it has taken place, because one of the problems with geothermal energy is its low visibility compared to other renewable energy sectors, and the very idea of geothermal projects is sometimes overlooked. in the opinion of the circulating geothermal authorities, these are sanatorium facilities in iceland, italy, not a heating network in denmark or a greenhouse heating system in poland. and that has to change. this is an urgent task for both the member states and the geothermal sector itself. we need an education campaign and a promotion of geothermal energy. i'm glad that this report and this debate is part of this promotion of the idea of geothermal energy. i would also like to thank my colleagues and counterparts for their excellent cooperation in writing this report. we rarely agree so much in the european parliament. i would also like to thank the geothermal sector, the businesses, the ngos, who have responded very enthusiastically to the idea of this report and have provided a lot of interesting data and insights that we have taken into account. the commission's experts from ener, grow and regi also expressed their gratitude for helping to provide data, clarify and answer questions and questions from members. i would like to thank the commissioner again very much and take him at his word that we will implement the requirements of this report on our own initiative.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first i would like to start by thanking the femm committee and also the rapporteur for this report, and also what she now developed. indeed, this report comes at a time when geopolitical tensions and persistent inflation have led to increased costs of living and amplified the challenges faced by citizens to access basic goods such as food, housing and, particularly, energy. as highlighted by your report and your presentation, women are indeed disproportionately affected by these developments. almost half of lone mothers are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. women represent 85% of all one-parent families in the eu. this means also that their children are affected by the same risk of poverty and exclusion. and your report calls for taking this gender aspect into account while addressing the cost-of-living crisis and especially the energy crisis. and we have to and we must agree. indeed, women and men experience energy poverty in different ways and are unequally affected by energy poverty due to the gendered indicators such as income differences, housing conditions, care for dependent family members, and age. the gender pay gap remains an unacceptable reality, with big differences across the eu. women’s gross hourly earnings are on average 12.7% below those of men, and for women aged over 65, their pensions are on average 29% lower than those of men. these are the main structural causes you also mentioned of women’s higher risk of energy poverty, underlining the importance of the directive on pay transparency. energy and transport poverty are indeed a particular concern for women, and especially for groups of vulnerable women, which i have already mentioned – single mothers or elderly women. in line with the european pillar of social rights, particularly its principle 20 regarding access to essential services, as well as in line with the gender equality strategy, we are strongly committed to support equal access to energy. the obligation to report on energy poverty was unfortunately only partly addressed by member states in their updated national energy and climate plans. let me take this opportunity to call on the member states to set a clear definition of energy poverty, carry out an assessment of the number of vulnerable households, taking into account gender aspects, and outline structural policies to address these issues when submitting their final updated plans in june 2024. structural policies will be key to ensure that the exceptional action taken by member states to deal with the recent energy price spikes – such as emergency income support, tax reductions and temporary price caps – can have lasting effects. in addition, the renovation wave should improve overall living standards for europeans next to its goals of reducing emissions and create more green jobs in the construction sector. this also links to the challenge of women being under-represented in the sectors that are at the heart of the green transition. for example, only 10% employees in the construction sector are women, and whereas their participation in the renewable energy sector is higher than in the overall energy sector, it still only reaches 32%. another important initiative in this regard is the directive on adequate minimum wages, that member states are currently transposing. given the over-representation of women in low-paid jobs, improving the adequacy of minimum wages will contribute to gender equality by closing the gender pay gap and pension gap, as well as by lifting women and their families out of poverty. many women work part time not because they like it, not because they want it, but because there are not sufficient child or elderly care institutions. furthermore, the council recommendation on ensuring a fair transition towards climate neutrality outlines comprehensive policy packages with the aim of not leaving – as you mentioned – anyone behind. this recommendation aims to ensure equal access to education, training and lifelong learning, notably for women, promote women’s entrepreneurship and strengthen the social economy, and also adapt social protection systems. finally, your report highlights that the clean energy transition is key to reducing energy poverty and that women can be powerful agents of change in this transition. we can only agree the energy transition absolutely has to rely on women’s active participation, and on the recognition of their role and contribution. in this context, i would also like to highlight the energy communities: these initiatives, which are often rooted in the social economy, provide an important entry point for citizens, and notably women, to engage locally and concretely with the clean energy transition and promote a socially fair transition in communities. and we all know that developing renewables should reduce overall energy prices and therefore also decrease energy poverty. to conclude, eu funding provides strong support to address the rising cost of living and the impact of the energy crisis, starting from the nextgenerationeu to more targeted instruments like the european social fund plus. our ambition is thus not only to leave no woman behind in the energy transition, but also to ensure that women are equipped to actively participate and shape the fair transition we are working for. and i just have to mention our objective to reduce poverty by 15 million, at least 15 million, among them at least 5 million children. and this is also the best way: reducing poverty to reduce energy poverty.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy crisis and inflation, which are being exacerbated by the prolonged war in ukraine and the sanctions imposed on russia, are upsetting the lives of millions of european citizens. this is a human drama that transcends cold statistics: in the last year, over 41 million people have faced the winter without adequate heating in their homes, a sign of a real social emergency. even more shocking is the rise in the number of cold deaths, a tragedy that highlights the gravity of the situation. this scenario is the direct consequence of an inadequate european energy policy which, by tying electricity prices to gas prices, has created unacceptable speculative conditions. these dynamics have affected not only businesses but also families, particularly those most vulnerable and living in rural areas. the european union, however, does not seem to have been up to the task of managing this crisis. not only did it play a role in creating the problem, but it also failed to take effective action to counter and sanction speculation. in addition, environmental policies, while essential for a sustainable future, have often exacerbated the economic difficulties of households and businesses. tripling bills and rising inflation have forced many families to give up everything that is not essential for survival, including access to medical care and the purchase of nonessential goods. this has created a waterfall effect, paralyzing entire commercial sectors. the crisis has made clear the urgent need for energy market reforms that protect citizens' social and economic rights and ensure their fair access to energy. it is therefore urgent to focus on practical and immediate solutions that can ensure that everyone, especially the most disadvantaged sections of the population, can safely face the winter. the reality is that many people are paying an excessive price because of these policies, and we cannot afford to ignore their voices in such a critical debate for the future of europe.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, commissioner and colleagues, i want to commend the report of the rapporteur. i wasn't a shadow, but i was very struck by your comments earlier, and the way in which chaos can lead to populism, destitution can lead to populism. i think, if anything, the very thoughtful recommendations contained in this report should really make the commission sit up straight, and i very much hope that it takes the findings of this report very seriously. the cost of living crisis that is currently occurring is not one of equal opportunity. a recent survey in ireland found that the cost of living crisis is having a disproportionate effect on women, who account for 6 in 10 of those with the lowest quality of life. the same survey found that 46% of women in ireland are less happy with their financial situation, compared to 54% of men. so why is there a gender aspect to the rising cost of living? women are highly represented in precarious jobs. they have lower incomes and wealth due to the gender pay, pension and participation gaps, and are still bearing a disproportionate burden of unpaid work. the cost of living crisis has a female face, as the rapporteur has said, and the european union needs to deliver on its promise to leave no one behind.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, commissioner schmit, in dublin and across europe women are struggling to keep themselves and their families warm. nearly 30% of the households in ireland are living in energy poverty. calls for help to the charity saint vincent de paul have soared since the crisis began. two thirds of those seeking help in dublin are female. the faces of this crisis are women – saving to put money in the electricity meter, more likely to experience energy poverty and social exclusion, more likely to be working at home and living in cold and damp homes, more likely to lead single-parent households, which are particularly vulnerable. my colleague alice kuhnke’s report shines a light on these issues. thank you to her. we can and must do more to help. a new law, the recast energy performance of buildings directive, will help ensure that those at risk of energy poverty will receive renovation funds. however, we must also provide an eu-funded renovation loan scheme to prioritise at risk families and we have no time to lose.
madam president, commissioner, gender has a cost, and this cost is referred to as ‘pink tax’, a form of discriminatory pricing based on gender-targeting products and services for women. on the surface, it might seem like a trivial concern, but closer examination reveals a system that perpetrates gender-based economic inequality. items such as razors, deodorants and dry cleaning, when marketed towards women, more often come from a higher price tag compared to the male targeted counterparts. period products, which are essential health products, fall victim to the pink tax, resulting in inflated prices solely because of their gender association. this discriminatory pricing exacerbates period poverty and leaves many unable to afford these necessary items. breaking the bank for essential products seems wrong, don’t you think, in today’s 2024 era? addressing the pink tax requires a collective effort. transparency in pricing and challenging companies to re-evaluate their practices is crucial. no one should bear a price tag for their gender, and it is time to put an end to pink tax too.
madam president, digital literacy is not just a specific and lucrative job skill set. it is also part of understanding and navigating the world we live in. if we are to remain competitive, we need to keep pace with the evolving digital world. member states, like my own, ireland, have taken steps in developing a digital inclusion roadmap, which is working to increase digital literacy to 80% by 2030. a major gap i do see though, and continuously see, is in the gender digital divide. we need more policies and programmes like the women reboot programme, designed for women who have taken time out of their career in technology and are ready to reignite their careers in a unique, supportive environment that considers the specific needs and challenges faced by women to ensure inclusivity and equality in the digital landscape. digital upskilling is essential for women in closing gender gaps in employment and income, offering access to greater opportunities, and thus for empowering women to shape their own future.
mr president, we are concerned about the loss of pellets in portugal which affects the spanish coasts of asturias, galicia, the basque country and cantabria. of course we're worried! but the left and the nationalists are only interested in the galician elections of february 18. and that's why we have this debate today. we are very concerned that the spanish government has abandoned its obligations and responsibilities. the left and the nationalists are only concerned about trying to discredit the government of galicia 18 february.... we're concerned about false claims and testimonies. the left and the nationalists are not concerned about this at all. the left and the nationalists are only concerned about february 18. we are concerned about finding solutions for all the coastal areas affected and preventing such situations from happening again. the left and nationalists are not concerned about the damage their campaign against the xunta could cause to fishermen and galician consumers 18 february.... but you know what? fortunately, his shameful campaign has an expiration date, precisely that february 18. until then, we will continue as always, despite the socialists and nationalists, working for the welfare of the galicians and all spaniards, without exception.
mr president, six containers of the toconao ship, 1,050 sacks, each with 25 kilos of pellets. this is an environmental tragedy, but it is not an isolated case: we know that between 52 000 and 184 000 tonnes of pellets are spilled into the environment in the european union every year. that is why, commissioner, it is absolutely necessary that the pellets regulation should include the maritime transport of pellets within its scope. we need a european law that imposes clear obligations on economic operators and transport operators to prevent the loss of these pellets. but we also need, commissioner, a law that establishes a clear protocol on how the 27 member states should act so that this does not happen, for example, in spain, where since 8 december we do not know exactly what the spanish government has done to prevent these pellets from reaching the coast and where the regional governments are wondering whether pellets are toxic or not. for god's sake, they're plastic! it's plastic that's drowning our oceans. really, this political battle is not worth it. the galician elections will pass, but plastics will continue in our seas and on our coasts.
mr president, this, my friends, is an oil spill by another name: the spilling of millions of plastic pellets into the sea off galicia is a crime. it should be considered as serious as the oil tanker prestige spill off the coast of galicia in 2002, or the many other hundreds of environmental disasters we have become familiar with in this plastic age. unlike the transport of materials like crude oil, which is classified as a hazard to transport, there is still no such regulation for the transport of crude plastics. this must change. the petrochemical plastic industries cannot be defended. we should act like the people of skibbereen in my constituency in ireland south, who, when a large multinational tried to build a plastic-pellet factory in their beautiful, scenic town, they said loud and clear, ‘we will not support the plague of plastic’. and i agree.
mr president, overall, the eu was very supportive of ireland during the brexit negotiations and the irish people appreciate what the eu did for us. however, on the issue of fisheries, commissioner, ireland lost out heavily. by 2025, irish fishers will have been forced to accept a 15% cut in quotas – approximately 50 million per annum. this is a huge blow to our fishing industry, much of which is concentrated in a small number of towns and villages. we have seen jobs being lost in our fishing co-ops, and a large number of boats are being decommissioned. so in any upcoming review of the common fisheries policy, ireland needs to see additional quota being allocated to us. it is only right and fair. irish fishers are heavily limited in the amount of fish that they can catch in irish waters. they see factory ships from other member states – or worse, from third countries – entering rich irish fishing waters and catching multiples of what they are allowed to catch. we need fairness in how quotas are allocated, and we need common sense when it comes to sharing or transferring quota between member states.
a uachtaráin, at the recent parliamentary partnership assembly meeting in the house of commons we discussed fisheries, and we’ll be making recommendations as a result. one of the points that came across clearly was that irish fishers, both in the republic of ireland and northern ireland, have lost out heavily as a result of brexit, and we will make recommendations as to how that can be amended. also, we looked at the annual quota, which makes no sense because if we, for instance, had to have an election every year, how could we function? it’s the same for fishers that need a multi-annual plan, the same as in the cap, for at least five years. as well as that, we need to look at processing, carrying fish halfway around the world to process it, when it should be processed as close as possible to the landing port makes absolutely no sense, and that is what we should be doing in the future. and, of course, it should not help third countries, particularly countries like norway and iceland and others, when european fishers are discriminated against.
mr president, commissioner, the common fisheries policy needs to be urgently amended to address the hugely disproportionate impact of brexit on the irish fishing industry. ireland needs to see some genuine burden-sharing, whereby all coastal member states share the pain of brexit equally and proportionately. ireland got an increase in its mackerel quota last month worth about eur 3 million. but put it in context: the irish mackerel sector is the most valuable sector for the irish fleet, but it was hit hardest by the brexit deal, with a 26% cut in ireland’s quota share, which was worth over 28 million to irish fishing. commissioner, you spoke of equal treatment. well, irish fishermen and women need to get a fair share of fishing rights to the fish that spawn and breed in irish waters. the cfp allows foreign boats to catch up to 85% of the fish in irish waters, yet irish ports get no reciprocal access to the waters of other member states. the cfp shafted irish fishermen and women from the very start.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. a3-0315/91) by mr van den broek, on behalf of the left-fraction, on behalf of the left-fraction. the greatest threat is the fishing industry. with devastating bottom trawls, the world's oceans are plundered to the bottom. even protected marine areas are not safe and are being depleted. finally, an action plan is now in place to prohibit at least the most harmful fishing method in protected areas. but even such a logical measure threatens to be blocked by the european parliament. conservative politicians are endangering the oceans and are also deceiving the fishermen they say they are advocating. fishermen, like other humans and animals, have no future without healthy oceans. that is why i call upon you: give the oceans a voice and reject this damaging and shortsighted report.
mr president, the scientific evidence is no more clear: the combined effects of climate change and the loss of biodiversity due to over-exploitation and pollution have left marine ecosystems too degraded to function properly. our seas can no longer effectively fulfil their role as a source of oxygen, food, livelihoods and wellbeing on which coastal communities and european society as a whole depend. this trend cannot be reversed without an improvement in the way we fish and in the way we organise world trade in fishery products, as it should be for trade in agricultural products. this is why we must be ambitious in order to ensure an informed, inclusive and equitable transition towards sustainable fisheries management based on ecosystems. to this end, it is necessary to work with all stakeholders on the basis of the best scientific advice and taking into account all the impacts that changes in the use of fishing gear have on coastal communities, fishermen and the environment.
mr president, commissioner, i hope that parliament will take a strong and critical position on the european commission's action plan and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr herbst. i agree with him that acting doesn't mean forbidden. the action plan is criticizable for several reasons. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take a decision on the basis of the information provided by the commission. if they want to reform the trawling they go to the regulation on the conservation of fishery resources and the protection of marine ecosystems with technical measures. the report we are discussing also refers to the implementing regulation of september 2022 which defines deep-sea fishing zones and prohibits deep-sea fishing with all types of fishing gear in 87 areas of the atlantic ocean, without a socioeconomic impact assessment, without sufficient data, without a sound scientific basis and without distinguishing between different fishing gear, which have completely different impacts on the bottom. and i take the opportunity to ask the commissioner what the commission is waiting for to reconsider its plan, to receive all the data and to exclude the lazy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of marine ecosystems is an ethical imperative which we have before the future of humanity itself. these ecosystems face enormous challenges, such as climate change, acidification, pollution, overfishing. so no one in good faith can say that we do not need urgent measures, nor do we need to adapt fishing gear to the places where they are used. but it is precisely at this point, in the generalization of impacts, that the action plan has its biggest flaw. first, the environmental impact of a fishing art is not the same in all places where it is used. and secondly, we need to know what the social and economic impacts are of the discontinuation of a fishing industry, and what will be done to the communities most affected by these impacts. i conclude by stressing that the commission's efforts to achieve a more consistent implementation of the european union's environmental policy through this plan are to be welcomed. but i must remind you that fisheries management measures always emerge and must emerge from the ordinary legislative process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the action plan presented to the pech committee in march 2023 by you, commissioner, clearly and precisely shows how the only objective is to hinder all fishing activities, in the name of an ecological idealism that is not too far-fetched. i wonder how it is possible to impose further restrictions on a sector which has been most affected by the recent global crises, even arbitrarily banning cod fishing, which is the only source of livelihood in many coastal areas. ensuring food security, the european union's strategic autonomy and a level playing field with non-eu countries should be among the priority objectives to be pursued. we therefore strongly call for an end to this disproportionate imposition of penalties only on our fishing vessels, because the only effect that is being produced is the increase in imports of products from non-transparent activities. we are and always will be on the side of the fishermen and will do everything we can to protect one of the most important production sectors for the italian economy. (the speaker rejects a question on the 'blue card' by caroline roose)
mr president, yes, the seabed is the new eldorado of the 21st century and we know the surface of the moon better than our seabed. it is vital, however, that, like the great powers of the world, we invest heavily in the protection and enhancement of our maritime domain. and i am surprised that since this morning we have finally spoken little about restoring our ecosystems and pollution, mining, land and industrial pollution. algae cultivation, for example, offers us great prospects that are still unknown, particularly in the development of green fuels and fertilisers, and also in their ability to absorb our co2 emissions. we account for less than 1% of world production. the aim is to adopt an action plan from aquaculture to industrial fishing, in a transversal and comprehensive approach, to remedy the obstacles to our artisanal fishing, without clarity and without discernment by the commission, and to make a real contribution to the restoration of our ecosystems and to the sustainability of our artisanal fishing.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the ocean must be a priority for the european union. but protecting is much more than forbidden. in the marine sector, as in all others, successful environmental protection is based on cooperation. it involves all actors, including businesses, local communities often dependent on the resources we want to preserve that sustainable change can be achieved; creating alternatives rather than simply closing doors; making companies and people agents of change rather than targets to be destroyed; making decisions always based on sound scientific evidence and not on ideologies or states of mind. environmental sustainability and economic sustainability are not competing concepts on the contrary. the best way to protect and preserve is to demonstrate the added value of this action to our planet, but also to people's daily lives.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marine environment. we're seeing it now off the coast of portugal and spain with all the plastic grains. but this happens a lot more often. this is a problem, because plastic becomes microplastic and it ends up in the fish and we eat it, so it's a problem for the fishermen too. i therefore welcome the herbst report which says that we must reduce plastic pollution. i talk to many fishermen on business visits and what i see are people with a lot of passion for their work and also a desire to be sustainable. but what they need is customization and clarity. i therefore call on the european commission very urgently: the commission is proposing a new definition of bottom-based fishing. - it can. look at the danish blessings and twins: the commission has also adopted a number of measures to reduce the risk of catches of fish. make that possible! make custom fishing arrangements and choose loving care for the beautiful water world that god has made.
mr president, mr commissioner, my colleagues, i am sure we must have a common policy, as we have for industrial policy, for agricultural policy, but i hope it is not as bad as agriculture policy, because protecting the oceans should not lead to a ban on fishing. there are areas where people live only from fishing and then we consumers must benefit from products from the eu's internal market and not import less controlled products from third countries. i therefore believe that the common fisheries policy and the future prospects must take into account, first of all, the protection of fishermen and what they know how to do and only through dialogue with them can we take action at european level. too often decisions are made at european level without consulting those who know exactly what to do. yes, i agree that we need to reduce plastic pollution, but that's not just for fishermen, and we need to protect fishermen.
mr president, (start of speech off mic) ... to ensure that we have sustainable ecosystems for fishers is a critically important aspect of policy. but at the same time, off the west coast of ireland, as i speak in this chamber, factory fishing ships are scooping up fish and massive quantities of the west coast of ireland, in irish waters. and the solution that has been offered to ensure that we have a viable irish fishing industry is to decommission irish trawlers. so, at the same time, when we’re talking about resilient fisheries, we have to ensure that there’s fairness in how we allocate the fruits of the sea, and the irish quota has been drastically reduced. and the idea that we can explain to irish fishers that it’s fair for third countries to send massive trawlers into irish waters and fish, and we are offering irish fishermen the only way out, and that is by decommissioning irish boats, is shameful. there must be a full review, commissioner, of the fisheries policy; otherwise, we won’t have any fishers, never mind sustainable fisheries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the numbers are clear: 58% of the mediterranean stock is over-exploited; 25% of european coastlines have lost their habitat. but here there are those who deny the problem and pretend to be the fishermen's champion. that's enough! i am just saying to the right that, while on the one hand it tells fishermen that they are not responsible for the depletion of our seas, on the other, parliament and the council vote against the abandonment of fossil fuels, against the directives on polluting emissions, against the directives on plastic. and when it is in government it supports new tribes and re-gassifiers and kills fisheries and mythology allowing polluting industries, such as the former taranto island, the brindisi coal plant and the gela refinery, to continue killing citizens and coastal artisanal fishing. i repeat: i'm going to kill! i'm not overreacting. of course, fishermen feel betrayed. so where are the european remittance funds? where's the money for the fishing stops? where are the social shock payers that have been asking for decades?
mr president, the eu already has a comprehensive body of policy and legislation aimed at protecting the marine environment, but these are not being implemented. this was confirmed by the european court of auditors in 2020. ireland, for example, has utterly failed to meet the eu’s obligation to achieve good environmental status for biodiversity, commercial fish and shellfish and seafloor integrity. only 18% of ireland’s commercially exploited fish populations have achieved good environmental status. the environmental status of 60% of these commercial fish populations is unknown, and the environmental status of 41% of non-commercial fish species is also unknown. if we don’t conserve fishing resources and protect our marine ecosystems, there will be no fish to catch, and we do need to work with the stakeholders and have regional solutions.
madam president, the quality of food entering the european union and destined for our markets is undoubtedly an extremely important issue. the commission has been putting off a long debate on this issue, and just as there is no regard for double standards, the institutions are working slowly and slowly again. for me, the main question after the audits in argentina and uruguay was, when were national institutions, ministries and food inspections known to impose stricter controls on the substances in the meat coming from these countries? i would also like to know whether the problems mentioned are only with horse meat or whether this includes other meat. these issues are of utmost importance in the present case because it may be that the european commission has not done its job and has allowed dangerous meat to enter the european union softly, irresponsibly, especially against the background of the commission's attempts to introduce new species of gmos not covered by the existing regulations and to place them on european markets.
madam president, i am grateful to the rapporteur for raising this issue, because we must make special efforts to ensure food security and also to the food chain. these are really key elements for consumer reliability and credibility, which is a key value i think we must build our union on. the subject is related to good practice in the use of medicinal products, as it raises serious questions about residues that are also present in this mass or in these substances. we are also very much concerned with welfare and i think that the commission's opinion on this matter is really necessary and necessary. i have not obtained sufficient assurances from the commissioner's assurances that we know exactly what origin these products from uruguay and argentina actually have. i think that's why it's important that we get these guarantees. and otherwise, of course, i'm also a full supporter of local production and i hope i've never seen anything from horse meat. these animals are wonderful.
madam president, commissioner, today's subject is extremely important and i regret that it is being put to the end of the plenary session in strasbourg. the health of people is extremely important, at the same time, fair competition on the internal market, because we are now talking about the import of horse meat from argentina, from uruguay, but we have also had import situations of beef from the uk, which has entered the infested eu market. you said, commissioner, you had a calendar. the problem is, this calendar doesn't match the speed at which it's consumed. why should we end up importing horse meat, as said here, from animals that have been injected, non-nivelling? why don't we apply the standards? farms are finished, and livestock farmers, and farmers. so if we don't regulate as in the domestic market... there must certainly be competition, but there must be fair competition and we must protect consumers. that is why, commissioner, you must make this calendar very quickly and answer why so far the standards for meat imports have not been met.
the commission has also been able to provide a number of information on the possible use of the horse meat in the community. in fact, this absurd situation has been known since 2012, when the animal welfare foundation documented the numerous cases of non-compliance with our requirements on horse welfare and the traceability of meat imported from these countries. the regulatory vacuum in this case allows for irregularities affecting crucial aspects of the chain, such as the lack of official controls and criminal activities, such as the slaughter of stolen horses and smuggling. unlike in non-european countries, horses are microchipped and have a passport that records their medical history. this is not the first time we have heard of these facts, but i would like it to be the last. i therefore hope that the european commission will take a clear position on the subject, with timely and urgent action, such as a clear suspension of horse meat imports from argentina and uruguay and the application of european animal welfare standards to food safety in the countries exporting to the european union. only through rapid and decisive action can we ensure food security and respect for the rights of animals producing horse meat.
madam president, global meat consumption has exploded since around 1961, with meat production quadrupling to meet this demand, and we’ve reached a situation where the meat on our plates can come directly from the other side of the world. well, not my plate anyway, because i’m a vegetarian and i think i live longer and healthier as a result of it. but in any case, the publication of the commission’s audits into the production of horsemeat in argentina and uruguay for export to the eu really illustrates the excess of contemporary capitalism and our way of consumption. no matter what the impact on the local populations or the environment, the demands of the european market are such that the rules will be circumvented. we see a situation of smuggling horses, administering medicines that don’t meet our standards, and very little regard for animal welfare. this isn’t the first audit to raise the alarm. the commission seems to be going ahead, business as usual. this isn’t good enough.
madam president, audits carried out in argentina and uruguay highlight once again the major issues with animal welfare, traceability and food safety for these countries. poorly treated horses are commonly given drugs that are prohibited in the eu, and the traceability systems in place are unreliable, as they rely on the honesty of horse owners and dealers, leaving it wide open for fraud. as a result, horses of unknown origin and an unclear drug history, as well as stolen and smuggled horses, enter the food chain, which poses a high food-safety risk for european consumers. the farm to fork strategy, passed overwhelmingly in here in 2021, called on the commission to suspend the import of horsemeat from countries where applicable eu requirements relating to traceability and animal welfare are not complied with. it’s about time the commission took note.
madam president, the incitement to hatred is increasingly being observed in the global space, but also in the european union space. and although the commission presented a communication to the council almost two years ago entitled 'a more inclusive europe', the council did not take any decision. i think we all face incitement to hate in our countries, and it's extremely dangerous. it's gone from verbal to physical violence. i voted for this report because i think we need to take steps to regulate, to delimit what incitement to hate means and what freedom of expression means. we don't want to curtail freedom of expression, but we can't accept it either -- and we have many examples to give, in many states, where even politicians and people from ngos funded by don't know who incites hate. that's not the purpose of mankind, the purpose of mankind is love, not hate.
a terrible story, madam president, is the title of this report the gender-related aspects of the rising cost of living and the impact of the energy crisis. it's a great sketch for monty python or something like that, so i didn't support it. i can't support something like this. the people in this room created an energy crisis with crazy policies, destroyed industry in europe, voted on climate reports and all kinds of crazy stuff, and finally flourished with the brilliant idea of writing a resolution on gender-related aspects of rising living costs and the impact of the energy crisis. dear friends and even you there, wallace there, friends and other friends there! yeah, even you understand that the rise in electricity prices is not about sex. it's about politics, it's not about sex. you have to be a complete delusional to think things like that. that's why we can't support such a thing, madam president. this is, this is monty python.
madam president, the current inflation crisis, much of it self-inflicted by the ukraine war and the sanctions that we introduced that are hurting us more than russia, has battered european purchasing power, a crushing burden on the shoulders of working people. single-parent households are particularly affected, 85% of which are led by single mothers. this winter, across europe, many of them are facing the horrific, impossible choice between heating their homes and feeding their families, too often having to deprive themselves to ensure their children have everything they need. gender and poverty are intersecting variables. working women in the eu earn on average 13 % less per hour than men. they are also more likely to be precariously implied, and to have to reduce their hours and earnings to fulfil unpaid caring responsibilities. for women, poverty can mean being trapped in a violent household, having no access to reproductive healthcare or falling victim to human trafficking. while oil and gas lobbyists enjoy premium access to european decision-making, putting fossil fuel industry profits above the interest of millions, more and more europeans, especially women, are slipping below poverty lines. the eu is failing its people.
i have voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for respect for the rule of law, freedom of expression, equal economic treatment, the rights of persons with disabilities, children and women, economic, social and environmental rights. how can you not vote for it? the point is that in the same plenary session we also approved a stability pact which further strengthens external relations and austerity policy. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain goods and services. this means preventing the redistribution of wealth and, therefore, increasing the gender, generational and territorial inequalities that are the basis of cohesion policy. so when you claim rights that we all agree on here, you have to resort to a simple resolution, but when those rights are taken away or eliminated, then you have to use legislative packages that are binding and enforceable. it is precisely this hypocrisy that makes the european union hateful in the eyes of the people.
madam president, there’s a lot that’s really good in this report, but i had to reluctantly abstain on it because it legitimises the use of spyware against journalists. now the threat to media freedoms are deeply troubling, and we have to do a lot more, but we only ever talk about certain kinds of threats to media freedom. we never acknowledge the others – the hard limits that our politics and our culture puts on its freedom. look at how our media has covered israel’s genocidal assault on gaza. if the media isn’t uncritically repeating israel’s blatant lies, it is tying itself up in knots to avoid exposing them for what they are. it relentlessly downplays israeli genocide, berates grieving palestinians for not condemning hamas enough. israelis are ‘killed by bloodthirsty palestinians’ while israeli bullets ‘find their way into the heads’ of palestinian children. our media gives israelis names; palestinians are statistics. seventy-five years of murder is wiped away; 7 october came from nowhere. every journalist knows the rules of the game and they follow them. what kind of media freedom is this?
madam president, it is good that we look at the situation of human rights in the european union. the problem is not just to analyze, the problem is to implement, to work, not just be a slogan, because if we look now and take a picture of how human rights in the european union work, we can see... i have countless petitions, and the petitions commission has examples from member states where children are taken without any reason and institutionalized, freedom of movement is restricted, as is the case for romanians, because we are not in the schengen area. what human rights are we talking about? i believe that this resolution must continue to put pressure on the commission to verify respect for human rights. and i have another problem: we have ukraine and the republic of moldova that we want here, with us, in the european union, but the romanians in ukraine have no rights, madam president. i have repeatedly made efforts to respect the right of the romanian minority to speak romanian, to use the romanian language, and this is not being respected. so, but in my view, it's not just helpful to regulate and debate, we have to try to implement.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote has finally sealed the point of no use for this parliament and this house. even in the face of the tens of thousands of children slaughtered in gaza, we have not been able to make a useful decision. the right-wing parties have already a majority in this parliament on the issue of war. i was there and everyone was saying the same thing: "israel has the right to defend itself". but israel is already defending itself! he's doing it before an international court of justice. the commission is defending itself against the allegation of genocide made by south africa, which is the only country that has had the courage to do what we european citizens should have done. and i want to remind everyone that israel defended itself using the very words of ursula von der leyen, who in those words legitimized israel's disproportionate defense, a defense that has so far caused more than 24,000 innocent victims. so we don't have to say what israel should do, we have to say what the european union should stop doing: you must stop supporting these war criminals.
madam president, i voted against this resolution because what was initially a mealy-mouthed call for a ceasefire has been turned on its head thanks to the amendment put forward by the epp and shamefully supported by five irish meps. the text that was passed now calls for a ceasefire on precisely the same preconditions as benjamin netanyahu has demanded, dismantling hamas and the unconditional release of hostages. without that, the killing continues. this is israel’s pretext for genocide, plain and simple, adopted by the european parliament. for three months now, we have cheered on and provided cover for israel as it has exterminated tens of thousands of children. and today the vote has voted to reject a call to halt the arms trade, a trade with these illegal settlements. it’s rejected the call to suspend the eu-israel association agreement, to use it as leverage, to end the violations, rejected supporting south africa’s case, while sanctioning iran and qatar, but not israel! this is utter lunacy, an absolute disgrace.
madam president, i voted against this resolution on gaza. it calls for a ceasefire, but the parliament has voted to make it conditional on the dismantling of hamas, the same pretext netanyahu has for his genocide. in spirit, the resolution stands with israel. it’s a document whitewashing and justifying murder and oppression. the racism of the eu runs deep but is bared for all to see here. the resolution minimises the genocidal actions and overt genocidal intent of the israeli regime and demonises those resisting at every turn. even those alleged to be aiding the palestinian resistance are to be sanctioned. yet the endless ships and planes loaded, and loads of military equipment being funnelled into the genocide by the united states, the uk and germany don’t get a mention. netanyahu, the butcher of gaza, said on saturday that no one can stop the assault on gaza. not the hague or anyone else. almost 30 000 dead, 10 000 of them children; 1.9 million displaced, 1.8 million food insecure; starving children are dying from hypothermia; newborn babies with malnourished mothers are only surviving a few days, and the eu is is ok with this? what has become of us?
madam president, i abstained on this motion because it’s the same old familiar dance: hungary blackmails the commission, the commission blackmails hungary. no doubt they’ll cause another dirty deal at some stage. and the commission will trade away hungarian minority rights and judicial independence, all for a few billion to backstop what they call their strategic interests in ukraine. the rule of law is really just another weapon in the hands of this so-called geopolitical commission. of course there’s problems in hungary and in many other areas as well, but this type of horse-trading certainly doesn’t help. but for the eu’s war zealots, the people who’ve staked their political careers on deterring peace in ukraine, who cares? but reality is catching up with you. the united states is rapidly losing interest in the proxy war it provoked and maintained, just as it always does. europe will be left picking up the pieces just like it always is. it’s not too late for europe to play a constructive role in what comes next for ukraine, but as long as fra genocide is at the helm, constructiveness is the last thing we can hope for.
madam president, this motion calls on hungary to behave better and condemns the reported systematic discriminatory practices against academia, journalists, political parties and civil society. it’s a pity the eu doesn’t apply the same standards to all equally. ukraine is a country where corruption is manifest on an unprecedented scale, but which has its membership to the eu fast tracked. in 2021, the european court of auditors issued a report entitled ‘reducing grand corruption in ukraine’. the title speaks for itself. the report found that corruption in ukraine is based on informal connections between government officials, members of parliament, prosecutors, judges, law enforcement agencies, managers of state-owned enterprises, and politically-connected individuals and companies. we talk about academia problems and journalistic problems with hungary’s behaviour, but what about julian assange? how come the eu doesn’t give a damn about julian assange? there’s people working in academia in europe losing their jobs because they’re not supporting the genocide in gaza. the lack of consistency in the eu is soul destroying.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. the agreement and the aid package approved by the council are therefore crucial, as is broad support in this parliament. putin must not win the war. it is important that europe stands unitedly behind the ukrainian people, especially at a time when the situation in the united states is becoming increasingly difficult. you have also given time in the council and rightly so to talk to and about the agricultural sector. i think that is very important. but at the same time i would like to give a clear message to my colleagues at the epp and in so far as it is the far right, or is it the other way around today: the european parliament has also been asked to take a decision on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. there is no future for agriculture without strong climate policies and biodiversity. the problem today is the common agricultural policy, which is not only opposed to climate policy and biodiversity, but has actually brought the sector into these deep problems today. if there is anything we must do together in the course of the next session, it is that the cap finally reforms fundamentally.
- madam president, please! the world around the european union is at war with ukraine, gaza, israel, the middle east. the european commission, as well as a large part of the political left in the european parliament, supports the ideological proposals of the green deal, which often have no impact on food security, such as the regulation on the sustainable use of pesticides under the 'from wheat to forge' strategy. i welcome the announcement made today by the president of the european commission to withdraw this controversial, unjustified and harmful proposal for a pesticide regulation and to start talking with farmers about how we will transform european agriculture. european farmers have reduced their pesticide consumption by 30% without a sustainable use regulation. so i joined the slovenian farmers in a protest in march last year and said that we must not destroy food security as we destroyed energy security. i therefore welcome this measure and good morning to those of you who have now seen that we have gone too far and brought a large part of the european public to the streets, apart from the peasants.
madam president, i believe we keep making a mistake of strategic importance in our approach to ukraine. we define the level of our support according to our preferences and compromises and not according to reality. during the past 12 months, putin has successfully completed the militarisation of the russian economy. the russian occupiers gained additional ground in ukraine. the americans stopped supporting promptly and effectively ukraine due to the endless quarrelling between republicans and democrats. the probability of trump returning to the white house increased considerably. therefore, the level of our support to ukraine is insufficient due to changing conditions. in my view, we have to try harder and better.
madam president, the silence about the genocide in gaza is deafening. the latest european council conclusions don’t even mention the words ‘gaza’, ‘israel’ or ‘palestine’. no debate on gaza in this week’s plenary. a vote yesterday to get the historic icj ruling on the agenda was defeated; only 77 meps supported it. one hundred thousand casualties in four months, 1.8 million displaced, food-insecure, ethnically-cleansed and now starving. over 11 000 children killed by the israeli regime. the un’s highest court has ruled that the palestinians in gaza are at risk of genocide, and we don’t want to talk about it in here. people all across the world have taken to the streets demanding a ceasefire. but the eu stands with the zionist settler colonial project. are you censoring discussion on genocide because you are complicit in it? the eu is dripping with hypocrisy and it is dripping with the blood of palestinian children.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. the long-term financial support to ukraine is crucial. but the most important thing, of course, is that weapons and ammunition are supplied so that ukraine can win the war. after nearly two years of war, some countries have now delivered more speeches than weapons. the political will to continue to supply arms and ammunition is present in almost all member states, but implementation is failing. promising a million grenades is easier than delivering them. f16 jet fighters need to be delivered and ukraine still has too few patriots for its air defense. it remains sorry i have to say too little, too late. it is urgent time for a real defence union with joint purchases and a strong european defence industry. and finally, i will say it again, a european army. prime minister winston churchill advocated it in 1950. can we please get this thing working really fast?
mr. chairman, madam commissioner, i want to see you. this is an important debate. it is a pity that the president of the european commission did not endure to the end. i wanted to thank you for these important statements. words are important. they change reality, but they cost less than deeds. i can't understand why we as the eu are still not actually sealing the sanctions system, why are there still, in fact, many western companies still doing business with russia? i know, i know. we can say here that there are companies from america, from taiwan, from switzerland. but there are also companies from our european union. and that's how they help russia. if a significant, very large part of the semiconductors needed for the russian army, but also for russian industry, come from the west, if russian soldiers are killing ukrainians wearing shoes that they bring from western countries, then you have to hit your chest and think about why this is happening.
mr president, at the farmers’ protests last week outside parliament, a banner read: ‘you promised peace, you promised us prosperity. you have delivered war and poverty.’ why are we still facilitating this senseless and bloody war in ukraine? why did nato block the peace deal that we knew had both ukrainian and russian backing in march 2022? for two years, your decisions on ukraine are based on the idea that ukraine is going to win. well, it’s not looking great. zelenskyy said at the weekend that the war is in a stalemate. they have a mobilisation crisis. conscription age has been lowered to 25. videos abound of young men being kidnapped off the streets and forced to the front. who’s going to fight your war? corruption is off the charts. zelenskyy is about to sack his popular commander-in-chief of the armed forces, zaluzhnyi, and a raft of top government officials. the wheels are coming off. the war is crippling the eu. why on earth are we not making the aid conditional on peace? this is absolute insanity. it’s about time you copped onto yourselves.
i welcome the recent decision of the european council to approve aid to ukraine and the conclusion of the trialogue last night here in parliament on the mechanism for this aid. ukraine has bravely made heavy sacrifices for years for its decisions to move forward on the european path. croatia and all its citizens are well aware of the challenges of the fight for freedom and european democratic values. our defenders, under the leadership of president tujman, faced numerous obstacles and a lack of support for the then weak europe. croatia has not only managed to defend itself, but to prevent further massacres in bosnia and herzegovina, to bring about the dayton-paris peace agreement, the liberation of croatian territories and peaceful reintegration. the european future of bih lies in opening negotiations and supporting the fight against autocratic regimes and those who look to putin's path thinking it will pass easily because of the hesitation of conformists. so we must stay with ukraine to the end, together with our transatlantic partners, and not let history judge us because of our conformity.
mr. chairman, bucha, mariupol, bachmut, these are the names of the ukrainian cities that we all learned to pronounce gradually here in this room because these are the cities where the russian army's incredible atrocities were committed. rape, robbery, murder, that's a demonstration of the putin regime. a regime that threatens not only ukraine but the whole of european democracy. ladies and gentlemen, for two years we've been talking about the need to support ukraine. let's do something about it. it's not time for useless gossip, but it's time for real action. to show ukraine that we keep our word and that we count on ukraine as a future member of the european union.
mr. president, what is this? seventy-two days have passed since the heroic defense of the ukrainians was launched by russia. this is an unforgivable attack on a sovereign country that began 10 years ago when the bloody empire of vladimir putin decided to occupy crimea, donetsk and lugansk. the minsk agreements showed how to negotiate with a wolf in sheep's clothing. it was an attack, and it is an attack, all the time, on our continent, russia's attack on europe, on european values, on european love of freedom. today, ukrainians are proving that they chose our european way of life, not the soviet-imposed, now russian way of life. we, as a european community, have a legacy of eternal memory, which is the habit of evil, how much evil can be brought by victims, and how evil can change the world. and we in europe can never forget that. and we can never tire of fighting evil. the glory of ukraine.
mr president, colleagues, not a day goes by without russia causing death and pain all across ukraine. after two years of full-scale war on european soil, europe has moved very slowly from an ignorant state of mind to a state of alert. i believe it has been a very costly lesson. the council decision regarding the eur 50 billion aid package last week was a much- appreciated lifeline for ukraine, but we need more. it’s merely one sixth of what ukraine needs in the coming four years. this particular war cannot be won by sending obsolete military equipment to ukraine, but military technological supremacy – and that costs money. therefore, estonia calls for an initiative of 0.25 % of gdp to be allocated for ukraine, which equals eur 120 billion military aid annually. together, we can out-power the aggressor. i have no doubt about it. this is for our own security and for our own way of life. slava ukraini!
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, ukraine has shown us tremendous resilience in the fight for the freedom of its country. thousands of young men have fallen, but they will not be forgotten. likewise, hundreds of athletes who defended their homeland and died or were injured and could not participate in the olympics will not be forgotten. we know their faces. i hope at least their photographs will be symbolically displayed in paris. it's unacceptable for their killers to compete in the olympics. that's why we're calling for their participation in the paris olympics to be banned. the thousands of children putin had dragged to russia for reeducation and russification will not be forgotten. we'll help them get back to ukraine even faster. russia must not steal children. today's debate in the european parliament has shown our determination to defend ukraine in its fight for freedom. and we must persevere so that all the sacrifices are not in vain.
mr president, next 24 february marks two years since an unjust and cruel invasion, an invasion which has subjected ukraine and the european union to unprecedented pressure. but it has also shown the solidarity and strength of our institutions. today we see a new proof: the great agreement reached through the mechanism for ukraine, 50 billion financial support by 2027. it is a fund to deal more flexibly with the needs of reconstruction and modernisation after the war, a tool which must reach largely the regions and cities of ukraine, the real rebuilders. it is now ukraine that must move forward in clarifying the role of local, regional and national administrations. we must give ukraine the support it needs, but we must not forget the most important thing: that the funds reach those who really need them. the reconstruction of ukraine must be sustainable and inclusive.
mr. speaker, what is this? we have done too little to support ukraine and i am ashamed that our colleagues in kiev are sitting around waiting for viktor orban's agenda to be told whether or not to get support from the eu leaders. we've done too little and we need to do more. ukraine deserves long-term, stable support from the whole eu, and we must do this as long as it takes. each country should promise to provide guaranteed support as long as the war continues.
mr president, since before russia invaded ukraine, nato was in terminal decline. the scam of european moral superiority wasn’t working. a spent force discredited by decades of illegal wars in iraq, libya and afghanistan. then along came russia and took the bait, and the whole sorry saga went down the memory hole. european leaders parading around chanting about glory, draped in flags, pretending to care about democracy and international law while slobbering over arms contracts. it’s easy to see why you’d want the war to go on, but it’s over. while you’re amusing yourselves with your pantomime churchill acts, ukraine is running out of men and running out of hope. as european economies tank, few believe that victory is around the corner. even the white house is backing off, and your support for israel shows you never cared about democracy. it’s about handouts to arms companies and the might of the us.
madam president, the starting premise of this regulation is that ngt plants are plants that could be obtained by conventional breeding methods. so, we should embrace the science and trust science when it comes to stating what ngts are. they are not genetically modified organisms, as has been consistently portrayed here in this house, where there’s been no honest engagement in this whole process right throughout. we have huge opportunity here, not just for farmers, but right across the globe in terms of food security – and that is a significant challenge in many parts of the world. so, the world is round, it is not flat, and we should use the science to underpin it. with that in mind, this gives us huge opportunities in the areas of drought resistance, a reduction on inputs like fertilisers and pesticides. this is an opportunity to ensure that we can enhance biodiversity, and increase food security, and allow farmers to embrace technologies that are proven for centuries in terms of selective breeding. it’s just that we can do it quicker now with modern technologies. this is a regulation i believe should be supported, and is something that will be good for farmers and for food security and biodiversity.
- madam speaker, please. we, the citizens of the european union, must be able to eat, like everyone else on earth. but the fact is that it is becoming more and more difficult for food producers to produce the food we need in europe. regulations and environmental requirements restrict farmers throughout europe. so we now have a situation where we're going to need plants that grow faster, that need less water and nutrients and pesticides than conventional plants. how else can we feed the population while protecting animals and nature? we need to ease the regulation of certain plants and seeds, which would increase the competitiveness of plant breeders, seed producers and farmers. that way, we can have food on the table for the future.
madam president, new genomic techniques are an indispensable tool for the work of farmers who we see on the streets shouting their impotence in the face of the current challenges. beyond the issues that still divide the member states in the council, these new genomic techniques open the door to drought-resistant plants using fewer pesticides and chemical fertilizers while ensuring greater yields. to those who question these techniques, i would like to remind you that 37 nobel laureates and 1,500 scientists from around the world have asked the european parliament to legislate on this subject without turning a blind eye to scientific progress. it is deeply immoral and hypocritical to reject this dossier for ideological reasons, but at the same time, dear colleagues, to lament the pity of farmers. now is the time to stand with them, to put this tool on the table so that they no longer have to face deeply unfair competition generated by products imported from third countries that use such technologies. furthermore, my colleagues, today we import 98 percent of the protein feed we need into the european union that is genetically modified organisms, because we have no alternatives, and now that we have them, we reject them. so let's be serious, let's vote for this regulation.
madam president, madam commissioner, my colleagues, i'm going to speak from a consumer's perspective. i am the vice-president of the commission for consumer protection in the european parliament. of course, i'm not a professional, but i'm an engineer and i support research and innovation, but it's absurd to apply the results of research without doing an impact analysis. we're talking about people's health here, and if the argument that we heard today that we want to apply this and make a regulation, it means that there is no longer freedom of choice in every state and the citizen no longer knows whether or not he has the right to choose what he or she consumes. if the argument is that we import such products elsewhere, it's zero. because we can ban trade deals on importing what we don't know is good for our health. i would vote very broadly for this regulation if, before and not after, you bring us all the evidence that there is no health impact. i didn't hear this, several colleagues asked for it and that's why i have a big doubt. citizens ask us, do we still have the right to choose something in our lives? where do we go, how do we go, what do we eat, what do we wear? so i think this regulation is absolutely unprepared. we don't have all the data at hand, and we know what happened to the vaccines.
the proposal on genomic techniques in agriculture does not respect the precautionary principle because it exempts most of these techniques from the risk assessment procedure. it also violates the principle of transparency and therefore the right of citizens to know what they find in their dishes. we will have huge problems in terms of contamination of organic farming: organic farmers would no longer be able to claim uncontaminated crops. the possibility of patenting these technologies still stands let us tell the truth to farmers and would lead to a further concentration of the market in the hands of the big agribusiness industries, with extremely negative consequences for farmers. so, dear colleagues on the right, what face are you going to have to go out there and talk to the farmers? you'll keep lying to them. instead, tell them the truth. you say that multinational agrochemical companies could turn our agricultural landscapes into a vast experimental field, with unknown consequences for our food and our ecosystems.
- madam president, please. it is a real scandal how this reform is to be suppressed by new genetic technology in the emergency procedure without adequate coverage. parliament has taken about a year and a half to pass the law on restoring nature. now, in just a few months, nature will be destroyed. the proposed legislation is not evidence-based or scientific; it's purely group-controlled. the new rules will no longer allow traceability, no longer allow labelling of genetically modified plants or products containing genetically modified ingredients, no longer allow risk assessment and therefore no longer provide a precautionary principle. for this, organic farmers are subject to uncontrolled contamination of organic plants and their repulsion by genetically modified plants. consumers are uncertain about what they buy and thus no longer have the power to make decisions about their diet. that's not acceptable. the law must not be passed in such a way that it is in the interests of our health, consumer rights, biodiversity and organic farming.
madam president, this legislative proposal aims to deregulate many of the newer gmo crops. this would mean no risk assessment, no labelling, no traceability and no measures to protect organic and other non-gmo food chains. it’s the result of a massive lobbying campaign from the big seed companies, who stand to make billions of euros from these gmos because they can all be patented. people want to know what’s in the food they buy and what they eat. gmo labelling is absolutely essential to guarantee consumers’ right to choose. this regulation is a deliberate attack on the rights and freedoms of producers and consumers to be informed and to choose. we are increasing food monopolies and restricting freedom of choice for breeders, farmers and citizens. we are throwing the precautionary principle in the bin with this legislation. there’s something fundamentally wrong with europe’s agricultural system, and the neoliberal agricultural model has failed the farmers and the planet.
mr president, the climate law is supposed to be our answer to the climate crisis – all-encompassing, supposed to involve all sectors. but there’s always one that we turn a blind eye to: militaries are responsible for about 5.5 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions, more than global aviation and shipping combined. if the global militaries were a country, they’d be the fourth-largest global emitter. yet we guilt-trip families flying to spain on their holidays, while all of the time increasing the military carbon bootprint. it’s an absolute joke. it’s totally unfair to exclude military missions from climate targets and reporting when we expect agriculture and other sectors to make cuts. we of course need an ambitious 2040 target, in line with the recommendations of the european scientific advisory board, and we have to tackle this head-on. we can do that by promoting peace and demilitarisation, but instead we’re escalating military expenditure. the madness of war has to stop if we’re serious about the environment.
mr president, in terms of the headline target, the commission has accepted the advice of the european scientific advisory board, but it is disappointing that the commission has retained the net zero or climate neutrality framework. we have been calling for separate reduction and removal targets since the start of this mandate; ideally, we’d have three separate targets: emission reductions, permanent removals and net sequestration in the land sector. the final version of the empowering consumers for the green transition directive, which we passed here last month, showed that there is a real appetite in the parliament and in the council to tackle offsetting. the next logical step would be to contest climate neutrality and net zero as climate concepts, and as the basis for eu climate policy. the carbon removal certification framework could and should have been used to facilitate a separate eu carbon removal target.
madam president, so far the eu and us response to israeli genocide has been straight from the abuser’s handbook, darvo: ‘deny, attack, reverse victim and offender’. and if that doesn’t work, just change the subject. so as the genocide in gaza continues, you want to talk about everything but gaza. you refused to put the item on an agenda, an agenda stacked with every cliché imaginable, from venezuela to iran, with pride of place given to the old reliable russian interference. so across the pond, special agent nancy pelosi gives the signal, branding palestine protesters, as kremlin operatives, and like clockwork, the dark insinuations begin in europe. everyone can see what you’re doing. it’s tedious, it’s predictable. you’ve been doing it since 2016 and it isn’t going to work anymore. the mass movement is focussed like a laser on genocide, everyone knows it’s happening and europe is... (the president cut off the speaker)
i am sorry, but this is a debate with a title, and so you should stick to the issue. your speaking time is also over. we will move to the next speaker. i understand your emotions, but we have a debate under a title, and i would therefore ask all members to deal with the issue.
madam president, listening to the debate it is clear that the allegations against mep ždanoka that she provided far-ranging assistance to russian intelligence services came as no surprise to anyone in this hemicycle and, of course, there is multiple evidence of russian interference throughout this european parliament, and it is set out in multiple reports. yet no one has been more aligned to mep ždanoka than the two irish meps of independents 4 change. they have tried to brush it off as guilt by association, but they travelled with her to defend a lithuanian diplomat convicted of spying for russia. with only 11 other meps, they voted not to condemn russia after the invasion of ukraine. they posed for photographs and attended webinars with her. so why is it not legitimate to ask: did you have your suspicions? or are you so naive that you didn’t have any suspicions at all? what a shame it is that ireland elects meps making excuses for kremlin aggression and putin’s relentless campaign to undermine european elections.
madam president, bit unfortunate to hear the irish delegate actually tell lies, repeat lies that were actually in the irish times – and they had the decency to withdraw them – but he’s on a different page. ‘russiagate’, i mean, sometimes this place is beyond belief. the greatest scam of recent times is getting an eu makeover. if you’re worried about russian influence here, look no further than the meps that have been fuelling the war in ukraine. russia now has the largest economy in europe, thanks to the people that are fuelling the war. the german economy is going downhill. how in god’s name? the people that have actually supported the war in ukraine and didn’t want it to stop, you’ve actually been doing russia a favour. are you being paid by russians? i mean, your incompetence is helping russia. putin and his cronies have got complete control of their economy again, thanks to you. you’re a joke, you are. when are you going to grow up? i mean the amount of nonsense we have heard in here today about russiagate is off the richter scale. you are like children. i mean, you know what? you wouldn’t get a decent job in the real world.
mr president, in greece the mass demonstrations of teachers, their students and the whole people send a clear message to the government of the new republic that the private university bill must not be tabled, it has already been rejected. teachers teach the lesson of competition so that it is not a criterion for whether their students will study with their parents' wallets. teachers have lost almost six salaries in 12 years in greece. they demand increases to keep their incomes from being blown up in the middle of the month by the outrageous accuracy of their income and demand an organized housing disposition. the commission has also proposed that the commission should adopt a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the rights of workers. teachers demand a reduction in student numbers per class, adequate government funding, health coverage, cleanliness, because the recovery fund's thick goes to groups. at the same time, once again the new republic government is dragging teachers to the courts, trying to make the strike-by-stand illegal by individual assessment. the criminalization of their fair fight will not pass.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. it is good that we are talking about this today, and i would like to point out with all modesty that this is an initiative of the committee on petitions. in the discussion with the petitioners in the committee on petitions, we were able to focus on three main problems: the first is that there is still a lack of mutual recognition of occupations. the second is the working conditions, which we are talking about today. and the third is closely linked to working conditions; the third problem is the new social conditions. so, teachers are no longer just a means of imparting knowledge: all the conflicts of society are reflected in the classroom as in the glass of fire. i therefore ask the commission to organise the debate. don't argue about responsibilities! we must also be able to support the commission's proposals. education is the future, and the european union needs the future.
mr president, in ireland we have a serious teacher shortage also. many schools say they have been forced to plug staffing gaps by redeploying special education teachers. this will have a devastating impact on more vulnerable pupils. now we have plenty of people qualifying as teachers in ireland, and the problem is not the profession: the problem is the chronic lack of accommodation in the country. many teachers have no option but to move abroad. sadly, this has all been self-inflicted by successive irish governments implementing neoliberal housing policies. between 2002 and 2022, wages in ireland increased by 27 %, residential property prices increased by 75 % over the same period and rents increased by 90 %. the average dublin rent is now over eur 2 000 a month, and that’s equivalent to the entire monthly take-home pay of a newly qualified teacher. newly qualified teachers in ireland earn eur 41 000 per year, but the average salary needed to buy a three-bed home in the greater dublin area is eur 126 000. we have a big problem.
mr president, this is a very important discussion. in fairness to the european union, we are the biggest donor of development in humanitarian aid in the world. that’s very positive and it’s not mentioned often enough. also, encouraging like—minded countries in particular, although that is sometimes difficult to define, to participate in union programmes, as well as free trade agreements and gsp+ are all very positive for third countries, maybe more than europe. there is huge room to involve more people in horizon because if you want to get the best results, you have to get the best scientists. while we have a lot of them in europe, there are obviously experts around the world that we can benefit from, and that’s a very positive development. i would hope that, in the next mandate, there will be an increased budget for horizon because it pays dividends in the long term. erasmus+ is also a great opportunity for our own students within europe to travel to one of the member states, but bringing people from abroad as well is very positive, and it’s good for the overall global society.
mr president, the report argues it is essential the european parliament have oversight on a third country’s involvement in horizon europe. but why, given that the same parliament has turned a blind eye to israel’s involvement in horizon europe? the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and israel establishes the general principles for israel being in programmes such as fp7, horizon 2020 and horizon europe. israel is in flagrant breach of its obligations under the agreement, and the parliament has totally ignored this violation. for years, israeli government agencies, military and security companies that are deeply involved in human rights abuses have been drawing down billions in eu research funds. the parliament did nothing. now they are committing genocide in plain sight and you do nothing. do you call this oversight? if the parliament was doing its job, it would call on the commission to suspend the association agreement now.
the renew europe group and the ecr group have sent the president decisions on changes to appointments to committees. these decisions shall be incorporated into the minutes of today's meeting and shall enter into force on the day of that announcement.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes.)
the vote is closed. (the sitting is adjourned at 12.32)
the minutes of yesterday's sitting and the approved texts have already been distributed. is there any comment? if no, the application shall be deemed to have been approved.
we move on to the next item on the agenda: the commission's statement - the case of dentsu tracking and the european commission's lack of transparency in the tobacco industry [2024/2555(rsp]
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the commission is fully committed to protecting public health policymaking from any undue influence of the tobacco industry. this is also our obligation under the world health organisation’s framework convention on tobacco control and we fully respect it. first, the commission has a very robust set of rules on ethics and integrity for commission staff and on transparency. in particular, the commission requires its top decision makers at political and administrative level to publish information on all meetings they hold with interest representatives. minutes of all meetings are subject to document management rules and they can be subject to request for access to document. these rules are complemented by dedicated tobacco-specific arrangement and action supplied by the commission services, with particular responsibility for setting and implementing public health policies with regard to tobacco control. these dedicated arrangement include limiting meetings with industry to those which are strictly necessary for the development of policy, and the publication of reports of all such meetings. moreover, as recently indicated to the ombudsman, the commission has proactively initiated a process to ensure that directors, generals and heads of service as well as all heads of cabinet conduct an assessment of the exposure of their services to the lobbying by tobacco representatives in the context of health policies and policies related to tobacco control, and take necessary actions. second, the eu tobacco traceability system aims to monitor and reduce the circulation of non-compliant tobacco products which can provide an artificially cheap source of tobacco products, thus impacting on public health, state budgets and legal economic operators. with specific regard to tobacco traceability, the commission ensures that all data storage providers of the european tobacco traceability system, including dentsu, comply with strict independence criteria. these criteria aim to ensure the absence of any conflicts of interest by the providers. ensuring independence from the tobacco industry in both legal and financial terms is central to this policy. third, i want to stress that the appointment of dentsu in june last year as the secondary repositories operator in the tobacco traceability system followed all relevant rules and procedures, thereby ensuring transparency. the procurement documents for the relevant procedure have been prepared in conformity with the implementing regulation on the technical standards for the traceability system for tobacco products and with the principle of sound financial management. it is also important to note that the commission can terminate the contract if the operator of the secondary repository fails to comply with the independence requirements of the implementing regulation, or fails to promptly communicate to the commission and member states any occurrences of threats or any other attempts at exercising undue influence that may actually or potentially undermine its independence. altogether, all the elements i have highlighted concur to build a robust, comprehensive framework with high standards of transparency and accountability, and which is compatible with the framework convention on tobacco control. let me conclude by stating strongly and clearly: public health and transparency are priorities of this commission and the commission will continue to be fully committed to protecting public health policymaking from the influence of the tobacco industry.
in the name of the s&d faction. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. we must earn the trust of people hard, and this trust of our citizens is so extremely important for the work we do here. in principle, the eu is always three to zero when it starts regulating. we are expected to act in the public interest when we act here. a trust we build over years, decades hard, but can be shattered in milliseconds; unfortunately, this house is an example of this. the commission is a good example of this and does not leave any questions open. it is bizarre that a contract for the control of tobacco products is awarded so expensive and then a senior official of the directorate-general for health is given the task of paying for it. yes, this may have been in line with the rules, but a delicacy we have in southern germany has already been and must be prevented. the commission has not yet taken a stand against these torque effects. it raises specific questions about the integrity of the contract and the choice of the contracting party. i have heard you report on the terms and conditions and what they look like. make it transparent so we can see if conditions have actually been tightened, if dentsu is actually the best contractual partner for that. make it a very transparent place. in the fight against tobacco, show the european commission that it is not a typical von der leyen mega headline that we are fighting against anything, but in the end it is just hot air and nothing comes out of it! where are the proposals announced by the commission in 2021 on tobacco regulation and then quietly withdrawn? we naturally ask ourselves the questions if we are to act as ambitiously as we can against tobacco as the main cause of cancer, which is the best and easiest to prevent. why isn't there anything? we see no transparency about lobbyists having access to the commission. yeah, i'm gonna run an internal exam now, but that's not enough. we ask ourselves why we want to fight tobacco but do nothing. and we see a contract that has been awarded where we don't know what it looks like, and where a senior official of the relevant directorate general is working on a strike at that relevant company. let us consider this together as an opportunity to bring full transparency to this issue now and to make it clear, if possible, during this legislative term, how the commission intends to tackle the fight against tobacco. then maybe we can get some good out of this whole affair.
the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the green group, is a very important one. it's the number one preventable cause of cancer. the european union is a signatory to the who framework convention on tobacco control, which requires it, by article 5 (3) thereof, to protect public health policies against the interference of the tobacco industry and its commercial interests, as you have just recalled, commissioner. the eu ombudsman however called the repeated failures in more than eight different commission dgs, including the absence of minutes of certain meetings with the tobacco industry, "poor administration". the dentsu tracking case, revealed by michèle rivasi, is part of the smog, the opaque smoke of relations between the tobacco giants and the commission. dentsu tracking is the company to which the commission has entrusted, without a call for tenders, the solution for tracing tobacco trade in europe. only weeks after obtaining this european market, dentsu tracking announced the recruitment of mr hoffmann, a former employee of the directorate-general for health, who worked on tobacco traceability. transparency is a founding principle of our european democracy. we ask the commission to provide access to all the documents relating to the links between its directorate, dentsu tracking and the tobacco industry. rather than waste time in proceedings, the commission would gain the support of the ngos for the fight against tobacco by recognizing the ineffectiveness and non-compliance of the traceability system. finally, it must publish its proposals for the revision of the directives on tobacco taxation and tobacco products without delay. corruption and conflicts of interest are a cancer for all democracies. but like tobacco, it's a preventable cancer.
mr president, dear commissioner, i guess we can all agree that the tobacco industry, they are the bad guys. and i guess we can see it also if we look at the trade of tobacco and the illegal trade of tobacco within the eu. i think we lose eur 20 billion of tax revenue per year just because of the illegal inside eu trade. and this is something that we have to face with the traceability. but what i think is far more important, if we look at traceability and if we look at what taxed revenues we could have, is also to look at the legalisation of weed because if we really are concerned about how we get people to stop smoking, one idea could also be to legalise marijuana to make sure that less people smoke tobacco. i would love to see an ambition from you in this direction.
mr president, wouldn’t it be terrible if i hadn’t have turned up and yez had no catch-the-eye! revolving doors, conflict of interest and a lack of transparency: the commission has been embroiled in yet another scandal, this time with the tobacco industry. last april, ombudsman emily o’reilly, in a letter to von der leyen, emphasised ongoing issues with maladministration as far back as 2016, with standard practices such as meeting necessity checks and minute-taking proving to be the exception rather than the rule. a report by corporate europe observatory has found that in its dealings with the tobacco industry, the commission has failed to limit contact, refused to disclose information and reactive transparency. with the tobacco industry’s ever-increasing influence used to exploit loopholes and spread mistruths, the commission must make drastic changes to its transparency protocols. i’d like to ask the commission how they can justify the appointment of dentsu tracking without a public tender. i don’t understand why no public tender was required.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i have listened carefully to your interventions, to your questions and to your concerns, and several important issues have been raised in this debate. i also welcome the opportunity to restate our position. as i said in my introduction, the commission is fully committed to ensuring a transparent and open implementation of the tobacco control policy framework that guarantees the independence of all entities participating in the eu tobacco traceability system from the influence of the tobacco industry.
the debate is closed.
mr president, i voted for this file because when the eu delegation goes to the un commission on the status of women in march, i want them to raise a few priorities. priorities like war and its effect on women. how about the women in gaza, where women and children make up 70 % of its victims. no doctor, no midwife, no nurse to support women during labour, no pain medication, no anaesthesia. women have to use tent scraps to soak up their postpartum bleeding. two mothers killed by israel every hour, tens of thousands of babies and children without their mothers’ warm arms to hold them. thousands have been left to scream and cry while they watched their mothers die in front of them. women crushed by the most unimaginable grief, without a moment to recover, watching their children starve, but for the cruise missile feminists in here, there seems to be no fellow feeling – they want the atrocities to continue. that’s not feminism; it is an abomination. i don’t know if god will forgive them, but i and millions of others certainly won’t.
mr president, concerning the association agreements for the participation of third countries in union programmes, we understood that there were rules and regulations around association agreements. the european union has an association agreement with israel, and every rule that you can conceive of has been broken. we have totally ignored our own rules. israel is committing a genocide in palestine; israel has been persecuting the palestinian people for 75 years, and we have no problem maintaining the association agreement with them. i’d like someone in the commission to explain that to me, because i just don’t understand it. what does israel – this apartheid, far—right regime – have to do before we break the association agreement with them? how low do they have to get? 30 000 civilians are dead, 11 000 of them are children, and we have not even contemplated the idea of breaking the association agreement. i don’t understand this.
mr president, this oral question calls for the commission to legislate to allow democratic scrutiny by the parliament of the implementation of association agreements like horizon europe and i think the timing could not be better. why, for example, is israel part of horizon europe? why does israel get 22.73 % of grants under that programme? why did european taxpayers’ money go to fund them in the development of pegasus spyware that was used to target european journalists and politicians? and why is the eu-israel association agreement still standing in the face of israel’s genocide? hundreds of thousands of people across europe are asking for that agreement to be suspended. even lukewarm supporters of palestine in here get it. i abstained on this vote because while scrutiny would be an improvement in the situation, we need a lot more power than that. we need to break agreements when human rights are violated. we need to suspend this agreement now.
mr president, i voted against the resolution. i found it crazy. i actually thought that it brought the parliament into disrepute. i was here for the debate this week, and i have never heard such nonsense in all my time here. where does the anti-russian rhetoric come from? i don’t like the russian government; we opposed and condemned the ukraine invasion on 24 february 2022, but we also condemn every other war. the americans killed over 400 000 along with nato in afghanistan; the americans killed a million citizens in iraq; there were 400 000 killed in yemen, thanks to our support, but we don’t talk about it. i have no particular liking for any one culture or country over another, but we should treat them all fairly and cut out this racism. we don’t seem to tolerate other countries and other cultures. we call ourselves the civilised people, but we’re not behaving in a civilised manner. we demonise the chinese and we talk about a genocide in xinjiang without any evidence, and we ignore a genocide in gaza. i don’t understand this place anymore.
mr president, i voted against this file because the situation in venezuela is very volatile and the eu should stop the situation from escalating rather than engaging in geopolitical games. i mean, let’s remember, venezuela’s gdp has shrunk 80 % in ten years, forcing 7 million people to flee that country. it’s a disaster humanly, economically and societally. and former us secretary of state pompeo boasted that this was what us sanctions had resulted in, a humanitarian crisis, he said, that was increasing by the hour. he seemed to revel in the fact that it was increasing pain and suffering to the venezuelan people, and the biden administration is continuing on with these sanctions. the venezuelan government had reached an agreement that has now broken down, showing how weak trust is. against that backdrop, the decision of the us to reimpose sanctions is really dangerous. we should be concentrating on a diplomatic resolution of the conflict in venezuela.
mr president, do i think that there’s a healthy democracy in venezuela? i actually don’t, you know, but i don’t see one anywhere else, either. as my colleague said, over 7 million people have left venezuela because of the illegal sanctions that have been strangling the country to death since 2017. the centre for economic and policy research found that in the two years before trump further tightened the sanctions in 2019, they had killed 40 000 people. the text not only ignores the carnage the sanctions are causing, but calls for more sanctions, this text today. it blames everything on the government. but have we any humanity? i mean, we actually have blood on our hands. we introduce sanctions to kill the ordinary people. sanctions hurt the most vulnerable the most, not the leaders and the wealthy in the country. the most vulnerable and women and children suffer more. our idea of sanctions is to get the people to bring about regime change. well, we’ve a terrible way of doing it. you say we want free elections in venezuela, but the venezuelan people have been under relentless collective punishment. we’re not going to get a normal election result. why doesn’t the european union abandon their like-minded us partner and have a healthy approach to venezuela and help them to get on their feet? i don’t understand the reason.
