i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 14 december 2023.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. the president of the european commission, jacques delors, died on 27 december 2023 at the age of 98. as an introduction to this commemoration, i invite you all to watch a short video about president jacques delors, the father of european integration.
on 27 december 2023, europe lost a political giant, a visionary, a pioneer. jacques delors was the new president of the european commission when he presented himself to the assembly in january 1985. but our half-room was not new to him. in 1979, during the first european elections, he was elected to the european parliament, where he chaired the economic and monetary affairs committee for two years. after serving as finance minister in france from 1981 to 1984, jacques delors returned to europe at a time of great geopolitical instability. the european parliament, aware of the challenges ahead, sees this as an opportunity for europe to unite in peace and democracy. jacques delors believed in a europe based on stimulating competition, strengthening cooperation and uniting solidarity. he was a european visionary with a strong pragmatic mind and a keen sense of detail. history will remember jacques delors as the chief architect of this extraordinary decade of european integration. the european union today is not to be described without taking into account the enormous impact it has had on it. today, the european union is once again at a crucial moment of renewal, change and reform. we've been given the relay. may the vision of jacques delors continue to guide us in our quest for a peaceful, democratic, prosperous and ever closer union. let us honor his memory by preserving his heritage. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. (the sitting was suspended for a minute) thank you, thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, dear colleagues, today we are looking back at the life and legacy of jacques delors, an honorary citizen of europe. almost a century of life, a century in europe, a century in which europe has fundamentally changed – for the better, i say – and jacques delors had a big role to play in this. in the aftermath of the second world war, jacques delors witnessed how the founding fathers of the european union have given their hands and understood that hope over hate and fear, unity over division, and peace over war are the solutions for a better life in europe. this is what jacques delors also believed in – witnessing himself the first steps of european integration. staying on the shoulders of the founding fathers, he took europe to the next stage of integration. we owe him the freedoms of movement, of people, of goods, of services and of capital in the european union – what we call today the single market, the internal market. this was a flagship project of commission president jacques delors, and it allows us all to live wherever we want in europe, to work wherever we want in europe, and it allows young people to study wherever they want in europe. we owe to him the erasmus programme. we also owe to him the organisation of the budget of the european union in seven-year programmes, giving predictability and meaning to european policies. and he also created cohesion policy as we know it today. and we owe to him a lot of decisive steps towards the creation of the euro. all these make europe more tangible. the legacy of jacques delors is bringing europe closer to the individual, closer to the citizen. the legacy is making europe relevant for each of us. a europe that matters, that improves our lives; a europe that is concrete; a europe that we can witness and feel every day. it is a big legacy. for this, he was made an honorary citizen of europe. this is a legacy that we all have the duty to preserve and to protect and to further develop, as jacques delors did himself with europe – further develop it. we shall make sure that we create a european union that is relevant for the next generations, as he created a european union that is relevant and helpful for our generation. may he rest in peace and may his legacy be preserved and remembered over centuries. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, the union we live in is the jacques delors union. never has a president of the european commission left such a deep impression on the construction of the european project. jacques delors is the man committed to peace, because he always had his father, seriously wounded in the first world war; the social democrat convinced to expand our union and ensure cohesion and a just distribution of wealth among the european peoples; the visionary who wanted europe more because he believed in democracy, in the ideals of justice and equality and in our power when we act together. he is the leader who braved every challenge: from the oil crisis to the internal market, from monetary turmoil to the euro and from the fall of the wall to german and continental reunification. ladies and gentlemen, the best way to pay tribute to jacques delors is not just to remember his achievements. now that there are threats to their legacy, we must explain to our citizens why we are european and why europe is our hope, our future and our destiny. we are european because our long history of savage wars has taught us that conflicts must be resolved peacefully, which is indispensable in a world without peace. we are european because we share the values of democracy, the rule of law, gender equality and the protection of minorities. we are european because our social market economy, which guarantees economic growth and social cohesion, is the best source of progress. we are european because we want our countries to use their power in the face of challenges like climate change, digital transformation, tax evasion or the imperial ambitions of criminal putin. in short, we are european because history shows us that after every crisis our union is more integrated and united. we are european and we must be more european in the future, because, as jacques delors told us, 'europe is a construction that must be constantly reinvented'.
on behalf of the greens/efa group. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. jacques delors was a visionary politician and a convinced european. it has allowed new steps to be taken towards a united europe, a more just and democratic europe. we are living in a historic moment when europe's unity is threatened. but it is more necessary than ever to meet the challenges of our time. it is sometimes felt that in berlin, but also in paris or from other european capitals, there are only words about this unity. but it is through action, as jacques delors did, that we can build the europe of tomorrow. i am sure that a strong and united europe is today the best strategy for our security, and probably the only one that is sustainable, for the protection of our democracy, our fundamental rights or even for tackling climate change. the ability to work together on these large projects is the great challenge of our time. we can do this by drawing on jacques delors's insight and commitment. and let me not speak german: i have been in this parliament for ten years now, and in the european union it seems to me that things are impossible, until they are done. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are fully used. the european union and the european integration process are at the forefront of this. i wish that the spirit of the union would be reflected in the political developments of the next few months and years. thank you, jacques delors. thank you, jacques delors. thank you very much. rest in peace.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am probably one of the most politically distant speakers today of jacques delors, but that does not prevent me from paying him the proper human respect, nor does it prevent me from evaluating positively certain aspects of his political experience at european and national level. first of all, i would like to emphasize the anchoring of his public commitment to a spiritual, religious, christian dimension. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a reason to believe that the commission is not going to be able to do this. as if being truly christian can be an obstacle to the secularism of institutions or to respect for any other religious confession. there are valuable results of its political activity which i like to highlight, such as the creation of the single market, the free movement of goods and people within our continent, the launch of the erasmus student programme, or the special attention paid to the common agricultural and energy policy. on the other hand, there is an element in his vision that divides water between us and our vision: the european union as a federation of national states. we think this is a clear and obvious obfuscation, implicitly admitted by delors himself when he called this parliament "the first and only multinational parliament in the world". that said, the possibility for our political group to converge on the need, repeatedly stressed by delors himself, to fill this europe with a soul remains intact, otherwise it will be only a set of offices and rules, far from people and history.
mr president, commissioner schmit, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to raise the question of social compatibility in public procurement, which is an inevitable condition for ensuring not only european and national labour law rules, but also fair competition within the internal market between european companies and between european companies and companies from third countries operating on our continent. it is absurd that the very political forces which claim to be the defenders of the national interest do not support this measure in fact they are not even participating in the debate thus allowing non-european companies, which make social dumping their main tool for competitiveness, to benefit from our public money, thus creating unfair competition and putting european companies, which are healthy, honest and law-abiding, out of business. it is essential to reiterate the clear connection between small public procurement and their greater control by public authorities than mega-procurement, where the smoky under-procurement instrument often contains the worst forms of abuse, if not infiltration, of organised crime. access to public procurement of small amounts supports small businesses and local craftsmen, creating a strong link with local citizens and communities and thus becoming a source of well-being, prosperity and added value for all. this is why we call for a review of the 2014 public procurement directive, because only then will we have a useful tool for real economic growth and a real demand for social and labour protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our cars are in danger well before 2035 and the forced conversion to electricity, which is so popular here in europe. the new proposal for a european commission regulation on the end of life of vehicles continues to complicate the lives of ordinary people who, unlike you, cannot afford to change a car every season to boast of being greener. article 26 of this regulation provides for the obligation for the owner of a vehicle to scrap it if its repair proves to be unprofitable, as is written in black and white in annex 1, article 2 of which prohibits the application of penalties. so your short-sighted mindset is that it's more economically sustainable, and also environmentally sustainable, to buy a new car, maybe electric, rather than fixing the old one. so before you turn off the engines of our cars, put your hands on your conscience and ask yourself at what price you're selling our future to chinese electricity.
in writing. i wish the belgian presidency to do a good job, which will face important challenges in several areas over the next six months. from immigration issues to a pragmatic approach to climate change, from supporting industry to ongoing conflict issues: the next few months will be crucial in determining europe's future. i cannot hide my concern, however, about the proposal, which has been circulating these days, for the possible re-introduction of nutriscore on the agenda of this presidency. forza italia's position is clear: nutriscore is a deeply flawed labelling system, which does not help the consumer to make an informed choice, but which, on the contrary, risks profoundly penalizing the excellence of 'made in italy' food and wine. we will oppose this form of labelling, which only penalizes our farmers and our small producers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in gaza over 10 000 children have lost their lives in almost 100 days of war, while more than 10 children per day are losing an arm or a leg and will be maimed for life. the war and the siege of gaza have been an indiscriminate massacre of women, the elderly and children from the beginning. in the face of so much suffering, we expect europe to give us the only possible answer: that's enough! now enough indiscriminate killing of civilians, enough bombing of gaza, enough illegal occupation of palestinian territories. we cannot remain indifferent as we have for too many years, otherwise we will be complicit in this massacre. we must tell the netanyahu government that there will be consequences if a ceasefire is not reached immediately. i 'll make you a suggestion . we invite the israelis and palestinians to the next european council on 1 february. the conflict areas are expanding to yemen, lebanon, syria and iraq: we need to have a dialogue before it's too late.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need to strengthen european citizenship also comes from a greater cohesion of the places of political representation and democracy. in this sense, the european parliament and national parliaments are natural allies in strengthening the union's democracy through better parliamentarisation of decision-making. this was also pointed out by the conference on the future of europe and was practiced in that context, where families and political parties worked productively in european caucuses: i would like to say that the commissioner has not yet made a decision. much can be improved, both now and in the context of a change in the treaties, which is obviously better, starting from, for example, the extension of the deadlines for yellow cards has already been mentioned or the definition of an indirect right of initiative through the report to the european parliament itself. i would dare to talk about green cards. national parliaments can also play a very important role in changing the way the council is seen, bringing to bear the full range of political positions and representation they hold, thus improving the transparency of the union's decision-making process.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, mr commissioner, strengthening relations with national parliaments is strengthening european democracy. when the 350 million voters go to the polls on 9 june, it will be a great democratic moment. but european democracy is also achieved through cooperation between national and european parliamentarians. after the conference on the future of europe, and as parliament has just adopted our position on the reform of the treaties, it is essential to strengthen these relations by facilitating cooperation between parliaments, publishing the positions of the member states in the council of the european union and strengthening the role of european political parties in the promotion of the european public space. we are accelerating this cooperation. a living democracy is a citizen who finds his or her rightful place in the european union. this is a priority for the renew europe group. mr commissioner, how and within what timeframe will the commission apply these provisions to strengthen relations with national parliaments?
on behalf of the greens/efa group. mr president, mr commissioner, these two reports on european citizenship and on the integration of national and regional parliaments into the decision-making processes of the european union address the very heart of european construction and its future. the first report deals with the rights and freedoms of every european citizen, regardless of the member state in which he lives and the situation he or she is in that member state. for example, if he is a member of a national minority or if he speaks a regional language other than the official language of the central state, etc. these rights and freedoms must be guaranteed in all situations for all citizens, regardless of political or social contexts. it is even when tensions arise that europe must make even greater efforts to ensure that this is the case and that every citizen of its territory enjoys the full rights and freedoms. the second report is on the taking into account of the subsidiarity of the territories in european democracy. this inclusion of territories applies to member states and their national parliaments which must be better integrated into the decisions affecting them, but it must be extended to regional parliaments with legislative powers, particularly in the areas of competence implementing european policies. this is particularly true in crossborder regions, especially when they are linked by a single language on both sides of a border. too often, states feel they have the right to create barriers between historically close peoples. it is therefore up to europe to guarantee freedom of movement for citizens when it is thus hampered. by helping to strengthen the safeguarding of the rights and freedoms of european citizens and by bringing the european union closer to its natural and historic territories, these two reports make proposals which will increase the accession of all citizens and peoples, including a nation without a state, to european construction. the treaties will have to be consolidated on these two issues, in the spirit of these two reports of initiative. our group will vote for it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, both reports on the implementation of the treaty provisions, respectively, on national parliaments and on eu citizenship being discussed today, are a perfect example of how the european centralist mainstream is trying to take over the member states’ competences and transfer them to the european level. the report on national parliaments puts forward excessive and detrimental proposals and is written from this centralist perspective, emphasising creating a european political sphere revolving around european political families, interfering in the affairs of the member states. it does not adequately treat national parliaments as fully-fledged european political actors. it portrays them as secondary political actors subordinate to the european parliament. it flatly rejects the red card procedure to repeal eu laws, as proposed during the works on the treaty change by the european conservatives and reformers group. this report advocates direct engagement of european political parties in campaigns, in campaigns for european elections and in referenda in member states, thus neglecting the diversity and autonomy of the national political scenes. the ecr will vote against this report. the second report concerning eu citizenship is even more controversial, as it proposes to strip the member states of their most fundamental and exclusive prerogatives. let me remind you that eu citizenship is, according to the eu treaties, closely linked and dependent on the nationality of member states, and granting citizenship is an exclusive competence of member states. there is – and should never be – no other way to obtain eu citizenship than by obtaining the nationality of a member state and citizenship of a member state, according to rules which are specific to each member state and take into account their traditions and constitutional order. granting eu citizenship to third country nationals without them obtaining citizenship of a member state would go against the treaty order. the ecr will vote against the second report also.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the angel report has the merit of reflecting on ways of increasing the influence of the national parliaments of the member states of the union on the european political process. but i am not disappointed in his attempt to make them the supplements of the european parliament in order to help it overturn the council's primacy. and i'm telling you clearly, i don't want this instrumentalisation. i would like to see the national parliaments really strengthen their influence on the european political process and propose three solutions to this end. one: revitalizing the yellow card and orange card procedures which should have allowed the third and the majority of national parliaments respectively to request or force the commission to reconsider its proposals and which have been shown to be a staggering failure. the threshold for the fourth and third quarters should be lowered respectively if the system is to be viable. secondly, the introduction of a red card procedure to enable a majority of national parliaments to repeal a directive or regulation which they do not want. thirdly, to strengthen interparliamentary meetings to enable national parliaments to agree to a greater burden on the european parliament which is too inclined to legislate in the isolation of its brussels stronghold. i call for a change of philosophy so that the natural partners of the european parliament are no longer the commission and the lobbies, but the national parliaments and the people they represent.
in the name of the left faction. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. first of all, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs and all the shadow rapporteurs for good reports, which we should not underestimate their importance for the future of citizenship of the union. i would like to stress, however, in particular, that the citizenship report of the union is an offensive report which presents a central challenge to european policy. many people are not aware of their citizenship and do not exercise their rights under the treaties. it is therefore necessary to identify instruments and means and to summarise them in the statute of the citizenship so that they can and will exercise their rights. we are also concerned that the commission will be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the european citizenship is fully integrated into the european union. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the basis of the draft budget. and finally, mr president: the future conference already called for strengthening european identity and citizenship. let's put them into reality. confident citizens of the union are also a guarantee of closer cooperation between the european parliament and the national parliaments of all member states in the interests of community responsibility in and for the european union.
mr president, commissioner, our union was born last century as a better tool for peace and with the long lights on a horizon of prosperity. in the last few decades, as you have mentioned, we have faced many challenges. the first of these was the construction of european citizenship, which has been present since the very beginning of what is now the union and which has been consolidated over the decades thanks to the work of all. thirty years after the maastricht treaty, i think we can say that thanks to iconic programmes such as erasmus, there is no doubt that europeans feel citizens of this union: nine out of ten spaniards do and three out of four would like more decisions to be taken at european level. another key challenge in this prosperity horizon was to cross the bridge from one century to another, and that involves making the digital transition. if european citizenship is characterized by the link between the citizen and the union, which is embodied in rights, obligations and political participation of citizens, none of these issues can be done outside of technology, but neither can technology leave anyone behind. this reality of today makes our lives run simultaneously in the virtual world and in the physical world, and so we must be able to incorporate it into the framework of everything we have built up over these decades: all rights, all obligations and also political participation. we must take all this into account, ladies and gentlemen, because europe is with the young or it will not be; it is with the families or it will not be; europe is with the citizens or it will not be.
mr president, a few months before the european elections, it is essential to recall the rights of citizens and to propose improvements in their implementation. our colleague maite pagazaurtundúa stresses these aspects. in our union, ladies and gentlemen, the rights of a mediumsized member state are not really respected. this member state is often forgotten, neglected, and left behind. this should mobilize all of us, but in fact, nothing is being done. yes, ladies and gentlemen, i am talking about more than 13 million european citizens, over 13 million, who live in another member state and are not informed about the right to vote and be elected to the european parliament at local level, everywhere in europe, regardless of their nationality. they live in europe every day and, paradoxically, they are often made too difficult to exercise their first right to vote, that of local democracy and european democracy. we must do everything we can to remove these unacceptable and outdated barriers to the elections of 9 june 2024. let's not waste any more time.
mr president, dear colleagues, commissioner, the european union needs regulations for a european citizen in the true sense of the word. almost five years ago i launched a campaign with my colleagues from pes activists romania, in which i collected tens of thousands of signatures from romanians who support european citizenship. it is clear that all citizens of the member states must enjoy all rights and be treated equally, wherever they are in the european union. we need to ensure that documents and studies are fully recognised, that social rights and benefits can be easily transferred, including pensions and child allowances, that there are no longer any differences in treatment and that intra-european mobility is complete. romanians, italians or swedes are all europeans, and this involves knowing our rights, and how the european union works. i therefore propose the creation of a common european education programme, which is essential for the future of the eu. if you have well-informed european citizens, we'll have a really strong europe and member states.
mr president, i think the role of national parliaments in european affairs is largely underestimated. the national parliaments ratify the treaties. they have the final say on the contributions of the member states to the union budget. national parliaments ratify directives and have a control power over the national executive involved in the european legislative process. in addition, if they wish, they are involved in the control of subsidiarity and proportionality, not to mention their role as political drivers. to this end, the idea of a european week to allow european policy-makers to discuss the european agenda with national meps seems to me to be at the crossroads of common sense. the proposal to increase the time for national parliaments to study legislative proposals from 8 to 12 weeks is also in line with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i am deeply convinced that any member who is constantly updated on the priorities and positions of national parliamentarians, and that a member who is updated on work at european level is and will remain a must. as for the european parliament, we should rethink how we exchange with our national parliamentary colleagues. very often, these meetings, which are regularly held in brussels, are quite disappointing because they are basically a series of monologues. the more people, the more monologues and the less interaction between participants. it would be a shame to continue this practice indefinitely.
mr president, we have a joint debate on two very important issues: the role of national parliaments in the adoption of european legislation and then citizenship of the european union. it's a bit of a shame that we're so busy with such important topics that are completely unrelated, we're all in this one debate. i would therefore like to address at least the first point, which is the role of national parliaments. i consider it extremely important. i always felt that way even when i was in the czech parliament and then in the ministry of justice. and we should really analyse how real the role of national parliaments in the legislative process in the adoption of european legislation is and how much the opinions of national parliaments really influence the final form of european legislation. i also see from the practice of my country that, in short, the eight weeks for the reasoned opinions of the national parliaments on the proposed european legislation is extremely short. obviously, we're not going to change it, because it's given by primary legislation. on the other hand, there has been a longstanding discussion of a possible interpretation of this deadline, where we can achieve a more satisfactory approach to that deadline. unfortunately, these proposals are only on the table and the commission has not yet adopted an opinion on them. i think that the deadline is something that, in my view, has a significant impact on whether or not national parliaments take the draft european legislation seriously. unfortunately, time is limited in this way, but this subject of the opinions of national parliaments should be debated further in the future, because i think there is something to improve. so is the yellow card process.
mr president, we are discussing two reports today which are important for the proper implementation of the treaty of lisbon and for the proper functioning of european democracy. one on the participation of national parliaments in the european project, the other on european citizenship rights. and the message of this parliament is clear: in one case or another, we can and must do more and better. the role of national parliaments in their primary role of scrutiny of the governments sitting at the council table, but also in the dynamics of european politics itself, needs to be given greater importance. and we must also do better in the recognition and strengthening of citizens' rights, by making these rights known, removing obstacles to their exercise and promoting a more participatory european democracy. in the year of european elections, we must remember that the most important political right of european citizens is the right to vote. and to combat abstention, we must educate the citizens about the importance of european elections, inform citizens on the move about their right to vote and facilitate the exercise of the right to vote for all. but european democracy does not end on election day. only a more participatory democracy will be worthy of this name and honour the commitments made at the conference on the future of europe.
mr president, after two years of hard work to organise and launch a conference on the future of europe, with the participation of civil society in this parliament's own seat, it seems impossible not to support an initiative report which seeks to strengthen european citizenship, systematizing the whole case law of the court of justice on the world's highest standard of protection of citizens' rights, but also removing the obstacles that still exist to free movement, to same-sex couples, to the exercise of the right to vote depending on who does and where and for consular protection. this is a report which also aims to eliminate visas and gold passports, the abuse of which undermines the principle of european citizenship, and to teach europe's culture and history so as not to repeat the mistakes of the past because lessons are final and which also allows for a sense of belonging and inclusion of all european citizens in this great project we share.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first and foremost, i would like to thank you for the good debate on these two very important reports, which confirm how high on the priority list this is of this house and how the honourable members are looking at the important involvement of national parliaments in eu decision making and ensuring citizenship rights. the commission, as i stated in my introductory remarks – and i think after this debate it was clearly reconfirmed, as this is very important for you, honourable members – we clearly stand ready to strengthen the dialogue with the national parliaments through the established channels of communication, and also to improve the cooperation to facilitate the input of the national parliaments and to get feedback from them on the commission’s political and legislative initiatives. i realise that many of you intervened on the perceived short timeframe of eight weeks for subsidiarity scrutiny which, as you know, is clearly stated in the annex to the treaties. but i would like to reassure you that when it comes to this eight-week subsidiarity scrutiny deadline, we have been showing our flexibility, especially when it comes to excluding both winter and summer breaks. we have also been showing flexibility during the difficult covid times and we have always been in close contact with the national parliaments to make sure that we would provide them with additional information when we are coming with the concrete initiatives, and we have been inviting them to comment on our proposals early on, including on the commission’s work programme. i can assure you that if you look at the statistics and the detailed answers we are providing to the national parliaments, which i am signing every single day, that this dialogue between the national parliaments and the commission is indeed very, very lively. i also would like to thank all the honourable members for their interventions on the important topic of eu citizenship, and i really would like to reiterate that it is crucial for us that we ensure that all eu citizens are fully aware of their citizenship rights and can fully benefit from them. the citizenship package that was presented is already an important step in that regard, but we are, of course, committed in the commission to ensuring that it would continue to build on the further development of eu citizenship, and to work closely with you. i really would like also to thank the honourable mr lópez aguilar for his ideas, because, of course, citizenship has wider meaning that just the legal status – all the references to education, culture, transferability of rights are very important if you are living in a united european union, and it is our common duty to make sure that we will make it as smooth and as efficient as possible for our citizens.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr vice-president, i would naturally like to thank all the colleagues for their contribution and i would like to draw attention to three points which were actually present in the debate. the first point is that the main function of national parliaments is to monitor national governments, and that is a european function. and that is why i say it is essential that we make progress in the transparency of votes in the council. parliament can only check whether its government is following parliament's guidelines or what positions it is defending in the european union if it knows how it voted in each council formation. and therefore this would be a very, very simple way of leveraging the powers of national parliaments, just in order to carry out their main task. then there were several colleagues here who spoke on the green card and especially the red card. i must say that, after all the parliaments, none of them wanted the red card - not for this report, but for an earlier report. second point: green card, i say again the european parliament has no legislative initiative and therefore the legislative initiative cannot be given to national parliaments, nor can they be transformed into a third chamber. so that doesn't make sense. the national parliaments, i say again, have their main role, indeed, at national level. and then, yes, we should increase interparliamentary dialogue. i would add, however, that the representations of national parliaments must be diverse, that is to say, they must be composed of the majority and the opposition. and the reports and opinions of national parliaments should always include the statements of minorities, because the great advantage of national parliaments' participation at european level is that it brings internal diversity, because the national position is already taken by governments. it is therefore this internal diversity that must be brought to european level. this can only be done through adequate representation of national parliaments.
the rapporteur. i would also like to thank the honourable members who have worked on this report and all those who have intervened in this debate. in fact, in order to say something to the commission with the same enthusiasm as mr lópez aguilar, i must say that both mr ruiz devesa and mr lópez aguilar, mr doleschal and mrs collado have spoken about the key questions: how do we bring the greatest added value in the 21st century to european citizenship coming from the end of the 20th century? by updating everything digital, by investing in youth, by taking into account that the world has changed extraordinarily and that now every european citizen is key to the institutions, to the democracy of the future. we must therefore invest and be courageous, as in their day those who proposed and made european citizenship a reality did. we too must be brave, understanding the present time, and my colleagues could not have said it better than i could. let us bet on the things we are pointing out in this report. we thank the package, of course, especially in the consular question, which is very concrete and very necessary, but we also believe in the citizenship statute and in the proposals we make. we are investing in european citizenship, which is investing in the critical infrastructure most needed in these times of harmful interference by third countries.
the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow. declarations in writing (article 171)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the fight against the resurgence of neo-fascism in europe, also based on the parade that took place in rome on 7 january (2024/2509(rsp)). i would like to inform you that due to conflicting obligations, the council presidency cannot be present for this debate, which was added to the agenda on monday.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to open this debate on fighting the resurgence of neo-fascism. let us remember europe is still the beacon on democratic standards globally. but the world is ever more volatile. there are multiple conflicts, and there are many foreign actors who have an interest in eroding our democratic standards. there are also actors in the member states who are attracted to the idea of a strong man approach to power, rejecting not just the international order, but rejecting also the domestic rule of law, rejecting the principles of liberal democracy. these actors are thankfully still the exception. but even on the margins, the activities from neo-fascist groups can bring great risk. so i come with a clear message: when it comes to fighting neo-fascism, it is essential that we act quickly and decisively, and it is essential that we act together because democracies die when democrats fail to act. let us remember what neo-fascism is. it is not a challenge in a democratic system, it is a challenge to the democratic system – and that challenge comes with a corrosive effect on acceptable discourse, on media freedom, on rule of law. it is a rust that sets in. it goes slowly until it goes quick, and then it is too late. the remedy is quick and regular action until the threat recedes. so i was heartened to see the protest in berlin and potsdam last weekend, and heartened to see chancellor schulz and foreign minister baerbock among their number. thousands took to the streets in defence of democracy, against fascism and racism, and specifically against the revelation that an extreme right meeting had taken place in potsdam last november. but this is not the only recent instance, of overt neo-fascism. again, only last week, a crowd gave a well-drilled fascist salute at a rally in rome. italy’s foreign minister has rightly condemned this episode. these incidents are individually troubling in their scale, but they are also troubling in their connections. there is evidence that through online communication, invitations and attendance, there is growing participation of neo-fascist groups across member state lines – a european nation, a europeanisation of anti-democratic forces. this makes the rise in neo-fascist incidents a european problem. the commission has put the fight against hate crime at the top of the agenda. article two of the treaty and in the charter of fundamental rights is clear: hate speech and hate crime are incompatible with the values of the european union and fundamental rights. on 6 december last year, the commission, under the guidance of vice-presidents jourova and schinas and commissioner reynders and dalli, published the communication on ‘no place for hate’. this proposed the following actions: more money towards protecting people and the places in which they worship; a new code of conduct on countering illegal hate speech online; upgrading our anti-racist eu anti-racism, anti-semitism and anti-muslim hatred coordinators as designated envoys. in addition, our radicalisation awareness network saw very early the need to invest in work against the risk of right-wing extremism. it is a daily fight that requires the mobilisation of all resources. we need to do more to protect democracy. in june this year, millions of europeans will vote in the european parliament elections. there is no greater celebration of our liberal, democratic and european system – and no greater compliment to that system than the prediction of another increase in turnout, a sign that a healthy democratic pulse beats in the eu. but we have to make sure that those who vote do so on the basis of information and not disinformation, because this information is becoming the fast lane to fascism. to fight the threat of disinformation in november 2021, the commission presented its proposal on the transparency and targeting of political advertising. this was a part of its democracy and integrity of elections package. the proposed regulation will introduce a high standard of transparency for political advertising services in the union. it strengthens accountability by empowering citizens and interested entities in the democratic process, and supports national authorities in performing their oversight tasks. it deters the misuse of political advertising, including foreign interference. i am again heartened by the actions of the parliament and council who reached political agreement on this proposal. as you know, honourable members, this mandate has not been an easy one. the challenge of the pandemic, the russian invasion of ukraine, the cost of living crisis across the european union – all these have tested people across europe. it has led to understandable frustration and even alienation. our job is to address those frustrations with well-thought-out policies and to make sure that the frustration is not exploited, it is not cultivated and amplified and eventually distorted and weaponised expressly to create divisions in our societies. this is where the risk of neo-fascism and the reality of foreign interference intersect. we need to act fast when we see a familiar threat, even if it wears a new mask. we know it as we see it and we will oppose it.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if this debate had ended with the word 'europe', or if after the word 'europe' it had written 'also based on the facts of 7 october', 'on the nazism that emerged on 7 october', we would probably be talking about something much more serious today. this kind of debate has been called for, almost making it seem that italy is not a democratic country: in italy, the apology of fascism is a crime, it is foreseen as a crime and the people who have been stained by this crime will be prosecuted. but are we sure that in these days nazism and fascism have been adequately fought by those who want to justify in some way what happened on 7 october? how many voices have been raised, from the same ones who complain about the behaviour that took place in rome, to what happened to israeli women on october 7? a ferocious nazism that we saw live again in the new york times story: violence suffered, women raped, killed, torn from their homes. the first is that the european parliament has not yet adopted a resolution on the situation in the european union. there are no good and bad dictators, no good and bad violence, no good and bad fascism! and then we must imagine that this parliament, as well as having the capacity to raise its voice against those who cry out for fascism, raising its hand to heaven and saying the roman salute, condemns, without question or question, the terrorist violence that was carried out on 7 october and does not hide behind a responsibility that is to be attributed to israel.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to say this very clearly in this chamber: the new fascist and neo-nazi organizations are being dissolved and their promoters prosecuted under the law. no tolerance is possible towards intolerants. our european democracy, born of the resistance, must be defended by those who want to infect it with the virus of nationalism, which in this very hall was defined by mitterrand as: war, then violence, superstition, the end of freedom. so what happened at the acca larentia memorial in rome offends our memory and our history; the fascist greetings that were given in that circumstance are a fluke that has, alas, gone around the world. but unfortunately, i am not the only example of what is happening in europe and particularly today in italy: we know, for example, that the italian state prosecutor's office, on the advice of the government, opposes compensation to families affected by nazi-fascist crimes, opposing surreal reasons to block access to the fund, even established. this is a shameful matter which will need further investigation, and we will soon promote these same european institutions. but we cannot remain silent about the unacceptable silence of the government and prime minister giorgia meloni in the face of the arrest, for a year in budapest, of the italian town of ilaria salis, precisely for charges related to a clash with neo-nazi groups: the european parliament has also been asked to take a decision on the basis of the commission's proposals. the european elections ahead are a chance for us to take a different path to defend our values and to protect our future. we will not back down and with the democratic vote of the citizens i am sure we will bring these ideas forward and those who carry them forward in the closet of our shame.
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, let’s not forget that our european union arose from the ashes of extremist rule. we said at the time ‘never again’. let’s make sure that those dark days never return. let’s speak out before they return. we see the first signs. i hear the european commission say ‘yes, but the foreign minister has condemned this’. yes, but there has been a conspicuous silence on behalf of the italian prime minister, somebody who is a member of the european council, taking decisions that affect all european citizens. so what does this mean for europe? what does it mean for the ecr group, because not all members are comfortable? what does it mean for the epp group, massively present here as we can see? isn’t the epp getting increasingly uneasy about their flirtation with prime minister meloni? mr weber – who is not here – do you still think that prime minister meloni, who refuses to condemn the hitler salute, is a good ally? is it still power before principles for the epp? ms von der leyen, who will, i understand, be visiting prime minister meloni this week in the context of the floods; i would be interested to know if the president of the european commission will ask prime minister meloni to speak out to condemn the hitler salute, because we said ‘never again’ in europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year hundreds of post-fascists gather in rome to commemorate the deaths of acca larentia, also victims of the ideological delusion that marked a generation of black and red extremists in the 1970s. so hundreds of post-fascist protesters are renewing their status as comrades in the streets: it happens every year, it's true. but now in italy there is a party that follows that tradition, and there are high-ranking officials who do not want to cut the bridges entirely with that tradition. in front of these images, there are those who minimize, those who enjoy, those who keep quiet. george meloni is quiet. you, head of the government of the italian republic, born on the values of the anti-fascist resistance, are silent. unfortunately, italy has never been able to deal with fascism, let us say, and with it, in part, europe. this silence, this silence-absence! legitimizes the demands it draws from which the social fabric has never ceased to be concerned. that's enough! no to the silent consent: fascism, and everything floating in and around it in italy, is unconstitutional. remembering the dead is legitimate. to renew an idea that was wiped out by the resistance and, worse, to endorse the slogan is unacceptable. europe must not remain silent in the face of the cultural attempt in italy to re-read history and to circulate the deadly virus of a reactionary and intolerant culture.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this empty house, deserted by the same members who wanted this debate, explains how much more important it is for anti-fascists in the living room to find a place in the restaurant than among their benches here in parliament. on the other hand, their aim was to defame italy and the objective was achieved; i regret that the italian left, which is still unable to understand the reasons for its political and electoral failure, is also taking this opportunity. let us start with the title of this debate: "the fight against the resurgence of neo-fascism in europe, including in relation to the parade that took place in rome on 7 january". first of all, it was not a parade but a memorial service, the same one that has been held for 40 years, every year. the same one in which, apart from the homage of citizens and institutions, unfortunately some far-right militants used to give the roman salute, but which over the years have become less and less distant. yes, because in these more than 40 years of italian rule there have been successive parties of every political color: prime ministers such as draghi and conte, craxi and andreotti, prodi and d'alema. the commemoration of acca larentia has always remained the same. only the number of people who say the roman salute has changed: today, there are a few dozen, whereas in the past, there were a few thousand. and that greeting, so anachronistic, in some ways grotesque, never even had the political meaning of apologizing for fascism, so much so that the judiciary almost never condemned it as a crime, considering it for what it really is: a funeral gesture, a small gesture within a tragedy too big to be forgotten, that of innocent young boys slaughtered by communist terrorism. we would like to talk in this house about the victims of political terrorism, all the victims, whatever party they are. it was not possible because the italian democratic party and the groups of the european left prevented it yesterday. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. have a good time. we will continue to cultivate respect for the ideas of others and love for our people.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, zero growth, gdp running almost everywhere except in the eurozone, the german economy which is very sick in europe. in fact, in the case of debates, it might be interesting to do one also with regard to what is happening on the german streets. in this context, how is the plenary held? with a timeless, instrumental debate coming a few decades late, halfway between a broken disc and a trivial weapon of mass distraction. but this is not the first time we've seen ghost fishers glow in this room. so zero sense of priority and another missed opportunity. we could have discussed the extremes of the right and left more in a balanced way, perhaps opening up a debate on the cultural heritage of the early years, but we preferred to use this house for two hours, involving some 70 translators, for the sole purpose of campaigning. the biggest problem is not extremism but the great injustice, by the way, is represented by too many innocent massacres. my political history is clear and unambiguous, and i am the least qualified person to defend those who shrug their shoulders or who refer to any kind of extremism, but now we need to give an answer to those who are afraid, to those who do not arrive at the end of the month, to those who are disadvantaged. it is useful to give perspective to those who sometimes, with little knowledge of history, take refuge in extreme attitudes. but let's stop looking for ghosts from the past!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we strongly and unequivocally condemn all forms of extremism, but we do not accept the left's vicious attempt to assimilate all right-wing voters to a lost group of 20th century nostalgics. but you're right about one thing. the danger of fascism is real, and it's in our midst. i find it fascist to try to prevent an internationally renowned conductor from taking the stage of a theatre, and then insult her from the audience just because she is not politically left-wing. i find fascist the unique thinking of those who, behind the shield of the politically correct, condemn and repress anyone who expresses dissent, labelling them from time to time with dangerous stereotypes such as "homophobic", "sexist", "mascillist", "nazi", and sometimes exposing them to the media's gossip, despising the potential consequences. finally, i find it fascist to force families who do not arrive at the end of the month to buy a new electric car, or to do very expensive renovations of buildings that they cannot afford. the danger of fascism exists, but you represent it in the most subtle way, with your coercive policies disguised as noble goals. once the color of fascism was black, today it is green for the left-wing eco-talibans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fascism was a criminal dictatorship that stripped away all freedom and led thousands of italians to die in concentration camps. mussolini's fascism was the primary cancer of which nazism was the metastasis. primo levi said it was a cancer that led to death in italy, germany and europe. the gestures repeated in rome reveal the ignorance of that tumor: people who look with nostalgia and admiration at the darkest period in history are horrified. italy can only be anti-fascist, it is for the constitution! with those arms outstretched, you are killing innocent children, women and men for the second time dead in auschwitz, marzabotto and everywhere else. fascism is shit! we should say it every day, explain it to kids from elementary school. italy and europe cannot tolerate this crap and it is very unfortunate that the second incumbent of the state has not the courage to declare himself an anti-fascist, not even from the track from which mussolini was driving trains to the concentration camps. italy and all of europe have a duty to eliminate this shit. enough with mussolini's busses and roman greetings, let's wipe them out! or, i remind you of the words of primo levi: our children will turn their faces at us, disease will strike us, the house of europe will be destroyed forever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fascism is an emergency. the black danger in europe! oh, my god, they're bringing back the black shirts! we are here in the european parliament in a comedy with this absolutely surreal controversy. and yes, because we are not discussing islamic terrorism, a certain left that is in the middle of hamas deniers, the problems of europe, but we are reducing ourselves to the debate on terrorism and fascism. so, i understand everything, but the terrorism alarm is a serious thing, the fascism alarm i don't think is a real priority. by the way, a debate asked for by the left that then doesn't even show up in the classroom. what is the thesis of the desperate left, without arguments? that fascism is already there and that the italian government is to blame. it's totally crazy. there is democracy in italy, the one that won the centre-right. give up. that demonstration to commemorate young people killed without ever finding the culprits has always been there, even and especially with left-wing governments. in 2018, there were more than 3 000 people; do you know who was in the government? there were gentiles! a lot more ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker)
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank mr moreno sánchez. the commission welcomes the very balanced european parliament implementation report on the eu-canada comprehensive economic trade agreement, which reflects the overall success this agreement has been and the benefits it delivers every day. on 21 september 2023, we celebrated the sixth anniversary of ceta’s provisional application – and there was a lot to celebrate! in six years of ceta’s provisional application, the increase in trade on both sides of the atlantic is remarkable. trade in goods increased by 66%. agricultural trade increased by 54%. trade and services reached a new record high in 2022, with a 62% increase and both sides benefit, and across eu member states – big and small ones. ceta has helped us to jointly resist pressure on supply chains in the challenging past four years through a pandemic, economic tensions and russia’s war against ukraine. during the pandemic, europe showed its solidarity by exporting vaccines to canada, and ceta has been crucial in our respective efforts to diversify away from russia since february 2022. imports from canada went up by 25% during 2022, notably for raw materials and energy products. for example, our imports of fertilisers went up by 225%. at the same time, canada has been a key market for our products affected by sanctions. eu exports to canada of its products increased by 45%. that is also closely interlinked with new initiatives we are engaging in with canada. already we have a strong strategic partnership on raw materials, and recently we also sealed the digital partnership and eu-canada green alliance. canada will also formally become associated to horizon europe in 2024. we should also flag that the european commission has now started the process of a detailed ex-post evaluation of ceta, including a lot of stakeholder consultations, to fully analyse what works and what does not, and draw lessons for the future. also, count on our close exchanges with the european parliament in this process. ceta is a real success story, but let’s not be complacent. it is working very well, but it is still only provisionally applied and ceta at this stage is not yet fully in force, but only provisionally applied. as of 1 january 2024, only 17 of the 27 member states have fully ratified it, and we want to see it ratified by all member states at national level to ensure full entry into force, as only this would allow to fully reap all the benefits of this agreement.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item on the agenda is the explanations of the vote.
a uachtaráin, the recovery of the ozone layer following the adoption of the montreal protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer in 1987 was a triumph for humans in the face of climate change. it gave us hope that with good governance it is not too late to turn around our current trajectory towards climate catastrophe. it is time for us to act in the name of the planet once again and not let the triumphs of the leaders who came before us be in vain. thus, it is essential that the eu avoids any backsliding and ensures that its ozone-depleting substances policy is aligned with the objectives in the european green deal – of which we have done so much in this mandate – the montreal protocol and the paris agreement. de bharr na gcúiseanna seo, vótáil mé i bhfabhar an bhille.
a uachtaráin, regulating fluorinated greenhouse gases is an essential step in ensuring that nothing slips through the cracks of the european green deal. these greenhouse gases are human-made chemicals that are often several thousand times stronger than carbon dioxide. the prohibition of greenhouse gases has a proven successful track record in reducing damage to our ozone layer, and this regulation is the way to ensure that that statement remains true. the revisions made to this directive will ensure better implementation of the regulation, to set a downward trend in both production and consumption of these gases by clarifying and strengthening existing standards. sin iad na fáthanna gur vótáil mé i bhfabhar an rúin seo.
a uachtaráin, in the wake of the economic setbacks brought on by the coronavirus pandemic and the need to stimulate more investment activity in the eu, i welcome the amendments to the markets in financial instruments regulation. an eu-wide consolidated tape for financial markets, instruments and targeted changes to market structure will strengthen transparency and competitiveness in the financial markets of the european union. investors will be better protected, as well as having easier access to-up-to date transaction information for the whole of the eu. the practice whereby brokers receive payments for forwarding client orders to certain trading platforms will eventually be completely phased out. lastly, i commend the inclusion of assessment by june 2026, of whether the consolidated tape framework indeed mitigates information asymmetries and whether the eu has become a more attractive marketplace. hopefully it will.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
the next meeting will begin tomorrow, wednesday 17 january 2024, at 9.00 a.m. the rules of procedure are published and available on the european parliament's website.
the minutes of this meeting will be submitted to parliament for approval the day after the vote.
matteo gazzini is a member of the epp group as of 17 january 2024.
in relation to the decisions by the econ and empl committees to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1), announced at the opening of the session on monday 15 january, i have received requests for a vote in parliament by the greens/efa and the left groups, reaching at least the medium threshold, on the decision of the econ committee to enter into negotiations on the following file:effective coordination of economic policies and multilateral budgetary surveillance. the vote will be held today.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the european council and commission statements on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 14-15 december 2023 and preparation of the special european council meeting of 1 february 2024 (2023/3006(rsp)), and on the council and commission statements on the situation in hungary and frozen eu funds (2024/2512(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me start with a word on the european council. at the last european council, the leaders agreed to review the multiannual financial framework earlier this year. and as you know, the president of the european council then convened an extraordinary european council meeting on this subject on 1 february. the aim of this extraordinary council is to reach agreement on the way forward. the leaders will be able to draw on the in-depth discussions they had in december and on the additional technical work that took place this month within the council. this will give the presidency a full mandate to engage in dialogue with the representatives of this assembly with whom the presidency has already had initial constructive discussions. we look forward to working with you to complete this crucial package quickly. i now turn to the second part of this joint discussion and will focus on the freezing of eu funds in hungary. i would like to begin by recalling that the rule of law is and remains at the heart of our political action. this is the first priority in the belgian presidency's programme and it is also the foundation of our union. we must now, more than ever, stand united to protect and strengthen the rule of law at a time when the values of the european union are under threat, in a geopolitical environment which seems to be weakening day by day. as regards the procedures under way, in particular to ensure the protection of the union's financial interests or article 7, i know that the previous presidencies have always kept parliament informed of the progress of the work on a regular basis, and we will of course do the same. as regards the procedure laid down in article 7 (1) for hungary, our presidency intends to continue working within the council while maintaining an open and constructive dialogue with hungary. we are planning a new hearing on hungary at the june general affairs council. as you know, there are several proceedings under way on the question of eu funds and its links to the rule of law. on 8 december 2023, the council adopted the implementing decision approving the revised recovery and resilience plan for hungary. the total amount of the plan is eur 10,4 million. the council implementing decision provides for a comprehensive set of essential institutional reforms which hungary must implement before payments under the facility can be authorised by the commission. these reforms address a number of issues related to the rule of law and also serve to protect the union's financial interests. to date, only the amount of prefinancing has been received by hungary. we also note that hungary has taken legislative measures to address some of the reforms requested, which is something to be encouraged. on 15 december 2022, the council adopted for the first time an implementing decision on measures to protect the union budget against violations of the rule of law in hungary. you will understand that i will not go further on these two measures, since they have already been presented in abundance before. on 13 december the commission presented an updated assessment of the situation in hungary and did not propose any amendment to the existing measures, which continue to apply in hungary today. the council remains determined to act swiftly once the commission has put forward a proposal on measures currently applicable to hungary and, as regards the horizontal favourable conditions, the enabling conditions, it is for the commission to assess and monitor compliance with these conditions before any funding is made available to hungary and then disbursed. the council does not intervene in this process. i would like to conclude by saying that we welcome the ongoing dialogue between the commission and hungary. we hope that these exchanges will soon bear fruit and that, of course, they will be accompanied by the necessary reforms. the council will always work to protect the budget of the european union and the financial interests of the european union. we are also fully aware of the role played by the commission, which i have just mentioned and which we fully support. thank you for your attention.
president of the commission. – madam president, dear roberta, madam minister, honourable members, a global year of election has just begun. it is the hour of democracy, also here in europe, but the world around us keeps spinning. we have two bloody wars continuing to rage just outside our borders. the human suffering is immense and the shock waves are felt well beyond ukraine and gaza. after the energy and food crisis set off by russia, global trade is now being disrupted by houthi terror in the red sea. our world is in an era of confrontation and conflict, of fragmentation and fear. and this moment calls for focus and responsibility inside our union. only together can we address the grave challenges we face. and that is the greatest lesson we have learned over those four years: when we stand united, europe stands strong. we have seen it again at the end of last year. after almost 10 years of divisive debates, we have an agreement on the new pact on migration and asylum, and i want to thank all of you in this parliament who have never stopped seeking common ground. and, of course, i count on you and your final green light before the end of this mandate. (applause)and the pact is not the only critical step that our union has taken in recent weeks. the hearts of millions of ukrainians were filled with joy and hope when we announced the opening of accession negotiations. the people of ukraine have fought hard to achieve this goal, not only on the battlefield, but also through the work of their democratic institutions. it is just in a matter of a few months that they have passed new laws to expand national minority rights, to improve the judicial system, to ensure checks and balances on power. and last week, the rada approved in first reading the lobbying bill that will curb the power of oligarchs. these are significant achievements. ukraine’s democratic institutions are delivering – not only on our recommendation but on the aspirations of their people. a whole nation is showing us just how much europe means to them, and i am proud that our union has answered ukraine’s call. now we must follow up on the political situation and the decision that we took at the european council. in preparation for the accession talks, we are starting the screening process and putting together now the negotiation framework. and in the meantime, we will also start working on our reforms – our own reforms – to prepare for a union of 30+ member states. at the last european council, we also agreed to launch accession negotiations with moldova and with bosnia and herzegovina when the necessary criteria are met. we have granted candidate status to georgia and we have confirmed our collective commitment to the future, where all six western balkan partners are part of our union. how will a union of 30+ countries work in practice? only we inside the european union can answer this question. this house has already put forward bold ideas for reform of our treaties. next month, the commission will set out our ideas in a communication to the european parliament and the council ahead of the leaders’ discussion organised by the belgian presidency. honourable members, the last european council has shown the political will to stand with ukraine for as long as it takes, but we must back this decision with adequate funding. we have proposed to guarantee stable and substantial financing to ukraine over the next four years, to support the daily functioning of the state, to stabilise the economy, to bring it closer to our union. all this requires an updated eu budget and, as you all know, the mid-term review is not only about ukraine, it is about competitiveness, it is about migration, it is about our support for the western balkans, it is about solidarity when natural disasters hit, like flooding or wildfires. these are priorities that we collectively share. we need this mid-term review and i am confident that we will find a solution by 2027 that this is possible. the final topic i would like to address is hungary and its access to eu funds. this is also about the fundamental values that bring us together. when we took office, we promised to safeguard the rule of law in our union while being fair to all member states. i have made this a priority for my commission. this is why this commission has created the annual rule of law report. and we have used all the instruments available to us to protect both the values and the eu’s financial institutions. our goal has always been to push for reforms in the member states, that they can improve the life of every european. last may, hungary passed a new law on justice reform that addresses a number of our recommendations from the 2022 report. it is a law that strengthens judicial independence and limits the possibility of political interference in the judiciary. this was required for hungary to meet the conditions for cohesion funds. this is what we requested and this is what hungary delivered. commissioners briefed parliament beforehand and, of course, they stand ready to provide further information any time. at the same time, around eur 20 billion remain frozen. they are suspended for reasons that include concerns on lgbtqi rights, academic freedom and asylum rights. some are blocked under the conditionality mechanism, and they will remain blocked until hungary fulfils all the necessary conditions. in the meantime, hungary has also received pre-financing under repower, like any other member state. this pre-financing is not subject to any condition. these are the rules. we have all agreed to them and we will follow them. this is what makes the rule of law stand out from arbitrary power. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commission presidency, i will start with a quote from a former belgian prime minister and founding father of the epp. wilfried martens once said: ‘there will be only an ambitious europe or no europe at all’. and at the beginning of this electoral year, we proved this. ursula von der leyen has demonstrated together with us in the last years that we are ambitious on climate policy, the brexit agreement, covid vaccines, rrf, ukraine support and the migration policy. the epp is not building castles in the air like some of the left are doing, and we are not having a wrecking ball in our hand like the radical right is doing. the epp’s europe is an ambitious europe and we deliver. i want to thank for this. the european council in december showed leadership: yes to ukraine, yes to ursula von der leyen’s proposal on enlargement to start the negotiations, especially with ukraine. this was an historic decision and gives certainty to the ukrainian people. yes, you can be part of our family. yes, it’s worth to fight against putin. yes, ukraine must win the war. but the european council also failed when it was about the money – to create certainty on our long-term financing of the european union. and yes, there is a question now with viktor orbán and hungary on the table. for us, as the european parliament, it was a huge success in this mandate to establish a binding rule of law mechanism. it was our common effort, our common success. for us, as the epp, it was always important to have a fact-based assessment about rule of law in individual cases. and for us now, the important thing is that we need further clarification. as the epp, we initiated a letter to ask in the budg committee and also in the cont committee about the reasoning behind the decision of the commission. and we are welcoming commissioners schmit, reynders and commissioner hahn to inform us about this. that’s the next step in front of us. hungary has for a long time here in this parliament been seen as a difficult case. we have initiated an article 7 case against hungary. and if i may say so, it’s great to hear the council telling us that the commission decision must be assessed. but the most important thing – what i would love to see from the council side – is to answer our request on article 7, because that is on the table and until now the leaders had no courage, and obviously no time even, to discuss the hungarian case on substance on the council side. so please answer the demand from parliament. the question now on the table for ukraine is how to pay teachers, how to pay nurses, doctors and all of the soldiers? how to convince our american friends and the imf to continue supporting ukraine? having this in mind, the end of january council must deliver. we must be prepared for all options at the end of this month and we, as the epp, also insist on the other elements on the mff: don’t forget about migration, for example. at the beginning of 2024, i want also to speak about the broader perspective. an ambitious approach is needed – i said it. what do we have to do? first of all, we have to come back to a very old idea in europe. belgium had already ratified the european defence union before it was stopped by the french national assembly in 1953, nine years after the end of the second world war. another former belgian prime minister and former nato secretary general, paul-henri spaak, said rightly afterwards: ‘there are only two types of states in europe: small states and states that have not yet realised that they are small’. europe must stand united against putin. now it’s the right moment to build up a european defence pillar. we cannot have 180 different weapon systems while the us only has 30. imagine how much we could increase our defence capabilities only with the introduction of a single market for defence systems. let’s build up our own defence capabilities in the next years, for example, with a european missile defence shield, a cyber-brigade or even a nuclear shield. with ambitious investments in european defence, we can keep the biggest promise of europe, and that is a promise of peace. alongside defence, migration is a second important pillar for our family. we have to finally complete now this legislation. le pen, afd and orbán are trying to torpedo the european solution because they want to use the substance of this problem for their egoistic political benefit. they don’t want to solve the problem. they are the problem. and that’s why we must finalise this legislation. and my appeal today goes especially to the greens. i understand that they are not yet decided whether they can support the final outcome of this migration deal. imagine for a second the migration act failing in this house. imagine for a second. that would mean that we help le pen, afd and fpö, that we would fuel extremists all over europe. and that’s why it’s now the moment to take over responsibility and finalise this migration deal. and the last point i want to mention is economic issues for us as the epp. this will be the driving issue for this election campaign – to have jobs, to have good incomes, to have prosperity, to have a strong economy. germany is already in recession and we need not another european traffic light coalition. what we need is economic strength for europe and that is what the epp will be asking for.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, i ask of ms von der leyen, can i ask you a very simple question? that is, are you going to repeat the practice that happened during the previous european council in december? you remember that? the blackmail by viktor orbán to use the veto. and then just before that european council, the freezing of i think it was 11 billion, in exchange for the fact that he left the room. that was the deal: ‘11 billion and you leave the room’. so my question to you is, are you going to do that again? because it could happen on 1 february. that is, that he again uses his veto, now for another thing, not for the accession negotiations, but for liberating the 50 billion of funds that are desperately needed for ukraine. and i have to tell you very openly, before you answer, that if your answer is a yes, then you will run, i think, into big troubles here in this parliament, not only with me, not only with my group, but i think with the vast majority of this parliament. i have to tell you, giving in to the blackmail of orbán like it happened in december has to stop now. and also the compromises that have been put on the table to make a yearly portion of that money or to give a mid-term review on that money, or not a compromise, because it’s simply opening the door for more blackmailing, by orbán in the coming years. so, the appeal that i want to launch to you, hopefully, i think, in the name of the vast majority of this parliament is stay inside the treaties, and pick up your role that you have as the guardian of the treaties, because there are sufficient solutions to give this money to ukraine inside the provisions of the treaty of today. you don’t need to, every time, give in to the blackmail of orbán. you could propose a face-saving emergency clause or break, like we call, it at 27. that could be a solution. or you could go into an enhanced cooperation, with 26, under the control of the european parliament, because enhanced cooperation is controlled by the european parliament. or ultimately, you can indeed propose to the council to take away the voting rights based on article 7(2) of the treaty, so that we can decide with unanimity on 26. that’s another proposal. anyway, i know i have a very bad reputation in this house, and maybe also with you, i don’t know. and i have also, from time to time, a bad character. i’m sometimes even replaced in my positions. but can i ask you one thing – to be a little bit of all that concerning orbán? and finally, the battle on hungary is not a battle on hungary; it’s a battle on the liberal democracy in europe. and that battle, we need to win it and not to give in on it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, dear colleagues, dear representatives of the council and the commission. sometimes in politics, it is worthwhile to take a step back and to look at the bigger picture, and sometimes i ask myself how the european union looks to others from the outside. we stood together in difficult times during the covid-19 pandemic. when russia brutally invaded ukraine, we stood at the side of ukraine and we stood united. we should actually right now be considered a strong and meaningful actor in the world, but unfortunately we are not. we are considered too disunited and, by many, also too weak. that is mostly due to one person, one man who we let do whatever he pleases to get what he wants, who we let blackmail and ridicule the rest of the european union – viktor orbán. he attacks minorities, he dismantles press freedom, he dismantles the independence of the judiciary, he weakens europe, and he disables europe’s ability to act now vis-à-vis ukraine. but i can tell you, china is closely watching, obviously, the us and the rest of the world. all for his friend vladimir putin and his own pockets. what do the other member states do? they sit by and let it happen. big names, important people, presidents, chancellors, prime ministers, they are all too hesitant to do something about it, including the council president, who has not delivered on something that this parliament has been asking for for many years now, and that is to move ahead with an article 7 procedure. what else will you let happen – hungary becoming even more of an autocracy? europe becoming weaker and weaker for its own citizens because we are not delivering on the tasks that the citizens demand for the support of ukraine? seriously, colleagues, time is up. ukrainians are losing their lives. ukrainians are fighting for our freedom too, and we have putin’s best servant sitting at the table in the european council, blocking our support and our credibility at this crucial stage. this is a joke, and this is a very bad joke, especially when the member states actually have the tools to stop this, and not with difficult legal constructions for the financial help of ukraine – i’m not against it if it is the only way – or to have a proposal for an even dirtier compromise with orbán. no, the way would be very simply by moving ahead with the article 7 procedure, not only to defend the rule of law and democracy in europe, but to make europe strong in this crucial battle between democracy and autocracy. it is time to do something and the council has to deliver.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the budget for the last european council. we are satisfied with the work that has been done on enlargement to the western balkans and the opening of negotiations for the entry of ukraine, georgia and moldova. the proposal to use the frozen funds from russia to finance the reconstruction of ukraine is also right. but there are still some questions on several issues and the revision of the financial framework 2021-2027 is still pending, on which the necessary unanimity has not yet been reached. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. there is a cultural identity, in fact, which comes even before political identity and there is the need to face together the difficult geopolitical challenges of these years. that is why we must not make the tragic mistake of removing nations that are already part of the european union, as has happened with britain and as may happen again. to be even clearer, i find it myopic that the constant attack on hungary is still being carried out here today. a political bombardment that saves nothing and no one, not even hungarian students who, had an amendment not been passed yesterday, would have been excluded from the erasmus programme. this is despite the progress made by the maghorian institutions in their relations with the commission, for example on justice reform. i believe that the institutions of budapest should be asked to show greater solidarity and sharing, but i believe that in return they should be given greater willingness to listen to their reasons and a fairer peace of mind. the european union must be cohesive within it and must regain that centrality in the international chessboard that it has lost or perhaps never really had. many other issues have been added to the old issues of birth defects, loss of competitiveness, management of migratory flows: the commission has also been consulted on the following issues: president. - we are already campaigning and it would be hypocritical to deny this, but europe is either something bigger than our little political scandals or nothing.
on behalf of the id group. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to speak today about the topics discussed at the last european council, but as mr procaccini said, we are entering an election year and what i heard from my colleagues today compels me and gives me the opportunity to give a broader political reasoning on what this year will be, what the european elections of 2024 represent and will represent. i don't think the premises are good. i would like to say that the commissioner has not been able to give us a clear answer to the question of the question of the european parliament. i have heard of the danger of populism, every plenary session we have absurd debates about the danger of the parties i represent, but we work hard and especially those who have ruled these institutions for the last 30 years struggle to understand that the success of the parties i represent is the result of your mistakes. it's the result of the policies you've been pursuing for the last 30 years. it is also the result of what is then revealed at council meetings, namely a divided europe which, instead of focusing on a shared method, is a strength of positions which then create divisions. we have done nothing extraordinary, we have only filled a political space that you have left empty, which you have decided not to fill. the answers to the citizens we are giving and you with your policies have not given. so the problem is not to blame those who have not governed for being inefficient or dangerous, the problem you should be talking about today is the failure of your policies, because if we are voted, we who have never governed in europe, it is obviously because the citizens are not happy and feel protected by those who have governed in europe today. 2024 is going to be very important. i, as a representative of this political group, am happy today and look forward to the future with optimism because we have already won. what we are discussing in this house is the result of our political action leading the majority in europe to discuss certain topics, to talk about immigration, to talk about the economy, to approve a reform of the stability and growth pact which ultimately, although not the best possible, changes the perspective. so a wish to all for a good election campaign and a suggestion: i would like to ask you to focus on a little self-criticism rather than criticising those who do not want to destroy europe but want to free it from years of misrule.
madam president, minister, president von der leyen, there can be – and there are – different opinions on how to best help ukraine. we continue to believe that our number one priority should continue to be to find a ceasefire and a peace deal as soon as possible. we also think that member states should create a fund outside of the eu budget to help ukraine, and that new funds should not be based on a new loan. countries can contribute and hungary stands ready to contribute to such a fund. now, one more thought on the eu budget. every euro cent should be paid to hungary without any further delay. ideological blackmail is not acceptable. and by the way, if you’re looking for a real rule of law crisis, you should turn your eyes to see what’s happening in poland these days. lastly, the proposition to suspend hungary’s voting rights just because we happen to disagree on some political issues is an absolute new low, even for this parliament. it is as shameful as it is absurd. you disagree with someone, and then you want to take away their right to speak and vote? that is a dictatorship. you’re digging the grave of the european union this way. wake up and turn back from this crazy path.
madam president, i say to mr hidvéghi, your narrative on an immediate ceasefire in ukraine we have heard from the russian president, vladimir putin. the choice is not between war and peace in ukraine. the choice is between victory and surrender, and we will not surrender and we will support ukraine for as much as is needed. this has always been the will of the european parliament and of the european union. now, with regard to the situation where we are, we have managed together, the european parliament, council and commission, to achieve a lot at the end of last year, including the december european council. the choice to start accession negotiations with ukraine and moldova is justified. it’s right for those countries, but it’s right for us as well, because those accession negotiations are the best tool that we have to modernise, to reform two neighbouring countries of the european union. there is, however, one leftover from the last european council, and that is the revision of the multiannual financial framework and granting immediate support of eur 50 billion to ukraine. this is urgent and it is important. and this is why, while the message to the people of europe is ‘europe was delivering in the last months of the last year’, now the message to the european council and to the council of the european union is ‘agree on the revision and agree on the 50 billion for ukraine on 1 february’. later will be too late: 1 february is needed in order for us here in the parliament to be able to fulfil our role, to examine this proposal, to add the opinion of parliament and to give a clear, transparent vote with a good majority before the european elections. the message to the people of hungary is that of course we want the people of hungary to benefit from europe, from european funds, from the recovery and resilience facility as the people of any other european country do. unfortunately, the actions of the hungarian government have prevented europe’s will to support the people of hungary. and this is why the message to the people of hungary, and to anyone who might be attracted by the model of viktor orbán, by the confrontation with the european union, is the following: unfortunately, hungary has been losing in the last years and months. viktor orbán has been losing. he still has more than eur 20 billion of eu funds blocked at european level. the president of the commission has confirmed this. the solution in europe is dialogue, is working together, is not a confrontation with brussels. this is what we will deliver.
mr president, council, the revision of the eu budget that the european council is negotiating is absolutely good news. europe is finally increasing the budget allocation to address energy costs, the war in ukraine and the environmental disasters. but the bad news is that, as far as we know, today’s negotiations on the budget are still blocked and the culprit is the usual suspect, viktor orbán, and, it is worth repeating, the friend of the far right, the friend of vladimir putin, the despotic leader who holds europe hostage at every historic juncture. so he is now obsessed with funds for post-war reconstruction in ukraine. but with his veto, he is also blocking european investments in strategic sectors, blocking resources allocated to manage migration and, above all, blocking the increase of the european solidarity fund, for instance, which would have been crucial for the floods hitting italy, emilia-romagna. today, giorgia meloni will be in forlì, i think, with ursula von der leyen. i hope that she is going to italy and i hope that giorgia meloni strongly emphasises that her friend orbán is withholding additional funds for the citizens of emilia-romagna. so, this chamber is really wondering why, for years, we allow orbán to put the brakes on a strong and solidary europe. europe is not an atm. one cannot request european funds and then ignore the values of democracy, pluralism and the rule of law. please stop this veto.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the social market economy is a founding pillar of the european union and is based on the principle that there can be no real economic development without social progress. i'm a little surprised, however, by the debate we're having today, because we've actually talked about quality jobs in the last five years, first because of the pandemic and then for the whole topic of changing production models of the ecological transition and the digital transition. but today the right-wing forces want to tell us what their vision is, what "quality posts" mean on our continent, where they have actually abandoned the social market model and are more than just feeding the waste culture, where poverty is normal and where it is legitimate to get rich at the expense of the weakest. i see this attitude again in my country, italy, where the debate on the minimum wage directive and the principle that hunger wages are exploited have been overturned by the meloni government on a subject that is not a priority for our country and for our workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to work.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, you are destroying agriculture and putting farmers and producers on their knees. the huge protests in germany are the last sign of a very negative path for agriculture. because of what? to your crazy environmental choices. the tractor revolt stems from a vision of agriculture as an absolute evil and an environmentally hostile sector. you want to limit farming, you want to remove subsidies and aid to farms, you want to impose new restrictions and costs on the sector, you want to criminalize farmers, you even propose slaughtering cows to protect the climate. at a time when we should be focusing on agriculture to secure food independence, you are waging war on the farmers, thus giving way to products coming from non-european countries, beef and synthetic meat. stop it!
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, you want the big brother, you want to set up a series of opinion crimes to control ideas and restrict freedom of expression, you want to appropriate the powers of the member states to counter new norms that displease you. clearly, we are in favour of fighting all forms of discrimination and hate crime, and we believe it is right to fight bullying in schools and cyberbullying, which are particularly serious phenomena that put children at risk. we would not, however, like to see, for example, the internet and social networks removed from the internet, under the pretext of preventing crime, news and opinions that are displeasing to a certain political party. on the other hand, you have already made clear with the digital services act that if you are a rebellious voice and not aligned with the unique leftist thought, you can and must be silent and that you want to be promoters of a model where you delete the content of citizens' thoughts under the pretext of fighting fake news. i wonder: who will judge what speech can be equated with hate? what will be the topics on which we can no longer express our voice outside the choir? i think that we are afraid of a new bubble, with brussels ready to import the chinese model into europe.
the proposal to extend the list of crossborder offences recognised by the eu to include hate speech is totally untenable, as it is incompatible with the principles of criminal law, the determination of punishable conduct, proportionality and effectiveness. such a criminal rule should in fact describe precisely which expressive modalities constitute incitement to hatred: i would like to ask the commissioner if he can make a statement on the matter, and if he can, i would ask him if he can, if he can, make a statement on the matter. freedom of expression is a fundamental eu right and its exercise cannot be restricted by general criminal rules that amputate it because it could lead to negative feelings. moreover, such a forecast would lead to an explosion of criminal proceedings that would clog prosecutors' offices, to the detriment of the effectiveness of the overall criminal action and the fight against crime. other tools more appropriate and respectful of democracy must be adopted to counter hate speech in the awareness, however, that erasing negative feelings from society remains impossible as long as the human species exists.
the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the subject of the european parliament's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. free thinkers, philosophers, scientists have built the pillars of european freedom and our well-being and a handful of left bureaucrats, instead, want to lead us back to the darkest obscurantism. i agree that freedom of thought should be limited, okay? but do you know who in italy decriminalized the crime of blasphemy? right left a few years ago! in italy, we are free to offend anyone. so the left is the moral of the story, from what pulpit! i agree that hatred, social envy, political resentment are absolutely negative feelings; last week, a woman committed suicide following a hate campaign launched by left-wing influencers. so, be careful. on the left, first you make laws to harm your political opponents, and then these usual laws come back against you.
on behalf of the id group. i have read this report on fundamental rights of the european union carefully and i must say that it appears to have come from a meeting of a social centre or a meeting of the far left. the document says that ngos are criminalized; you speak of disproportionate violence against migrants; you say that there is systematic racism in europe; that in our continent islamophobia and anti-gypsyism are persistent forms of hatred and discrimination. then you say that right-wing extremism and not left-wing extremism, never to mention it! represents a particular threat to society. that roma are discriminated against and that most of them are deprived of basic human rights in all areas of life. you say that the trend of increasing incitement to hate and violence against lgbtq+ people continues throughout europe. and again, that europe is concerned about police violence: the one the police do with violence, not the one they suffer. the police are described as brutal, particularly against the roma population. obviously no mention of islamic terrorism. you used to talk about restrictions on women's rights, but you never said anything about islamic women being deprived of their freedom and forced to wear a veil. do not say anything about the threats of the far left, which stands in solidarity with hamas, for example. nothing about the violence against law enforcement. no convictions for human traffickers and illegal immigration damage. the europe you paint in this document is an insult to european citizens. enough with the ideology, enough with these pathetic communist-flavored sermons!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission, and we are now in favour of the amendments. in italy, a vague law is being passed that will prevent journalists from publishing the warrant for their detention, in whole or in part, until the preliminary hearing is over. these are public acts, but italian journalists will no longer be able to cite them. citizens have the right to be informed from a variety of sources to form their opinion, as specified in this report and the commission's september 2021 recommendation. instead, italians risk remaining in the dark about important investigations, perhaps those of greater public interest involving politicians and white collar people. this form of censorship, however, does not guarantee even the investigators themselves. the law will allow lawyers and opinionists to interpret facts on social media and on television, without the possibility of being denied by official court documents. the risk is to accentuate the media's craze. we protect the rule of law, we protect free journalism!
we are now putting hundreds of thousands of migrants in europe, leaving them to the hands of organized crime which exploits them for black work and then we complain that human rights are often not respected at work. you say that sometimes the police have been too harsh on protesters, but you may forget how protesters have been treated against draconian green pass and vaccine laws. you talk about fundamental rights, which clearly include political rights, and you do not hesitate to ban some political parties that do not feel like the majority on the left. you talk about women's rights in europe, but you close your eyes to the many muslim women who are being treated like animals by their husbands in europe. you talk about equal rights for all, but you are always ready to give cultural attenuators to foreigners. i agree. in europe, there is still much to be done on the rights and hypocrisy front.
i am from the geothermal region of tuscany, where the first geothermal power station in larderello, larderello 1, has been built and where energy has been produced for over 100 years. i have heard the green and left groups speak in favour of geothermal energy, but i agree that the local representatives of the no geothermal committees are referring to the greens and the 5 stars. they say that geothermal energy is not actually renewable, so maybe a phone call to the no committees in the territory, say what you think. it is good that europe is also taking action today and is starting to move towards geothermal activity and that it is expected to spread more widely in europe. a spread, however, which it is worth noting, can only be achieved if we can temper the initial investment risk that operators must assume by promoting funds to support the high initial fixed costs of mapping and exploration to be borne.
the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of energy in the production of energy. in 2021, even before the energy crisis, more than 20 million women than men lived below the poverty line across the eu. this is a frightening fact, because in this sense europe is 60 years behind in achieving gender equality. this is also the consequence of budget cuts and austerity policies which, at local level, are mainly for women, such as reducing road lighting and public transport. but the wage gap that still persists in modern society undoubtedly exacerbates the precarious conditions of women in dealing with the expensive bills and therefore a minimum wage and an adequate minimum income must be guaranteed to end wage disparity and to effectively promote gender equality, income security and economic independence for women.
the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the protection of workers' rights. the report mentions aspects which are certainly not to be underestimated and there are also positive aspects, such as supporting women in the stem field of work, to name a few, but we must bear in mind that our credibility does not depend only on these great statements of principle that we make in these classrooms. it depends and will continue to depend on the ability to translate our stated objectives into concrete action. we are now facing more women in poverty, and this is a statistic, but we must be very careful because europe is becoming poorer and we must act unitedly and in a single direction.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2013 was a year of rapid reform of the common fisheries policy. in the last ten years we have gone from a total lack of fisheries management objectives to political, if not electoral, objectives which in some cases are impossible or extremely difficult to achieve. the result is the mistrust of fishermen towards the policy and the european union, as the measures taken are inadequate and lack a solid scientific basis, and the mistrust of society, which does not see the desired improvements to the environment and ends up considering fishermen as enemies of the law of the sea, instead of recognizing their role in ensuring food security and the development of coastal communities. the future common fisheries policy will require the restoration of the balance between the three pillars of sustainability and the restoration of their balance. we are giving fisheries, aquaculture and the entire fishery product value chain their place and putting them at the top of the political agenda of the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all let me thank the rapporteur, mr herbst, the shadow rapporteurs and, of course, the european parliament, for this report and for their contributions to the discussions on the marine action plan. it is important that these discussions are taking place publicly as they touch upon fundamental questions on how we see the future of our fisheries sector and of the natural resources on which this sector fully depends. thanks to our common fisheries policy, we have already seen good results regarding the sustainable exploitation of commercial fisheries species. fishing at a sustainable level clearly pays off economically, and this is a collective achievement. first of all, due to the hard efforts of our fisheries across europe – of which, of course, we can all be proud and which should encourage us to continue our efforts so that we can achieve such positive developments in all situations. but fishing at sustainable levels will not be enough to keep fisheries economically viable. we must go beyond, and also look at how we can better preserve the ecosystems that allow fish stocks to thrive. of course – let me be very clear about this – the degradation of the marine ecosystem is not provoked by fishing alone. this is why we are always looking at the ocean in a coherent and comprehensive manner, asking all sectors, all stakeholders, to step up and do their part. we know that our fishers cherish the sea. they are the guardians of the sea and we respect the role. the marine action plan is a part of the fisheries and ocean package, which, as you know, looks at all challenges affecting europe’s fisheries today. the state of the marine ecosystem depends on the need to ensure a level playing field within and outside the european union, the dependency on fossil fuels and generational renewal. it is all about increasing resilience, and restoring biodiversity is one of the ways to make the fisheries sector more resilient, so that our fishermen and women can continue providing high-quality seafood. this requires actions not only at eu level but also globally to enhance environmental standards at international level. in the marine action plan, the commission focuses on marine protected areas. when successfully implemented, marine protected areas offer large socio-economic benefits, especially for coastal communities and sectors like fisheries and tourism. your report calls for scientific studies regarding the establishment of marine protected areas. when preparing this action plan, the commission based itself on scientific data, which is why we proposed a targeted regional approach adapted to the specific needs, realities and challenges in each region. we do not want a one-size-fits-all approach. we want regionalisation to work, and it starts to work – not as effectively as we, of course, have hoped for, but we have continued to firmly believe that this is the right way to go. that’s why our marine action plan calls on member states to step up their efforts. let me come back to the importance of science. scientific studies show that increasing mesh sizes and minimum landing sizes enable the youngest fish to remain in the water, therefore increasing the chances for fish populations to reproduce. the action plan includes specific measures in that regard. we want to encourage and finance more work and studies to design the most suitable management options, which can lead to healthier fish populations that will bring higher yields per fishing trip and allow reducing fuel consumption. again, the action plans include specific measures in that regard. concerning eel protection, we are on the same line and continue to count on your support. the eel regulation needs to be fully implemented to ensure an effective protection of this iconic species. finally, let me also say a few words on bottom trawling, which we have discussed extensively over the last year and which is only one area we address in our action plan. we do not propose a blanket ban on bottom fishing or any other technique, but we remain convinced that we need to move to less-damaging fishing techniques where possible and encourage massive innovation in this regard, funded for our fishers. some of those techniques, they are already available and they are ready to be deployed more widely. honourable members, i would like to thank you once again for the open and frank discussions we have had over the last year. a lot of follow-ups remain to be done, but i am convinced that with a constructive approach and close cooperation among all institutions and stakeholders, we will manage to make progress. the biggest winners of that are going to be our fishers and coastal communities across europe. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, we have spoken a lot today, but it is clear that the sector is facing a very complicated situation and i am concerned that coastal communities perceive the european union as a body that dictates increasingly strict rules without taking into account the economic and social dimensions of fishing. fishermen complain that the co-educators are disconnected from reality. however, the fisheries and aquaculture sectors are strategic sectors in the green pact and provide healthy food, especially in times of crisis. the people's party is at the forefront of ensuring that food security, economic growth and social welfare are fundamental considerations that are better integrated into the decision-making process. and i think it is unfair to exaggerate the importance of fishing as a source, if not of all, of many of the ills and destruction of marine ecosystems, as can be implied in the action plan. i am glad that the commissioner has clearly pointed out the opposite today. and speaking of reality, the progressive elimination of bottom trawling in one third of the oceans by 2030 is, of course, an absolutely unfair situation. i believe that fish can continue to be extracted sustainably, already increasing the high imports. i think that simply banning custom-made standards based on the best available scientific advice is not good legislation. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur, i believe that the report is appropriate as it is and cannot be altered by amendments which ignore the needs of fishermen.
i am speaking on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of our seas and the environment is something that is of particular concern to me. it is not just a task, it is a mission that involves all of us and that we must ensure for future generations. but in doing so, we cannot forget the fishermen, the true guardians of the sea, the first to defend the biodiversity on which they and our livelihood are based. as a fisherman, i know how hard sea life is and how much strength and tenacity it takes to do a job that is becoming less and less desirable. we have worked together with this resolution to ensure that fisheries are increasingly sustainable in the near future, without forgetting the side challenges to good fisheries policy management. i am referring to climate change and the ongoing ecological disasters, not least the one in galicia. the images of microplastics infesting seas and beaches shook me deeply. these are the alarm bells we can no longer ignore. we call on the commission to take the path of balance, as outlined in the common fisheries policy. the environmental components must be in line with the social and economic components. more responsible fisheries management is essential for the future of our seas. we also recognize that each place has its own specificity and uniqueness. we need to work together, listen to everyone, rely on the best scientific advice and consider any possible impact. as we continue on the path of a just transition, mr president, we must also work internationally to combat illegal and unfair fishing by third countries, especially in the mediterranean. cooperation in setting stricter global standards is a key step to protecting our seas and fishermen, otherwise our continued efforts would be in vain. we are therefore moving forward on the path of a just transition that leaves no one behind.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment. the understandable protests of european shipowners and the siren sounds of the more than 7 000 vessels threatening to cease operations do not seem to have reached your ears, dear commissioner. what else do fishermen need to do to be heard? why do you continue to make proposals that directly affect a sector which contributes 25% of the total landings of fish products and 38% of the revenue in the european union? do you want to flood our markets with products imported from third countries? because this will be the only way to meet the growing demand and destroy the european crust. yet european fishermen already follow some of the strictest rules in the world, which give them the role of guarantors of best fishing practices. the action plan should therefore protect the environment and biodiversity by taking a cross-cutting and holistic approach and not focusing solely on fishing activities, especially considering that marine protected areas have been established to protect natural resources while seabed should be managed on a case-by-case basis on a local basis. we need clarity, especially on the binding aspects of the plan, and a little more realism in addressing the economic and environmental problems of this european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for being here. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment. the fisheries sector has adapted, respected and cooperated because fish stocks are also important to them. i therefore believe that the european commission should change its approach because the fisherman must be an ally in the management of stocks, which are now flourishing and important even with certain restrictions that were made in the past. but we must ensure that the seafaring industry does not empty itself, that this profession can continue to be important to the tradition of our continent, also because we are a market open to products which are not taken out in accordance with our criteria and standards. this is absurd and does not even help consumers in making informed and quality choices. in my region on sardine novella the so-called white a study was done, with the collaboration of the university collaborated. the commission has this document: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission.
we are talking about responsibility, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr michel, commissioner. you are taking responsibility for allocating another 50 billion euros of european taxpayers' money to the bottomless pit of war spending in ukraine, an expenditure which has so far produced no backwardness of the russian army, which has advanced, and you do not even condemn or mention the fact that the ukrainian army is using western weapons to attack russian territory, not only to defend itself, but also to attack, as it did in lugansk, civilian cities and buildings, killing 28 civilians, including a child and several elderly people in a bakery. i believe that at least these war crimes because that is what they are should be condemned. and we should also understand whether and when these loans we are giving to the ukrainian government will ever be repaid, because they are an expenditure that affects the european budget and the ability of the member states to provide assistance to their citizens in serious difficulties.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am grateful for the intense efforts by the european parliament to make progress on the legislative proposal on plants obtained by new genomic techniques. in particular, i thank the rapporteur, jessica polfjärd, for her leadership on this important file. we find ourselves at a critical point in deciding how innovations in plant breeding can make our agri-food system more sustainable, environmentally friendly and globally competitive, and, by extension, how they can address the pressing needs of society and deliver food safety and security. at a time when farmers ask for our support, it is crucial to give them new tools. we need tools that respond to the pressing challenges of breeders and farmers in food production. farmers are making their voices heard. they want their activities to remain economically viable and globally competitive. we have a responsibility to engage with our farmers, address their concerns and find appropriate solutions. we must also engage genuinely with citizens about how new technologies can help make agriculture more environmentally, socially and economically sustainable. we have listened to the different voices and put forward a balanced set of new rules that are proportionate, contribute to food security and guarantee food safety. i am glad to see that the report proposed by the rapporteur and supported by the envi committee, maintains the overall architecture of our proposal and the need for differentiated requirements based on two categories of plants obtained by new genomic techniques. i remind you that this differentiation is supported by science and allows for a regulatory framework that ensures safety without unnecessary burden. this is key to delivering legislation that enables innovation while not compromising on safety. legislation to support farmers and their crucial work. many countries around the world have taken or are taking measures to update their regulatory systems to exploit the potential of new genomic techniques. they are creating regulatory systems adapted to the 21st century. the eu should not miss the opportunity now to do the same. at this stage, the commission reserves its position on the proposed amendments. we will consider them once parliament and council have established their positions and we enter into trilogue discussions. even so, i shall highlight a couple of issues. on the patentability of plants obtained by new genomic techniques, we have already expressed our commitment to undertake a thorough assessment and, if necessary, take action. i reiterate that commitment today. i understand the legitimate concerns in this area. however, as always, any substantial changes need to be carefully assessed and based on real evidence. i stress how important it is for the commission in the subsequent discussions to maintain the logic of the proposal as informed by the scientific consensus, namely, that certain plants obtained by new genomic techniques are as safe as conventional plants. they should, in our view, be subject to the same rules as conventional plants, including on risk assessment, traceability, labelling and sustainability. i welcome the progress so far. it paves the way for our joint work in this area. as always, you can count on the commission’s full support and commitment in the future negotiations.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. the new breeding methods are a huge opportunity for our farmers. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the basis of the information provided by the commission. we are therefore very grateful that ursula von der leyen announced this morning that she would withdraw her proposal to sur. and i'm also very convinced of the new breeding methods -- as a doctor and someone who's also done his phd in genetics: there are no irresponsible risks. in contrast to conventional genetic engineering, no foreign genes are introduced into these plants. in many parts of the world, this technique is already being used, and some horror scenes are irrelevant because they didn't show up there. the rapporteur, jessica polfjärd, thank you very much for this! for example, the labelling of seeds against their original draft report is now included in the environment committee proposal. the environment committee has adopted this text by a clear majority of 47 to 31, so we should adopt it tomorrow in plenary. let's give our farmers this chance!
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am for innovation, for ntg legislation. the new genomic techniques are certainly useful, but i refuse to play the wizard apprentice and to take away all the freedom of choice from consumers and farmers. in the discussions on this text we have made some progress on certain points: for example, on the non-patentability of these new gmos, which the rapporteurs did not defend before the commission and which i defend here. but we must go further: ensure traceability, consumer information, effectively protect non-gmo sectors, including organic farming, and monitor environmental impacts. all this is common sense, prudence, loyalty to decades of struggle by this parliament, which has always fought for consumer rights and for the recognition of the diversity of agriculture. the european economic and social council therefore agrees with what i have just said. the european committee of the regions agrees with what i have just said. tens of thousands of citizens are expressing themselves and sending you emails to us to say so, and we should be deaf and blind to this mobilisation? no, i'm not! the worst part of this debate is that we will vote tomorrow. while the scientific basis of the commission proposal is in the midst of scientific controversy, the french anses agency has published a study which radically challenges the criteria proposed by the commission to distinguish between categories 1 and 2. this study must be serious, since we will discuss it in the envi committee after the vote. it must be serious, as parliament will ask efsa for a scientific opinion on the anses opinion, which will be delivered in july. you can see the absurdity of this debate on voting, when the very terms of the vote are still in the midst of controversy. so yes, this is absurd, but yes, we have to give tools to farmers, but yes, we have to give citizens an account, because they won't want to eat gmos without choosing and without knowing it. they also demand an accounting. the accounting meeting will not only be tomorrow, it will also be on june 9.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. there was once a great hope: the farm-to-fork strategy. less pesticides, less antibiotics, less chemical fertilizers. what happened to it? i'm not doing anything. what do you do now? i would like to say that we are not going to be able to do anything else. this sounds like a bayer-monsanto relief program, which is being rolled out right now. the eu is abandoning its precautionary principle. a principle governed by the eu leaves it with this proposal. there's no risk test. it's just that there's no risk. who ever proved that? there's no traceability, and the best part is, you can't even withdraw permits. and now come the usual promise of salvation of genetic engineering. yes, she's supposed to fight hunger, she's supposed to make fewer pesticides. look at south america -- the old genetic engineering has brought more pesticides, and so will the current one. now, here comes the climate change argument. of the 50 things on the table, there's only one plant that has anything to do with it; all the others have nothing to do with it at all. there's the famous gaba tomato that lowers blood pressure. that's what the world's been waiting for, isn't it? we need a clear label so that organic farms can continue to have the choice, because they do not. but mr lins wants to do away with the no-gene labelling even now. so you're turning this whole thing crazy backwards. and one more sentence on the subject of patents. it is claimed that there are no patents now. of course, there will still be patents! this is the business model of industry. we must change the european patent convention, and there is no question of that here, you are throwing sand in the eyes of the citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow is an important day for european agriculture and an important step towards sustainable agriculture. i know that there are many in the european parliament who oppose precision production methods and that they are deliberately mistaken for gmos. but gmos are fundamentally different from the new genomic techniques, also because, guys, there were already in europe and we don't know it. they are more efficient, more precise methods and are fundamental to improving drought tolerance. they are less susceptible to mold and other pests and can use nutrients better. this is crucial in a climate where we have more drought, more problems and a great push to reduce plant protection products and pesticides. so from this point of view we must go in this direction, because farmers will be pushed towards better production and, above all, a better yield of our land. i therefore call on all of you to vote for ngos.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, you have been beating farmers up for years. you've destroyed the work of those who break their backs every day in the fields. you have criminalized farmers and peasants. you welcomed them with a twisted twist outside the european parliament in brussels. you painted them as enemies of the climate. you even wanted to equate farms with industrial plants. you are pushing farmers to leave their land uncultivated, condemning them to the crisis and the closure of their farms. you prefer non-european products, which do not require the same standards of food safety and quality as you impose on our producers. you're imposing red tape and new costs on those who are already in trouble. you even want to kill animals because they pollute and you want to put environmental constraints on the pasture. you want labels like nutriscore that penalize the excellence of the territories without any scientific reason, favoring ultra-processed industrial foods. you ask for sacrifices from the farmers, but then you fund the synthetic meat and you give the ok to the multinationals to spread the use of crickets and squid. you have been following greta's slogans for years, finding in agriculture the enemy to be shamelessly defeated. agriculture is life, culture, history, it is the protection of the land. now, with this measure, you're giving the industry a little credit after years of mocking it, and only at the end of the term. it's not enough. the farmers are tired of your eurocrazy.
the commissioner has said that the commission is not going to be able to accept the proposal for a regulation on the new genomic techniques. i remind everyone that we in the league have asked from the very beginning for a change of pace and for a distinction between gmos and ngts. finally, europe has woken up and for once decided not to follow the environmental madness of the left greens, who are falsifying the facts. today we saw the difference and the step backwards that president von der leyen had to take. this is good news for the whole agricultural world, which has been waiting for decades for results. the only certainty that has not yet been made out of the text concerns non-patentability. we want to make sure that the plants are accessible to everyone, or our farmers will have to go back under these buildings to change the rules that the league requires right away. i would like to thank the university of udine for the great results achieved over the last few decades, the precursor of this research, which has been heard in the european commission and has a certain scientific basis.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, today, as european farmers rightly protest outside this building to defend their rights, to save farms and to guarantee genuine products to us consumers, we are here to discuss plants obtained by means of new genomic techniques and the food and feed derived from them. at a time when food security, environmental sustainability and technological innovation are at the heart of our concerns, some reflection is needed. the new techniques promise to improve agricultural productivity, making crops more resistant to disease and adverse climatic conditions and reducing the need for pesticides. we must be vigilant in ensuring that these advances in agriculture are safe for human health, environmentally friendly and ethically acceptable. we must not neglect the impact our choices will have on european consumers and especially on representatives of the agricultural sector, which have long been affected by community agricultural policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to reduce co2 emissions in the european union by 90% by 2040 is yet another demonstration of the irresponsibility and approximation with which the european commission defines its green policies. based on an analysis of the average increase in one degree of global temperatures over the last century, which does not take into account the much greater temperature fluctuations that have occurred over the past centuries, the thesis that the anthropic component of global warming is predominant over natural has been accepted, a thesis denied by thousands of scientists around the world. it is scientifically proven that 2,000 years ago the global average temperature was three degrees higher than today. these decarbonisation targets will not affect the rise in temperatures at all, but we will only achieve the result of destroying the european industrial and manufacturing system, pushing our companies to relocate to third countries to avoid dying, as they are already doing. to continue on this path is suicide for the european union. but weren't we all europeans?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do you want to drown europe? tell me once and for all. after years of mistakes, continue on this crazy path that will only lead to the suicide of our continent. what are your goals? reducing co2 by 90% by 2040 and climate neutrality by 2050. objectives that will only lead to industrial crises, social protests, layoffs and loss of value in competition with non-european countries: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. with your unwarranted choices, you're giving china the future. europe's emissions are less than 10%, and you act as if we are the only ones responsible for climate change, totally forgetting asian countries, for example. you give away commercial sectors to go buy goods from the very countries that produce them without any respect for the environment. it's a choice, frankly, totally incomprehensible. you're destroying the automotive industry, not realizing that we're going to become a chinese branch, which we already depend on today for batteries and rare earths. fifty percent of the electric cars manufactured in the world and 75 percent of the batteries are branded by china, which produces them using coal-fired power plants, which are increasing, not decreasing. well, what do you say? congratulations on this giant gift.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report on the situation in the community. i was rapporteur for the fourth revision of the directive we are discussing today. in the fourth revision we have managed to include the repot toxic substances in the directive. we got a great result. the directive was adopted by a very large majority in parliament, but above all we have involved all the social partners involved: trade unions, companies and trade associations. today we are discussing the fifth revision, which, in continuity with the previous one, offers further protection to european workers. this is a crucial step in our fight against cancer. protecting workers in the workplace must always be a priority for each of us.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to the evaluation of traineeships in europe, cooperation between the member states and the european union would have brought about significant improvements in apprenticeships and the integration of young people into the world of work. but it is clear that more needs to be done, given that today youth unemployment is at 15%. as the commission's assessment shows, the main problems would be the difficulty of finding suitable housing because of the high rent and low remuneration of young people. the training must be a key step in the formation of our young people, serving as a bridge between academia and the world of work. investing in the education of young people means investing in the future of the european union and its economy. europe must invest in the new generations, not forgetting the importance of studying the traditions and history of the european peoples, who are the richness and strength of the union itself.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, maría corina machado has been declared outlaw because she is a liberal and anti-communist. we know that this means that she is a free and fair woman, fighting for a better future for venezuela, with the support of her citizens. these principles are also the basis of european values and must be the basis of our demands for the unconditional release of all political prisoners, support for freedom of expression, independence of the electoral process and the judiciary, and respect for human rights. the exclusion of maría corina machado from the elections and the clear violation of the october 2023 agreement in barbados must have immediate consequences, as it is unimaginable that dictator-president maduro will abandon the lust for power and dirty dealings with drug traffickers. the european union's restrictive measures are being extended and new and very harsh sanctions are being imposed on the regime. the european union cannot and must not recognise that regime. the member states of the european union must fight with all their might this election-stealing regime in their country. i would like to ask the commissioner to take a decision on the matter. thank you, maría corina machado, we are with you.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for being here. we all agree that the rules of the wto must be changed, especially how it operates. but i would not like us to be optimistic about a defense of the world trade organization's orthodoxy that our international partners, primarily the americans and the chinese, do not pursue. the american ira was the demonstration that we can achieve our own ecological transition goals, but by attracting investment. we have introduced a system of rules so complex that we risk not improving on environmental issues but even avoiding possible investment. we could talk for hours about china, of course, compared to how it abused wto rules. so if we are the continent that has grown less in the world in the last 20 years, we have to ask ourselves some questions. it is not because i am a critic of the european commission's actions that you do not have to listen to me. the subject is really important. we must be more courageous in using the defence instruments that are regulated by the wto. these are rules that are there and should be used in a context, geopolitical, logistics crisis, that tells us that, oh my god, we had very fragile production lines, so long, so hard to protect in a situation as complicated as this. trade agreements that harm the primary sectors, agriculture and fisheries, and we see this in the protests of these weeks, because we think that these goods can also enter our continent, with different rules, with much lower standards than those we impose on our own, but all this ultimately leads to contradictions. trade agreements that are negotiated for a long time, for years, years and years, on principles that may be old and not current, unless then, for election campaign purposes, say: "no, no, no, let's stop, because if we don't, the voters won't follow us". so, we hope that abu dhabi can reflect on this for the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, subsidies for fisheries: the previous wto conference focused on this. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. but a big spectrum is on the horizon: the commission has also proposed that the commission should adopt a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain fishery products. for many years, our fishermen have been threatened by this sword of damocles and the risk of fuel taxes being re-imposed. if the marrakesh agreement is ratified by two thirds of the member states, we will have to appeal to article 4.3 to show that subsidies or other measures, such as maps or cgpm recommendations, are being implemented to restore stocks. and here we would need the support of europe, which has so far turned its head the other way. that is why in abu dhabi we cannot allow fuel tax relief to be considered as harmful subsidies. fisheries must live to contribute to european food security.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have been talking about a crisis in education systems for a long time, but we never want to admit that the problem is up there and that it also stems from the training and working conditions of teachers. the lack of attractiveness of the teaching profession, the lack of uniform continuing education programmes, a major geographical and educational imbalance, the lack of correspondence between demand and supply of teachers, not forgetting that the school is now the hostage of extreme bureaucracy and there is a lack of professional development and an inadequate salary. these are some of the wounds that affect the profession and that must be addressed at european level. the european integration process must involve education systems closely, promote transnational mobility, the free movement of qualifications and skills, while preserving local history and identity. only in this way can we make our school great for our young people.
mr president, when the european parliament receives a number of petitions from teachers who do not see their rights guaranteed, who do not receive fair wages, who do not feel recognition for their work, something is very wrong in the european union. the right to education is a fundamental right, the true guarantor of equal opportunities, and the successive pressures of the european union on national budgets are putting it at risk. endless hours of work, few training opportunities, inadequate pay, lack of teachers are just some of the problems reported. in portugal, teachers' salaries have not been updated for years and it is taking a long time to do justice to the recovery of their working time. there are many teachers who literally walk around with their home behind them, who don't see their recognized contractual ties, who spend years in precariousness and have been systematically ignored by successive governments. the demands of european teachers are right. we must give them answers and demand that member states fulfil their obligations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, low wages, disproportionate workloads, few guarantees and precarious contracts: in italy, as in other countries in southern europe, teachers are mistreated, even though education is the backbone of our society. their working conditions and wages are not worthy of their responsibilities. in italy, however, the three-year curbs on entry into primary schools reduce income for those who, far from home, are forced to pay unsustainable rent or very expensive travel. and this affects continuity of learning, not the other way around. the lack of continuity in teaching is tackled by tackling insecurity, which involves more than 400 000 teachers in our country, and by ensuring a balance between life and work. this is the best investment we can make for the future and in this respect we will ask the commission a question for my country.
mr president, quality education is key to building prosperous, sustainable and inclusive societies. our future, as well as the future of the whole european union, lies in the hands of teachers and the education system. as a longtime teacher and school principal, i have always stressed the importance of the parent-teacher-student relationship. but to do this, we must create optimal conditions for the work and development of teachers throughout the european union. in europe, education systems are facing a professional crisis in relation to the teaching profession. most countries experience problems with teacher shortages, teacher aging, difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified teachers, and increased psychological pressure and violence in schools. when asked about stressors, teachers point out the burden of administrative tasks, over-estimation, responsibility for student achievement, and compliance with changing authority requirements. our teachers deserve stable and decent working conditions and quality infrastructure, as well as adequate levels of pay. it is of the utmost importance that the commission and the member states work on a strategy to improve the prestige and attractiveness of the teaching profession, including in the most remote and sparsely populated areas, in order to promote the fight against negative demographic trends and retain talent in those regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, teachers are the centre of the school: they form, educate, transmit knowledge and culture to young people. school is the heartbeat of democracy, it's curiosity and diversity. if you invest in school, you invest in democratic participation. in recent years, teachers have been asked to take care of the difficulties of children, especially the psychosocial impact of the pandemic on adolescents. teachers are increasingly required to adopt new and experimental teaching methods, which involve greater responsibility and continuous updating. moreover, as many cases of chronicle show, violence and vandalism are on the rise. the increase in workloads does not correspond to an increase in wages, in the resources available or in the quality of the facilities. some actions in support of teachers are implemented through erasmus+, but without an adequate budget these actions will hardly be able to produce tangible results. if we want a fairer society, we need to invest in schools, a place where people can find their vocation, their place in the world, along with others.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must be ever more aware of the fact that the future of the european union is strongly linked to the kind of education we can provide our young people. the commitment to a european area of quality, equitable and inclusive education is essential in this respect. the shared and necessary objective is therefore to make the teaching profession more attractive by raising the salary levels and restoring to it the social prestige that has been lost, as well as the high professional quality needed to meet the many challenges facing the world of schooling. special attention should be paid to teachers who support teachers, for whom this general intention must be combined, on the one hand, with the need for increasingly professionalising and specific training paths on the various disabilities and, on the other hand, with the urgency of new methods of allocation and continuity of time, which must be subordinated exclusively to the needs of pupils with disabilities. i would remind you that, in the absence of specialised teachers, these students, who are already on the way up, find themselves entrusted with the task of being substitutes, often without the skills to be of assistance, thanks to derogations that persist from year to year. the aim is then to have more motivated and prepared supporting teachers, avoiding the problem much warned and denounced by many families of the dramatic teacher's tour imposed on the most fragile pupils, forced to repeatedly change teachers during the same school cycle. in italy, for example, according to recent surveys, this problem affects 59% of pupils, with incidences reaching 62% in secondary schools and 75% in early childhood schools. i ask the commission to give these pupils dignity, guaranteeing them the right to continuing their education.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regents and alternates waiting for the inaugural chair: this is the fate of many, too many teachers who, even in 2024, have to deal with precarious working conditions, unattractive wages, exhausted graduation, burnout episodes that risk having repercussions on students and a understandable vocational crisis among young people. there are no teachers and no principals, and so the staff gets older. there is difficulty in hiring and the cost is the quality of education for our children. we must find solutions and the veneto, my region, has asked for autonomy to manage staff more quickly and efficiently. and this eu must also do its utmost to support member states in improving education systems through dedicated and high-quality teacher training, especially in the increasingly demanded and necessary digital skills. rita levi-montalcini used to say: "the choice of a young man depends on his inclination, but also on the luck of meeting a great master". we must therefore secure great teachers for the future of our young people and to do this we must train train trainers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, on the questions raised by mrs montserrat, i would like to know the european commission's intentions to concretely achieve the european education area by 2025, while also protecting more effectively the right to mobility of the teaching profession in the various member states. a possibility provided for in directive 35 of 2005, but in fact discriminated against in many countries, as i regret to point out once again in italy. the recent law 74 of 2023 seriously restricts the right to mobility, which concerns the provision of fixed-term contracts to teachers with foreign support. the problem is that there is no uniform eu system for the recognition of teaching experience in all european countries. i ask whether the automatic recognition system provided for in articles 10 and 21 of directive 36 should not be adopted, even for the teaching profession, which is currently limited to certain professions. the ambitions of the european union are shared, but let us start with ensuring freedom of movement and establishment for workers. in italy, 20 000 teachers are discriminated against. concepts like "equivalence" and "equivalence of titles" are virtually unknown in my beloved italy.
