mr president, dear colleagues, the united west is 25 times stronger than russia, and has the economic power to support ukraine to win the war. but still, it is not the case. last year, russia spent more than eur 100 billion for its war in ukraine. ukraine, with all the assistance from the west, spent for its defence only eur 80 billion. last year, russia spent 6 % of its gdp for the war, ukraine 25 %. eu military assistance for ukraine was only 0.075 % of eu gdp. the us did a little bit better at 0.1 %. assistance to ukraine is very different by different countries. lithuania and estonia gave 1.4 % of gdp. germany increased up to 0.5 %, but france’s assistance is only 0.02 %. numbers are showing that if all the nato and eu countries would support ukraine with no less than 0.25 % of their gdp, ukraine would prevail. this is a victory formula. let’s do it!
mr president, wow. how active putin’s proxies have become here! something new. while it is clear that the eu has already supported ukraine beyond anyone’s expectations, today, every day of our delay costs ukrainian blood. a ukrainian defeat would cost infinitely more than the money needed for a ukrainian victory. orbán is blocking eur 50 billion for ukraine. the eu as a whole has spent for ukraine only 0.075% of gdp per year so far. this war is about whether democracies are even capable of taking the necessary decisions and defending themselves. the fate of future generations is at stake. we are much stronger than the morally rotten putin regime. to win the long lasting, sustainable peace, we need political will and military support for ukraine. otherwise, all forthcoming elections and the fights between us will remain the most shameful page in european history. a fatal mistake, just as it was in 1938.
the president, my colleagues. doubting feelings include listening to these discussions. first, i think we need to understand that the ukrainians are not defending their freedom, but our freedom. the aggressor who has occupied part of sakartvel, part of moldova, part of ukraine will not stop if he is allowed to. the second point, as colleagues have already mentioned, is the unequal support of the member states for ukraine in arms. do you agree, commissioner, council, that we can't really agree in two years? we only promise and do very little of what is needed today. not in a month, not in a year, but now we need to keep people safe and to protect ukraine and to protect the european union. try to do what you should do.
the president, the commissioner, my colleagues. after the collapse of the soviet union, russia became its successor and thus inherited a threefold legacy: one of the world's largest military-industrial complexes; the right to veto in the united nations security council; the role of the organization for security and cooperation in europe; well, the right to simultaneously foment local conflicts and to present itself as their mediator. we are considering the ambition of preventive diplomacy, and let us ask ourselves what we, the european parliament in this term, have achieved so far. just being really angry. the karabakh conflict is still under stalin's agenda, and un monitors only entered the conflict zone after ethnic armenians who had lived there for centuries were forced to flee in mass numbers in 2023. who was that poor mediator? russia. the territories of padniestr, abkhazia, south ossetia are de facto manipulated by the russians, to our surprise. when, if not during our term of office, were the areas of donetsk, luhansk, zaporizhia and cherson seized by military force, annexed de facto and still subject to pseudo-referenda? it has become the standard and highly effective russian practice of rejecting all diplomacy. it recognizes only force, and therefore we must strive to apply deterrence and prevention measures before new conflicts arise and to focus on the post-soviet space.
mr president, viktor orbán is misbehaving domestically with violation of democracy, rule of law, human rights, european values, and is misbehaving externally with blackmailing of all the eu with misuse of veto right. what orbán is doing domestically, we can discuss for a long time, but now we are concerned with the veto blackmail, which is external action. but still we are speaking only about article 7, which is devoted to defend eu values against domestic misbehaviour of national governments. i would like to remind that there is also article 4, part 3 in the treaty, which says, ‘the member states shall facilitate the achievement of the union’s tasks and refrain from any measure which could jeopardise the attainment of the union’s objectives’. it is very clear that orbán’s actions jeopardise the attainment of the union’s objectives to support ukraine, and he is not refraining from his permanent blackmail tactic. this is a clear violation of the treaty. i would like to remind also that according to the treaty, article 17, the commission shall ensure the application of the treaties. let’s act now and let’s stop blackmail of the union.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all, thank you for your strong leadership. ukraine has shown a miracle. let’s remember the first weeks. how many here believed that ukraine would stop the russians at kyiv? two years of this war have also shown a miracle of european unity. we know what we have already done by standing together. today, we have to talk and agree on what is needed to win this war. first of all, the front needs even more support now, today, this particular minute. second, we must believe that we can win this war. we, the democratic world, are many times stronger than russia. the economic power is incomparable. however, the eu-wide support to ukraine is only 0.075% of gdp per year. is it really an indicator that shows our understanding of europe’s existential war? third, we must not be afraid of russia, just as the ukrainians are not afraid. we must not be afraid of putin’s blackmail and the defeat of his regime. putin must lose. fourth, we need a comprehensive plan for the victory of ukraine. this requires a vast development of the eu defence industry. now is the time for the european union to get its act together on security. a defence union is needed as never before. but i see such a union only together with ukraine, with ukraine, in the eu and in nato, with its army, which is clearly the strongest army in europe today. the victory of ukraine will be the victory of the whole europe. only victory can solve the historic eastern dilemma in europe. slava ukraini! long live europe!
mr president, ukrainians for two years and with a lot of sacrifice have been defending not only their country, but also all of us, including mr wallace. the victory of ukraine depends on our political will to deliver what is needed for victory. ukrainians are not failing with their bravery and sacrifice. we are failing with our assistance. our assistance during those two years allowed ukraine not to lose a war, but it was too short for the victory. let’s remember that last year, russia managed to spend more than eur 100 billion on its war, while the ukrainian side – with all our assistance – had only eur 80 billion. all eu military assistance in the last year reached less than 0.1 % of eu gdp. we do not look serious with such numbers. the problem is that all our assistance depends on individual voluntary decision of each member state on how much support to provide. such an arrangement does not produce enough support. we have an example of our collective approach through the european union plan for munitions deliveries. despite its shortcomings, it is a good example of how the eu needs to act. we need to have an eu plan for the victory of ukraine, which would cover all the military needs of ukraine, not only artillery shells. such a plan should start from the obligation of each member state to deliver military assistance of not less than 0.25% of national gdp. as sven mikser said before, it would allow military production to be significantly increased both in ukraine and in europe. that is how ukraine would start to prevail. the victory of ukraine is needed for us, and let us make it. slava ukraini!
the president, my colleagues. we are truly grateful to the ukrainians for defending our values and the future of our children against russian aggression. it was a shame we couldn't agree on support for ukraine for almost two months. today we have a decision on 50 billion euros of aid. but as you all know, there is little. colleagues said we still don't use the 300 billion euros of frozen russian assets. our sanctions are not working effectively enough, but we still have this embarrassing, almost legal trade, which amounts to about 200 billion euros, with russia. some ukrainian and lithuanian experts propose that the commission tax this trade by war and thus raise almost eur 10 billion in aid to ukraine. i call on the commission and the council to consider this.
the president, my fellow members of the commission. look outside the room: farmers' protests are spreading across europe. tractors are blocking roads and cities because european farmers - our citizens, who are still suffering from the energy crisis and inflation - are worried about the future of their farms. if we are to at least reduce their fear and dissatisfaction in europe, we must show that brussels is not only a source of limitations but also of opportunity. as a member of the agri committee, i am committed to helping our farmers achieve the sustainable goals of the green path, the new economy to table and the strategy for biodiversity. we must ensure that bees and other pollinators are protected from harmful pesticides and chemicals to ensure that there is enough to maintain the biodiversity and ecosystems of the land to ensure that the food consumed by our citizens is safe. at the same time, we must ensure the sustainable functioning of the food chain, strengthen the security and sovereignty of europe's food supply and enable farmers, including small, medium and young farmers, to maintain their holdings economically viable. precision breeding technology new tools that farmers need most. they remove radiation from the breeding process and are a faster and more accurate method of extracting new varieties. the european food safety authority has established that new technologies do not pose specific risks and that there are even fewer inaccurate mutations. nearly 40 nobel laureates and a thousand scientists signed an open letter urging the door to new technologies. european scientists and farmers must have access to these safe and necessary technologies without any restrictions, without any excessive restrictions. i therefore ask for your consent to this document.
my colleagues, especially tatyana ždanoko, never call latvia to the european parliament. she's the kremlin's representative here. i'm sorry about that. the latvians, my brothers and sisters, are a noble european nation, and the pride is the product of soviet russification and the kgb regime. unfortunately, since 2004, the european parliament and the green group have paid millions of euros for a kremlin representative to act as an influential agent. but we must see this as a systematic, long-standing expression of kremlin policy. not only this, but other influencers are constantly speaking from this platform. they visited russian-occupied territories and were not condemned. the kremlin's influence is reinforced not only by political platforms but also by business, culture, media, and even the church. the kremlin's main export is corruption. the kremlin is taking part in our elections, in our referendums, as shown by the spanish investigation. putin's dirty soft power continued to operate in europe until he was 22. the public is the primary weapon. thank you to the brave journalists of the insider. but we need to take more serious action. we must clear europe of the bloody kremlin's money and influence. well, here we are where political groups are most responsible for the activities of their members. we must learn to protect democracy.
madam president, dear colleagues, we need to stress that russia’s interference in the democratic processes of the member states and eu institutions is exceptional and unique in terms of the threats and dangers it poses to the fundamental principles of democracy in europe. russia gate is much more dangerous than qatargate. such an exceptional character of russian foreign interference requires special focus dedicated specifically to the threats of russian interference. till now, our institutions were failing to defend us against such threats. maybe investigative journalism and voters in latvia and spain, especially catalonia, in italy, france and germany, and in all other countries can help us. that is why i would like the european parliament to prepare a special information paper, a sort of ‘shame book of europe’, with all the data on cases of russian interference in the democratic processes of the member states that have been uncovered by investigative journalists in the member states. and such a report should be published before the european elections. saving democracy is a business of democracy itself.
