two-card answer. of course, there have always been and always will be disputes. i know this in the faction exactly, but of course that's not what this is about. it's about whether or not someone can take into account the interests of their country, like you. it can take the interests of ten million people into account. manfred weber and i may have a lot of personal criticism, but it's definitely a balancing act, right? but when someone has tried to do it only against their own country and their own citizens, it can certainly not be judged otherwise than it is a very bad policy, which obviously has consequences.
mr president, the rule of law is still not guaranteed in hungary. new laws contrary to the fundamental values of the european union continue to be voted on. the commission's unlocking of funds to hungary therefore poses a danger to the defence of union rights and the safeguarding of union funds. while it is true that it is important to ensure that the institutions are not blocked and viktor orban does not hesitate to block our union by abusing the right of veto we cannot, however, under any circumstances accept being blackmailed. the credibility of the european union is at stake. if we disapprove of the commission's unlocking of funds, we blame the council for its lack of effective action under article 7. the council has the power to decide on sanctions, which would prevent the hungarian government from blocking the union. the council had the power to decide that the hungarian government would not hold the presidency next semester. the council must take responsibility and do everything possible to prevent the hungarian president from holding the presidency of the council from july onwards, in addition to the presidency of the european union. this scenario is absolutely unacceptable and even unthinkable.
i would like to ask the commissioner, mr president, if he can do that. the social market economy is what makes europe strong. but of course, high-quality work also requires high-quality working conditions. if a woman rushes to the office in the morning with her child in her hand and it does not fit back and forth with the working hours, with the working conditions, with the work-life balance, then we must of course also improve the working conditions accordingly so that this corresponding high quality of work will enable high-quality jobs. and what does that include? the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the workforce is able to work more effectively and that the workforce is able to work more effectively. we need the social protocol in the european union so that we can meet these conditions in a way that creates high-quality jobs.
mr president, today we discuss quality jobs that should boost europe’s future economy. but therefore we need a skilled workforce, which we are currently lacking, and to get this skilled workforce we firstly must guarantee a quality education that is accessible and inclusive for all, meaning the less privileged and marginalised groups too. secondly, we need a legal basis for traineeships that best prepare for these jobs, especially youth. traineeships that are of course fairly remunerated, as i requested in my report on the quality traineeships initiative. therefore i call upon commissioner schmit to put forward a legal proposal before the end of this mandate. and thirdly, the future european economy can only be competitive if it guarantees equal chances and opportunities for all, because only together we can succeed.
mr president, commissioner, for almost a decade the eu has been trying to interfere with our national rules on internships, but unfortunately without success. as usual, this obsession with harmonization is a slap in the face for member states. our labour markets are diverse and all unique. they are the result of our national policies, our concern for our young people, our way of integrating individuals into their work. as long as the two parties are transparent, the trainee and the employer are fully committed to a relationship. who can claim to judge it? my country, france, has been setting up internships for a very long time and this framework is very clear. an apprentice is there to learn and be aware of a world of quality work in order to ensure the taste of the trade and not to replace an employee or a regular worker. you want to help us? stop trying to impose your ways on us, let us enforce all our laws and hunt down when necessary the companies guilty of abuse. we'll be in perfect agreement here.
excuse me, could you please follow the rules and not show props.
colleagues, also concerning blue cards, if you would like to ask a question, please do not do it at the last second, otherwise it’s difficult. it is not for you, it was for the previous speaker.
mr president, dear colleagues, honourable commissioner, in november 2023 we approved the resolution, with recommendations to the commission, on quality traineeships, requesting more funding and stronger implementation for the member states. roma youth, whom i represent, are especially desperate for more opportunities because about 83% of roma children are at risk of poverty, especially now, after the war and also the covid situation. about 52% of them still go to segregated classes. the eu, with the spanish presidency, has made a big step on desegregation, but we have to go further. in hungary a few years ago, we started to develop programmes for roma children in afternoon schools, after school, and we paired them with music and talent support programmes – for example football and different sports projects. these were talent support programmes. eu programmes such as horizon and erasmus plus are great and affordable opportunities for these students coming from very, very low strata of the european union. we already have teachers and researchers who could be working on these projects. but in hungary, for example, erasmus placement opportunities are very limited now because we don’t get the monies, so the programmes are stopping. so … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am very much looking forward to the commission's proposal and am one of many young people who have already completed several internships in european countries. sometimes you get paid more, sometimes less, sometimes not at all. in some cases there was not even a detailed contract, let alone the right to, among other things, well-deserved leave. i can therefore, from my own experience, understand very well why the demand for minimum standards of quality for internships is increasing. last year, this topic was also high on the agenda of the european youth event. we must act now. the practical training is a valuable tool, because it is not only a learning opportunity and often the first professional experience for students, but it is also of great importance for businesses if they are given the necessary structure. the following are therefore necessary: fair remuneration of traineeships which correspond to the cost of living, clear working conditions and access to social protection in accordance with the national system, clear learning objectives and access to adequate care and guidance by trained mentors, equal opportunities and elimination of all forms of discrimination, improved access to traineeships for traineeships from socially disadvantaged backgrounds. so, overall, an internship should get the appreciation and the framework it deserves.
mr president, five years, five years ago and five more years lost. in fact, five more years, plus so many others, without solving one of the main problems affecting young people across europe. it is indeed painful to have to come back here to this plenary to demand the same things again and again, when this scourge should have been eliminated long ago. working without pay is unworthy. it is unworthy and not proper for a europe which claims to be social and claims to be at the side of people. and factors like age or entry into the labour market cannot serve as a justification for us to accept that those who work are not paid. in addition to not allowing our youth to be emancipated, it also exacerbates the existing inequalities, since only those with a good socioeconomic background can benefit from unpaid work. almost half of trainees in the european union do not receive a salary and more than 60% do not have access to any social protection. the president of the european commission has pledged to accept the european parliament's demands and to legislate on this matter. these young people, these trainees, demand that the president of the european commission keep his word, that he be ambitious and not listen behind technical ambiguities. the young europeans, many thousands of them, demand a concrete answer, and that answer is very clear. it's time to end unpaid internships and it's time to end it now.
mr president, dear commissioner, as rapporteur on the european parliament’s initiative report on quality traineeships, i appreciate your speech and the words which are quite in line with parliament’s position, which was a longstanding demand of european youth. we called for fair remuneration to prevent abuse by limiting the duration of traineeships to six months, for example, because we think that trainees are not cheap employees. we also claimed for traineeships to be inclusive and accessible for all, and also to improve and encourage cross-border traineeships by improving the eures platform – and you also mentioned in your speech that quality traineeships should also have a real learning experience. you mentioned that the commission is preparing an initiative. i would like to know what is meant by the word ‘initiative’, and i’m hopeful that we can start with it by before the end of the mandate, and that you find a way to put it on the way. let’s make this happen, please, for european youth.
mr president, today, 8 february 2024, we have to debate the working conditions of teachers in the european union. but this debate should have taken place a long time ago. it was supposed to have taken place before 16 october 2020, the day of the death of samuel paty, a college history and geography professor, who was beheaded by an islamist terrorist for showing two caricatures of muhammad from the charlie hebdo newspaper during a free speech class. on that day, and for the first time, terrorism was invited to the school, the sanctuary of knowledge. but, unfortunately, that wasn't the last time. on october 13, 2023, french teacher dominique bernard was stabbed by an islamist terrorist. they died for doing their job. they died trying to pass on their knowledge to the children. today, teachers must work with the islamic threat above their heads. they must speak to certain children whose parents refuse science, refuse freedom of expression, refuse the values of france. today, many teachers self-censorship out of fear of retaliation, out of fear of dying to do their job. it is high time to open our eyes to the eu's migration policies, which are directly responsible for this situation. they advocate the uncontrolled opening of borders and the destruction of national identities. it is high time to end your policies...
mr president, i thank the commissioner for answering this important question. however, i would like to describe the situation of teachers in the czech republic, because it is alarming. teacher salaries are not decent, despite the government's election promises to raise them to 150 percent of the average salary. but after the teacher was elected, the government threw him overboard. investment in education, unlike investment in arms, is almost non-existent and, as a result of high inflation, spending will remain less than in the previous year. non-educational workers such as chefs, cleaners or trainers are not affected by the increase in wages. the minister of education, in spite of his reason, decided to keep the number of teachers under control in a senseless attempt to prevent a reduction in the number of students per teacher, thereby seriously jeopardizing the quality of teaching. despite the strikes by the education workers, prime minister fiala, in his arrogance, made it sound that he considered the strikes unjustified. i'll just be happy when the situation finally starts to work out. the commission will stop cutting back and we will realize that educating our children is our future.
mr president, today, being a teacher is the gallery. in europe, this vocation is becoming less common and there is an ageing teacher population and increasing difficulty in recruiting. word and physical violence is on the rise. some teachers pay their lives to teach what the news has unfortunately been too painfully told us in recent months. the unrest is increasing: workplace exhaustion and other unsustainable psychological pressures have almost become the norm. infrastructure is sometimes inadequate, classes are often overcrowded, and teachers, once symbols of authority, are less and less respected, either by children or even by parents or even by the authorities, who are struggling to come up with adequate budgets. investing in education must be the top priority because it means investing in our children, to whom we are leaving an unprecedented environmental crisis, geopolitical, social and economic crises. investing in education means giving everyone and everyone a chance to find solutions to crises they do not deserve.
the president, the chairman, the president of the european parliament, has not often debated the conditions of the working of ministers in the european parliament. i therefore welcome the debate. i'm a self-made man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, i'm a good man, freisin, leave the teachers to work and work hard, no hamháin outside of the school, no school, no school, no school. and especially in my own life, don chumann luthchleas gael and general sports courses. at the same time, we have a lot of teachers who are interested in the environment. we should be able to get into school and get into school, and we should be able to get the young teachers to work instead of the young teachers. and also, they have a lot of teachers younger than learner and they have to learn, and they have to have a lot of recognition to give to experience without having to go through the years without a chaitheann siad thar lear when they come siad ar ais abhaile, trí thuarastal more to thabhairt dóibh. i'm not a big fan of the air, i'm a big fan of the air, i'm a big fan of the air, especially in the working conditions. teachers abuse god!
president. - i am pleased that there are teachers from zwolle in the public forum. a particularly enjoyable visit at this time. i 'd like to begin with a quote: let no one say that schoolteachers are not an adventurous job. the speaker is master staal, who taught at an amsterdam school for the poor in the early 20th century. he writes about his profession with pride, and rightly so. to anyone who hasn't read it yet: read the happy class by theo thijssen. teaching is shaping the future, and teaching is indeed a profession. however, there are increasing obstacles limiting the work of teachers. if it is not the administrative burden, it is a surplus of managers and directors who restrict the autonomy of the teacher, making them less likely to devote themselves to teaching. i therefore call for more permanent contracts with good salaries and without creating secondary or tertiary teachers. please give teachers the appreciation they deserve.
mr president, dear commissioner, you stated that many teachers have difficulties transferring basic knowledge. in my experience, some teachers do more than transferring basic knowledge. in my third grade, i had a teacher who made me write essays all the time. i found it a bit annoying back then, but nowadays i am thankful to mrs cook because i became a journalist before becoming a politician. and that’s why each pupil deserves a teacher that has the will, the vocation and the time to identify and foster one’s potential. a teacher can be a guide, a mentor, an inspiration and even a role model. teachers with better working conditions – for example, who do not face overcrowded classrooms – can afford to dedicate more time to their students. and this is the quality education we all call for. therefore, member states must invest in their education systems to guarantee better working conditions for teachers and realise smaller classrooms. and on a final note, we must guarantee equal access to quality education for all. we must avoid students being segregated and zero tolerance for discrimination related to origin, condition, disability or socioeconomic background. investing in teachers, investing in education is investing in the citizens of tomorrow.
