member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank the employment committee for formulating these questions because, as you said now, the importance and the size of eu public procurement market is significant – 14 % of the eu gdp is spent every year by over 250 000 public authorities and entities to purchase goods and services, and to construct. this economic significance also means that public procurement is a powerful leveraging tool for spurring innovation and developing social and environmentally friendly solutions. public procurement is also increasingly recognised as an important strategic economic policy tool to pursue policies, including in the sphere of social responsibility, and to shape our internal market and make it more efficient but also fair. the eu public procurement directive, adopted in 2014, aimed at transforming public procurement from a process driven legalistic exercise to a genuinely relevant physical for delivering change in europe. our procurement rules do provide public buyers with greater flexibility to use public procurement as a strategic tool. yet it is a reality that more contracts could be awarded based on quality criteria, supporting the green and social transition, and not only based on the lowest price. and recently, by the way, the commission has recommended that in the field of green technologies, in the face of foreign competition that does not always respect all the rules, this is precisely the approach that has to be applied. this underlines not only the social aspect, but also the industrial and strategic aspect that has to be fully taken into account. now, on your first question, the current eu public procurement directives do allow public authorities to ensure decent working conditions for the staff executing the contract in line with eu labour law. they also require economic operators to comply with all applicable eu or national labour obligations, including on collective agreements and bargaining during the performance of the contracts. the commission has also developed several actions to provide guidance to the public authorities, in particular the commission’s buying social guide, published in may 2021, provides public buyers with clear and concrete guidance on how to make their procurement more socially responsible and to ensure compliance with labour law. and this also applies, by the way, to social enterprises, to give social enterprises also the possibility to be part of public procurement. the commission has also launched the big buyers working together project to support collaboration between public buyers and to promote the wider use of strategic public procurement. this new project includes, inter alia, activities specifically relating to social procurement. it aims to build better understanding of the social, labour and ethical impact of public contracts, and how to use public procurement to achieve a positive impact in these areas. as to your second question, the ilo convention no 94 is indeed not yet added to the list of ilo conventions in annex x of directive 2014/24 on public procurement. the reason for this is that the ilo conventions listed in this annex are part of the ilo declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work, and they have already been ratified by all eu member states. the fundamental principles and rights at work have to be realised, respected and promoted by all members of the ilo. grounds for amending the list in the annex are set out in article 56 of the directive to add new international agreements that have been ratified by all member states. however, as mentioned, convention no 94 is not yet, hopefully, currently ratified by all member states. in relation to measures to ensure compliance with the fundamental ilo conventions, the directive on public procurement sets out that member states shall take appropriate measures to ensure that in the performance of public contracts economic operators comply with applicable obligations in the fields of environmental, social and labour law established by union law, national law, collective agreements or by the international environmental, social and labour law provisions listed in annex x. i also want to refer that finally, it’s due to the european parliament that there is a social clause in the procurement directive, and that also when we discussed about the adequate minimum wage directive, parliament insisted on an as strong as possible article 9 on the linkage between collective bargaining and especially adequate minimum wages and public procurement as a leverage finally to respect these provisions, but also to create a fair and level playing field because if some respect minimum wages or collective bargaining and others not, this is also finally falsifying competition when we are talking about public procurement. as to your third question on joint and several liability in subcontracting chains, the public procurement directives are not the sole legal framework relevant to the issue of strengthening social rights, good working conditions and inclusive labour markets. the proposal for a directive on corporate sustainability, due diligence, on which co-legislators recently achieved a political agreement, is relevant here. it will set obligations for large companies to address the actual and potentially adverse impacts on human rights and the environment, also with respect to the operations of their subsidiaries and those carried out by their business partners. the directive will also lay down conditions for triggering on penalties and civil liability for infringing those obligations. with regard to your fourth question on funding, the commission has taken steps to ensure that union funding promotes socially responsible procurement procedures. the financial regulation provides for a number of measures that secure the promotion of socially responsible public procurement by eu institutions. on this basis, social aspects, for example, related to social and professional inclusion and equality and gender-related considerations are taken into account in procurement procedures. as far as question five is concerned, public authorities have several means to support the upskilling and reskilling of workers. they can ask in the clauses related to contract execution to require upskilling and reskilling of workers when it is related to the subject matter of the contract. they can also include upskilling and reskilling of workers as a key performance indicator as part of the award criteria. the bid of the economic operator offering higher upskilling or reskilling would get a higher score and better position to win the tender. finally, it is important to mention the ability of the commission to monitor the procurement with social impact and to disseminate best practices to establish peer-to-peer learning. the commission has launched important projects in this context. the new standard forms for uploading public procurement notices in the tender daily database will allow for better collection of procurement data on social procurement. with the public procurement data space, which will be operational this year, national governments will share information on procurement of lower value that are currently registered at a national level only. this will no doubt improve the quality of the data available. to conclude, public procurement in general is a powerful tool that can foster a more inclusive and equitable society and safeguard the rights of workers in public contracts. by using public procurement in a strategic way, public authorities can incentivise economic operators to adopt practices that preserve fundamental rights, enhance working conditions, promote upskilling, and foster inclusivity in the labour market. the european commission has therefore supported and promoted this strategic approach to socially responsible public procurement through several initiatives that emphasise the integration of social considerations within public procurement practices across member states.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. if you look at the european parliament's toolbox, how we can deal with the european commission and get things going, then the oral question is certainly not the thick hammer, but perhaps more like a little nail or a tear. but if you've ever tried to do that, you know that it can have an effect. and that is why i think it is right that we should put these issues of public procurement on the commissioner's chair today. i do not think that he deserved it personally, but i do think that it is a mistake that the european commission has not addressed the issue of public procurement in this legislature for two reasons: the first is, of course, the social aspect, no doubt. we have decided on the european minimum wage here, we have advanced it. and of course, the question of linking, tariff linking and public procurement is a very important element in ensuring more tariff linking. because we're talking about public funds. and of course it is justified to say that, especially in a social market economy, we want to give public funds primarily to those who also follow the rules of the social market economy. but the second point i consider a major failure is the question of sustainability. i come from a steel site in the ruhr, and we often have this discussion: why do we have chinese steel in german highway bridges and not duisburg steel? and the answer is very simple: because the current state of sustainability issues don't matter there. and i think an institution like the european commission that has been so high on the green deal must also make sure that it plays a role in future public procurement.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear commissioner, i think the holes in the eu's public procurement rules are too well known, because study after study shows that the voluntary nature of social public procurement is not really making enough of a difference. we still see this race to the bottom. public contracts are most often awarded socially based on the cheapest offer, and too often to companies that violate labour rights. secondly, the companies prioritise cost over quality of service and fair labour practices. and third, and in the end, it's the workers that suffer from the system because it leads to exploitation, underpayment and violations of their basic rights. the message of this debate today is we can no longer allow companies to lower their standards while maximising their profits at the expense of workers. public spending must be conditional on social requirements, respect for collective agreements, for working conditions and for ilo conventions. finally, the commissioner also mentioned the minimum wage directive. we, in this directive, put the threshold of the minimum amount of people covered by collective agreements at 80%. how can we strengthen social, collective bargaining while, on the other hand, maintaining the existing public procurement rules, which limit the push for a higher coverage rate of collective bargaining? i think it's clear it's time for change.
- your honor, the president. in accordance with the principle of socially responsible public procurement, consideration should be given to the aspects of social inclusion, equal treatment, accessibility and development for all users. similarly, the principles of universal planning under the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities are also considered. in hungary, the contracting authority may maintain the right to participate in the public procurement procedure or, where ordered by the government, be obliged to maintain protected jobs that employ workers with reduced or more than 30% of the working capacity, disability or disadvantaged persons. i know that other member states have similar instruments. i ask the commission to recommend these examples to the other member states in presenting good practice, because this is the only way we can move forward on this issue.
mr president, i had the great honour and the heavy task of being in charge of the revision of public procurement legislation just ten years ago, since it was voted on 15 january 2014. our aim at the time was clearly to combat social dumping and unfair competition in labour markets, but also to increase the quality and efficiency of services to citizens, to facilitate access to markets for smes, to ensure that good working conditions and environmental criteria are met. after a long political struggle, the text made it clear that the criterion for public procurement was based mainly on quality and not systematically on the lowest price. this is essential in the fight against social dumping, but also in terms of working conditions, while ensuring that the citizens have a job well done. but like you, i have read the conclusions of the recent european parliament study on the social impact of public procurement and i find with great bitterness that even today, public authorities face legal obstacles and uncertainties when trying to apply the criteria for social and environmental allocation. i would like to ask the commission to resolve this situation which is totally contrary to the wishes of the legislature and contrary to the general interest.
mr president, it is very important that europe is an excellent place to live, work, raise your children, care for your loved ones, and even retire and get old. europe that has achieved the european pillar of social rights in practice. a europe that truly supports workers and trade unions and that is based on fair pay, quality work, safety and respect for the fundamental rights of our workers. eu rules on money and public procurement are crucial to us being able to achieve all this. public money must support the creation of quality jobs and support collective bargaining. public money must go to economic operators who respect workers and trade union rights, who negotiate with trade unions, and their workers (including workers of their subcontractors) who should also be covered by collective agreements. to this end, we need to revise european rules on public procurement and introduce strong social conditionality linked to all forms of state aid, public funding, investments and commitments to our businesses. public procurement rules need to guarantee that tenders support the creation of quality jobs and promote collective bargaining, improved working conditions, and quality training. strong social conditions should be reflected in all financial rules governing the use of european union funds, both from the budget of the european union and those generated outside the budget. public money should no longer create a bottom-up but instead be used to fuel the european pillar of social rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president! every time we go to a store, a supermarket, we see lots of logos, lots of advertisements, telling us that products are green products, recyclable products, products that are sustainable. greenwashing is a real problem. plastic water bottle can never be made of a material that is 100% recyclable. we have a situation today, for example, where ryanair is telling us, and they are making our consumers pay euros, because they are telling us that this is part of the environmental effort they are making to reduce pollution. major companies like coca-cola, danone, nestlé, are also advertising in a way that is creating a lot of confusion - which is misleading too - many claims that they are similar. these companies today are taking advantage of a situation where we have legal gaps that they are creating in order to totally guide our consumers with many of these types of labels. having a situation to make our products last longer is also an important part of the sustainability we need to create. the work and negotiations undertaken by the bilan will help our consumers make sustainable decisions to truly achieve positive results in terms of our environmental transition; let us help our consumers make the best choices.
madam president, my honorable public defender, allow me to express, as do my colleagues here, my deepest gratitude for your work and my deepest respect for the way you run this office. it is not always customary for us all to agree in common on a particular social phenomenon. we are divided, right, left, more european factions, less european factions. but as i have seen the debate, there is a consensus in the evaluation of your work, and all the colleagues here are expressing admiration for the way the ombudsman works and for the specific things you do. so congratulations on that, because getting the respect of most mps is not easy. anyway, i want to support your work, too. i want to support the report we're discussing here today, the report for 2022. i hope that report will be supported by a vote of all my colleagues. and i want to say that i really appreciate how your office is helping to cultivate public authority within the eu, to make decisions more transparent and to make the information and documents issued by the eu institutions more accessible. the fact that your office is very important also shows that in 2022 your office asked for information, for help, for over 16,000 citizens. i think that's clear, and i want to thank you for that. so i'll back up the report and thank you for your work.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs emily o'reilly on her remarkable work and commitment to continue her efforts to ensure that the european union meets the highest standards of administration, transparency and ethics of the institutions, bodies, officers and agencies of the european union, and guarantees the accessibility and quality of the services the european union provides to all citizens. i would also like to thank mrs oreilly for her excellent work and her collaboration with the european parliament and especially the committee on petitions, as well as with the other institutions of the european union. it is important to emphasise the improvement of the ombudsman's efficiency rate, for the duration of the case investigation closed in 2022, covering several areas of the administration of the european union with limited resources. we must continue to improve the way the administration of the european union works in order to make it fully transparent, accountable, open, more accessible to all, including people with disabilities. this is the only way to bring european citizens closer to the heart of the decision-making process and to fully integrate their concerns into the work of the european ombudsman and all european institutions. last but not least, i would like to thank the rapporteur for working on this draft report which i prepared, which despite some differences of opinion was adopted unanimously in the committee on petitions, and i hope that tomorrow it will win a large majority in the plenary vote.
mr. president, what is this? your honor! since your protectors came to power in poland, you have only hungary, which you accuse of all evil today. you can't give them reforms that protect their identity. you have launched the same campaign of lies and hatred against poland. you accuse hungary of blocking aid to ukraine, but who, other than brussels, got budapest into this game? who's putting hungarians under the wall? at a time when in poland, under your envoy, the rule of law is systematically violated, when the rule of law is broken in spain, the unfortunate ukraine is a victim of the war with hungary, and putin is shrugging his hands because he has such useful idiots in brussels. double standards is your standard. that's the level of hypocrisy. today we are not talking about inflation, about deepening energy exclusion, about the problems that are most important to europe's food security. today, you're lynching hungary once again.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. firstly, the rule of law, democracy and the economy are being destroyed in hungary and, with it, the social security of many people. instead of finding solutions together with eu partners, viktor orbán is playing a double game. he wants billions of euros on the one hand completely unconditionally and at the same time he is insulting the eu, its institutions and its president. as for the funds now being allocated of 10.2 billion, i look to commissioners reynders, schmit, ferreira, who were the leaders here, to bring about this decision. i shall tell my colleague mr körner that this was not the ursula von der leyen, except for the three social democrats, who are not under suspicion. but i do not understand how the commission could have decided that the independence of the judiciary was restored so that the funds could be released in the context of cohesion. if there is no possibility of a fair trial and the government can reverse court decisions because it simply makes new legislation overnight that reverses any court decision, then such decisions are simply blinking eyes and they help continue orbán, his autocracy and oligarchism. i would also like to know from the commission whether what is reported in the media is actually true that the first act of repowereu and the funds it has provided to it is potentially the first money to go to a chinese electric car manufacturer that the commission has just accused of excessive chinese state subsidies. i ask the commission to clarify this process. i can't stand this.
mr president, it is unacceptable that at the leaders' summit last december our member states still did not agree on the humanitarian situation in gaza; although we also had a number of member states, including malta, which have been calling for an immediate ceasefire for a number of weeks now. what are we waiting for? what do we expect in the face of this human tragedy, in the face of this disproportionate attack by the israeli government on so many palestinian civilians? we have a situation where we have now reached more than 23 000 innocent people who have been killed over the past few weeks and months in the gaza strip. we have a situation where refugee camps have been bombed, hospitals have been bombed. a situation where an entire population is left without basic access to water, electricity and even basic things like food. and so it is important that at council level, we have the courage, our member states have the courage to call for an immediate ceasefire so that no more innocent civilians continue to lose their lives.
- your honor, the president. the future of work requires a wide range of skills, so a strong emphasis should be placed on problem solving, digital literacy and skills development. it is also necessary to say that social attitudes must be changed. since 2010, hungary has been developing a labour-based economy. implementation of the principle of employment-instead-of-aid, the reform of the tax system to support employment and 3, the development of the capacity to attract foreign capital. the results speak for themselves. within 10 years, one million new jobs were created, there are now 4.7 million active jobs in hungary, and the unemployment rate, the unemployment rate, is only 4.2 percent. and most of the capital invested in the european union comes to hungary. the future belongs to these jobs and to those who are prepared to do so.
president, commissioner, i will begin with a quote from a great visionary who has worked to transform the european single market and the european community into a union of people and nations: " other the european dream is not only about economic well-being, but also about social justice and inclusion. 'in his insidious quote, jacques delors stresses that the vision of a united europe extends far beyond mere economic good. social justice, decent wage-labour ensuring livelihoods, equal opportunities, fair mobility and robust social assistance systems are essential elements in the european union's sustainable social market economy. unfortunately, the balance between the social dimension and the market economy has declined sharply over the last two decades. the objective of the social market economy and the single market must be, first and foremost, people, the creation of quality jobs, the improvement of living and working conditions and the achievement of the pillar of social rights. the solution to the problem of lack of 'quality jobs' will require the restoration of a social contract between workers and the european union, ensuring better wages for people, better social protection, better health and safety at work and workers' protection in the new digital economy.
madam president, honourable commissioner, one of our great challenges to the competitiveness of our industries is the shortage of skilled workers. and i'm not just talking about programmers or telecommunications engineers, i'm talking about healthcare workers, plumbers, lab technicians, electricians or welders. even before the pandemic, more than 77 per cent of european businesses had difficulty finding skilled workers. we have to reverse this situation. we must make the education system flexible so that it can adapt quickly to the demands of the market for training. it is not sensible that every new vocational training module has to go through a long bureaucratic process until it is approved by the administration. if there is a demand for skills, which are also highly employable, schools, and even businesses themselves, should be free to provide training today, not tomorrow. if we want a competitive economy we need a dynamic vocational training system. we are building a europe of opportunity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights. in recent years we have seen companies increasingly find it difficult to recruit and retain skilled talent, a difficulty which is only going to widen as we face a generation shift. in italy, for example, according to istat 2023, there were over 2 million vacancies, of which 1,8 million were on an indefinite basis. the lack of competence not only puts us at a high risk compared to other world powers, but also risks losing the competence that each member state has. the european year of skills is certainly a great opportunity because it brings a number of measures into play, but it must not be a year in which a clear problem is brought to light, but rather a year in which a number of long-term measures are implemented to allow supply and demand to meet. only then will we be able to get to the result.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members i think this was a very useful debate, and i’m very glad that the issue of skills, the necessity of skills, is really a first and major preoccupation also of your parliament. thanks to the support of the parliament, we could launch the year of skills. what we have to do now is to continue, even if on 13 april the year of skills comes to an end but the skills issue will not come to an end. so i think this is the beginning, and this is also a way – and also debates like the one we have now – is to really encourage all stakeholders to invest in skills. it is about skilling – it is about good education, because that’s another issue – it is about upskilling, it is about giving people the opportunity to be reskilled if sometimes their job is changing or even disappearing. this is the real issue: we have to take away the fear from people when they get the impression that in some regions, in some sectors, jobs are changing or even disappearing. so this is the way to take away the fear. some mentioned sectors where we have a skills shortage, especially care, and coming back to women – because these are sectors where a majority of women work – we all know why there is this skills shortage in care, because working conditions are not good, because pay is low. that’s why what we have to correct, it is about skilling, it is about developing skills, but it is also about making these essential jobs more attractive. the last point is about youth. we have to specially address the issue of youth who have left school early, without any skills, without any diploma. well, we should not resign, and it is up to us to give them new opportunities the right way by right skilling possibilities and especially – and that’s an important issue in a period where digital is developing so fast – it is about soft skills. unfortunately, many, many young people are lacking soft skills. here we really have to make efforts to bring in these young people, to have a very inclusive labour and skills policy.
the discussion is over. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
in writing. – while the 2023 european year of skills has come to an end, we nevertheless continue standing at a crossroads. we face an urgent skills shortage throughout our union; this is a challenge that has become especially challenging for our smes, with three quarters of european smes stating that they face concrete skills shortages. the right talents are the engine of job creation, the lifeblood of our economy, and the key to continuing our journey to building a social europe that leaves no one behind. skilling is a weapon against brain drain, a tool enticing our best and brightest in different fields. skilling is also all about resilience, ensuring that we are in the most robust position to face the next crisis. i recognised all this early on in my mandate, especially with my work on the digital decade programme. digitalisation will unlock opportunity, but without more immediate emphasis on reskilling and upskilling, we will not be able to make the most out of our citizens’ potential. let’s remember, skilling is not just about employability, it’s about empowerment, about building a society that is inclusive, and forward-looking. let’s invest in our people, in their skills, in their future.
mr president, the role of teachers is one: to inspire, motivate, encourage, educate and shape the future of our children. teachers are essential in our society. it is a fact that no one can deny: that we can have no progress, no future, without quality education, without motivated teachers. despite their importance, there are and are several shortcomings for teachers in their poor working conditions, low wages. there are not enough incentives for them to enter this profession, this vocation. and this is a threat to the sustainability of our education systems with direct effects on our youth, on our students, on our societies, on our economies. priority should therefore be given to jobs of decent quality and working conditions, decent wages, occupational safety and access to social protection, safe and healthy workplaces. and, most importantly, a good work-life balance for teachers. during the pandemic all teachers faced totally different realities, new digital challenges and new work realities. and so they have finally ended up changing the way they work without any training and often without technological tools. and then the european commission must give and provide all the assistance to our member states to ensure decent working conditions, professional training and protection for all teachers in the european union.
author. – mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, there are two things we need to make clear, very clear today. first, parliament is a strong supporter of the participation of new zealand in the union’s programmes. we are strong supporters of other countries like the faroe islands, canada and south korea participating in our programmes. the resolution we will adopt today makes it very clear we have no problem with those countries and their participation in the union’s programmes. however, and this is the second point, parliament will not accept that its democratic prerogatives are disregarded. the treaties are clear: only parliament’s consent can make the union plausibly accept to set up a committee under the international agreement with the power to amend certain parts of the international agreement. i repeat: only if parliament gives consent. the court of justice also made clear that parliament’s consent must be meaningful. the council and the commission have chosen to ignore this constitutional reality. they have insisted on setting up association agreements for the union programmes with a completely new category of third countries, which cut the parliaments out completely. they have asked the parliament to sign a chèque en blanc. therefore, the parliament cannot give meaningful consent to these agreements, and we have communicated this clearly to other institutions for almost two years. it’s an insult of the services, and i addressed specifically the secretary-general that she is refusing to take up interinstitutional dialogue, although parliament’s president had asked for that a year ago. so this resolution is our last attempt to change the course of the council and the commission. the only step left us after this is to start denying consent, which will kill these agreements. we do not want to do this: researchers involved in horizon should not become the victim of this interinstitutional fight, but we protect our democratic prerogatives. we will do that, whatever it takes. so i would have to read you the following question, also in the name of my co-rapporteur, mr lacapelle. as regards international agreements dedicated to the participation of third countries in the union programmes, the commission is asked the following: given the broad powers allocated to the joint committee established under the draft agreement between the eu and new zealand – including its ability to adopt and amend the protocols on associations to union programmes without further parliamentary involvement – how does the commission intend to ensure that parliament retains oversight and power of consent as regards future associations to the union programmes? secondly, can the commission commit to increase transparency of the implementation of the agreements via regular and detailed reporting in order to enable parliament to exercise its oversight rights? will the commission structure future agreements in a way that guarantees the respect of parliament’s prerogatives concerning agreements on any association to a union programme? will the commission launch negotiations on an interinstitutional agreement that completely abides by both the letter and the spirit of the treaties in full respect of the principles of parliamentary scrutiny in the implementation of the association agreements, including as regards the adoption and amendment of protocols? and, i may add, this might be today a conversation of connoisseurs, and we might not have a lot of participation because it’s very specific. believe me, there will be a lot of presence if parliament is going to deny consent to these agreements.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, allow me first to thank the itre and other committees represented by the rapporteurs, dr ehler and mr lacapelle, for their pertinent questions. the commission is committed fully to ensure that the european parliament can exercise its powers under the treaties with regard to the association of third countries to eu programmes. in case the parliament considers that further specific information should be provided during the negotiation and implementation phase of such association agreements in addition to the ample information already provided, the commission is prepared to do so. for the agreements with the so-called category d countries such as faroe islands, new zealand or canada, the parliament is and will be, in case of other agreements to come, invited to give its consent to the framework agreement in accordance with the treaties. the same goes for the protocols on association to horizon europe, which is the most significant programme to which partner countries can be associated, both in terms of depth and substance and of its financial terms. to underline again, we fully recognise the full say of the parliament over the policy on associations and its key principles and modalities, first though codecision on basic acts, and second by giving consent to the framework agreements. the practical and technical details of the association to individual programmes are left for the protocols to be adopted by the joint committee established under the draft agreement between the eu and the associated country. in this way, the commission can act with sufficient expediency to allow for fast conclusion and entry into force of the specific association agreements, thus ensuring also seamless transition to the successor union programme. when envisaging the future protocols and specific implementing provisions, the commission will continue respecting full transparency vis-à-vis the european parliament. we will do that in line with the requirements set in the treaties, and in particular article 218, and the framework agreement for relations between the european parliament and the commission, which we believe provides all the necessary guarantees to ensure that parliament is informed fully and in due time.
in the name of the ppe club. mr president, commissioners, i welcome the recent adoption of a comprehensive agreement on a new free trade agreement between the european union and new zealand that will bring mutual benefits in trade and investment. new zealand is our key partner in the indo-pacific region with which we share strong historical, cultural and economic ties. i am proud to point out that over a hundred thousand descendants of european settlers, especially croats who founded the wine industry, have played a key role in shaping new zealand's economy and society over the years. that's why this agreement is important, as is the agreement with chile, where the diaspora played a pivotal role. and in this agreement we have included it as one bridge builder, actually, between our continents. i am extremely pleased to have been able to negotiate this act on behalf of the european rifle party club because the fact that new zealand shows how important it is for europe to rise above the closure of its major trading partners and open up to its like-minded and those who share the same values. i stress the importance of the existing security cooperation between the european union and new zealand, in particular with regard to operations and missions in the common foreign and defence policy of the european union. likewise, new zealand's support for ukraine, including aid and sanctions against russia, demonstrates our shared commitment to justice and the international order. finally, i would like to confirm my colleague ehler's commitment that transparency is needed in our cooperation, in the horizon programme, and that this will be a milestone that will have a significant impact on the progress of relations with the european union. and i thank the commissioner for her commitment to making this transparency and openness of the commission to parliament visible as soon as possible.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, despite representing only 7% of the world’s population, the eu accounts for 20% of global research expenditure. 32% of high impact publications and 25% of patent applications. thus, cooperation agreements between the eu and third countries with similar values and common priorities, such as the eu and new zealand one, which strengthen ties and advance scientific frontiers are essential. the european parliament should continue to play a key role to foster cross-border partnerships, exchange ideas and create a more resilient and interconnected research landscape, while strengthening and assisting to strengthen the eu’s role as a global leader in r&i. to ensure this, however, we demand that a safeguard is given when it comes to the european parliament’s competence over association agreements with third countries, an aspect fundamentally tied to upholding eu democracy. as representatives entrusted with the interests of our constituents, we bear the responsibility of robust oversight and we demand adequate guarantee of our competence. any erosion of the ep’s scrutiny powers not only undermines effective representation, but also contravenes the principles laid out in our treaty and rules.
