on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, dear colleagues, my political family was deeply touched by the death of jacques delors. on behalf of the renew europe group, i send my condolences to his family. jacques delors was a great european and one of the most important founding fathers of today's european union. like president macron said, he was l'architecte de l'europe unie. jacques delors was a firm believer in a united europe, in a europe where our common future is key to the well-being of us all. he also advocated strongly for personal responsibility, a value close to the hearts of my group. europe is us. we need to continue delors’ legacy. his vision ensured the free movement of people, goods and services within the european union – a huge achievement. building on his legacy means deepening the single market and completing it. the european union has many successes, but the single market remains the biggest so far. mr delors also believed that europe needed a soul and a human face. today, people feel insecure and a loss of control. europe must listen to their concerns and act upon it – on migration, on the economy. we honour its legacy by delivering solutions for european citizens. jacques delors said 'europe is its people'. in this vital election year, may his truly european spirit guide us in the weeks and months to come. we thank you, jack delors. we will make you proud so that you can rest assured your legacy continues. may you rest in peace.
following the appointment of nicola beer to the european investment bank, parliament takes note of the vacancy of her seat from 1 january 2024, in accordance with the rules of procedure. following the appointment of stéphane séjourné to the french government, parliament takes note of the vacancy of his seat from 12 january 2024. the competent authorities of spain have notified me of the election of esther sanz selva to the european parliament, replacing sira rego with effect from 21 december 2023. the competent authorities of germany have notified me of the election of michael kauch to the european parliament, replacing nicola beer with effect from 1 january 2024. the competent authorities of poland have notified me of the election of krzysztof brejza to the european parliament, replacing radosław sikorski with effect from 3 january 2024. i wish to welcome all these new colleagues and recall that you take your seats in parliament and its bodies in full enjoyment of your rights pending the verification of your credentials.
following the appointment of nicola beer to the european investment bank, we will also proceed tomorrow to the election of a new vice-president of the european parliament. i remind you that the deadline for submitting nominations is today at 19.00. the nominations should be handed in to the office of the deputy secretary-general in the open-space area of the plenary services, and include the candidate’s acceptance. the election will take place tomorrow at noon.
i have received a request from the competent authorities in hungary for the parliamentary immunity of anna júlia donáth to be waived. this request is referred to the committee on legal affairs.
the epp, renew europe, greens/efa and the left groups have notified me of decisions relating to changes to appointments within committees and delegations. these decisions will be set out in the minutes of today’s sitting and take effect on the date of this announcement.
the econ and empl committees have decided to enter into interinstitutional negotiations pursuant to rule 71(1) of our rules. the reports, which constitute the mandate for the negotiations, are available on the plenary web page, and their titles will be published in the minutes of the sitting. pursuant to rule 71(2), members or political groups reaching at least the medium threshold may request in writing by tomorrow, 16 january at midnight, that the decisions be put to the vote. if no request for a vote in parliament is made within the deadline, the committee may start the negotiations.
pursuant to rule 47(2) of the rules of procedure, i have declared admissible a proposal for a union act on the need to amend the regulation concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, submitted by jorge buxadé villalba and three other members. this proposal is referred to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, as the committee responsible, and to the committee on agriculture and rural development, as well as to the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, for opinion.
we now come to the order of business. the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 10 january pursuant to rule 157 has been distributed. i’d like to inform you that i have received one request for urgent procedure from the council pursuant to rule 163 on the following legislative file: ‘targets for fixing fishing opportunities’. the vote on this request will be taken tomorrow, and if adopted, the vote will be held on thursday. we now move to changes requested by political groups. with the agreement of the political groups, i wish to put to the house the following proposal for changes to the final draft agenda: the objection pursuant to rule 112(2), (3) and rule 112(4)(c): ‘maximum residue levels for thiacloprid’, is added to the wednesday votes. for monday, today, the epp group has requested that a commission statement on ‘the need for an eu and international response to the houthi attacks in the red sea’ be added as the third point in the afternoon, after the joint debate on markets in financial instruments regulations. i give the floor first to michael gahler to move the request.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, colleagues, we can follow the news of attacks on our merchant ships. that is a huge challenge to our trade relations and to the security in the region. it is – as we see the talk ongoing and the discussion in the council and the commission side to have an eu mission in this area – it is good to have an update from the commission, and that is why we suggest to add this point to the agenda.
i have received two alternative proposals which i will read out. one is from the left group, to add a commission statement on ‘eu and member states’ involvement in the red sea coalition, the us-led attack on yemen and the risk of regional escalation’. the other alternative proposal i have received from the greens group is to add a commission statement on ‘the need for an eu and international response to the houthi attacks in the red sea, and for continued support to the yemeni peace process’. i give the floor now to any member who would like to speak against having such a debate. no? and therefore, mr gahler, do you agree with any of the alternative proposals?
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, on the green proposal, i thought that the continued support for the yemeni peace process goes without saying. but if you insist to say it, i could go along with the green addition, which is added to our proposal. but i cannot agree with the left formulation. it is definitely not a us-led attack on yemen. probably the yemeni government is even in favour, because it goes against these houthi rebels. but i can, as i said, agree to the formulation from the green side.
so we will put the request of the epp group, with the addition of the reference to continued support to the yemeni peace process, to a vote by roll call. (parliament approved the request)therefore the commission statement will be added and the sitting will be extended to 23.00. also for today, the ecr group has requested a commission statement on ‘ensuring that justice is fully upheld for the crimes of political terrorism that remain unpunished, so that the memory of the victims can finally become a moment of collective remembrance’. this would be added before the commission statement on ‘revision of the european labour authority mandate’. i give the floor to vincenzo sofo to move the request on behalf of the ecr group.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since, despite all the emergencies that europe should face, the left has decided to waste time in this house on the commemoration of the massacre at acca larentia, we want to propose a debate that is at least useful. because, you see, the danger to our citizens certainly does not come from those who commemorate every year such effervescent ecidi as that of acca larentia, but also of primavalle, sergio ramelli and fausto and iaio and many other victims on the right and left of the lead years. the real danger is indeed their killers, who for the past 40 years have continued and continue to circulate impunely through our streets, sometimes even under the protection of foreign governments. that is why, if we want the past to stop being a source of division and resentment, we must first commit ourselves to finally giving these victims and their families full justice. so instead of making propaganda about non-existent neo-fascist alarms in europe, we ask to add the statements of the council and the commission on how, and this is the title of the debate we are proposing, to ensure full justice for the crimes still unpunished committed by political terrorism, so that the memory of the victims can finally become a shared memory.
does anybody want to speak against? i don’t see that to be the case and therefore we put the request of the ecr group to a vote by roll call. (parliament rejected the request)for tuesday, the ecr group has requested that council and commission statements on ‘recent attacks on christian villages in nigeria’ be added as the eighth item on the afternoon after the council and commission statements on the state of emergency in ecuador. i give the floor to bert-jan ruissen to move the request.
president. - the next christmas, we were alarmed by reports of horrific attacks by extremists on christian villages in nigeria. two hundred innocent villagers were killed and many hundreds seriously injured. unfortunately, these attacks are not on their own. the region is increasingly experiencing extremist violence. in any case, the commission has not yet decided on the way forward. the situation is too serious for that. we therefore propose that a statement by the commission and the council on this subject be put on the agenda, entitled: recent attacks on christian villages in nigeria this is to confront the question of how we as europe can contribute to the cessation of violence in the region.
i now ask whether any colleague would like to speak against? i understand mr gahler would like to take the floor?
madam president, yes, not to speak against, but looking at our agenda that we have got this week and that we have added already, i’m afraid that we are overloaded. we would agree to have a debate, but if we could have it in february – unfortunately, probably, the attacks will be ongoing, so it will not be a done deal by february. so if the ecr could agree to have it in february, in order not to overload this week’s agenda, then we could agree.
mr ruissen, mr gahler is proposing to postpone it to february. would that be ok, or would you like to have it now?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to thank mr gahler for their support for our proposal, and we can agree to postpone this debate to the next session in february.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, go for the cheapest option. ask any public authority what the european rules for buying goods and services dictate, and they think that’s what they have to do. and we are talking about 250 000 public authorities in the eu who spend around eur 2 trillion per year through public procurement. that’s a two and then 12 zeros. it’s eur 2000 billion. and we could use this money, which is 14 % of the eu gdp in a strategic way. we could try to achieve our social and environmental ambitions through public procurement. but in more than one third of member states, up to 95 % of tenders are awarded solely on the basis of the lowest price. and this is because social award criteria are voluntary, and using them is considered a legal risk by many, many authorities. but we cannot accept that public money is being spent on cheap tenders and just let workers pay the price. cleaners, call center workers, nursing home workers, security guards and other essential workers are employed with precarious working conditions with our public money. and because these are huge contracts, they’re impacting entire sectors. our national and local governments are fueling a race to the bottom on wages and working conditions. but we can set strong social objectives in europe. but then if social dumping is government sponsored, a true social europe is very far from being realised. if the commission is serious about promoting a social market economy, it should value social progress as much as the functioning of the internal market. so let us use all the tools we have in our toolbox to end precarious work and not stick to the voluntary approach for social conditionalities in procurement, which is doing the opposite. i call on the commission to start preparing a revision of the public procurement directive now, and present it early in the next mandate. we need to ensure that there will be no more public contracts granted to companies that have no collective agreements with their workers. and meanwhile, while we change the public procurement directive, maybe we can also stop government sponsoring of the climate catastrophe.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear members, i must say it was a very rich and very constructive and important debate because, indeed, it’s about billions and billions which are at stake. there are issues of corruption, and this is another issue we obviously have to fight and to find the right rules to prevent and to fight and to condemn those who are responsible for corruption. that’s clear. but does this mean that the price is the only indicator? can our economies just function on the basis of price? you know, i was a labour minister and i was confronted several times with major labour work accidents. probably these companies always were the best offering, lowest price. but then about working conditions. well, they did not really respect them. sometimes it went well and sometimes some workers just died or were hurt. and that’s why we cannot just base the spending of public money on one single criteria, which is price, because price is not a guarantee, as it was said for competition, at least not when we say fair competition. because if you’re cheating, if you are not respecting labour rights, if you are not respecting protection of your workers, well, you will have the lowest price. but at what price? for whom? that’s why we have really to think how we create this balance, how we defend better the issue of social criteria. environmental criteria is another one. if you spend money precisely to recycle your stuff, if you spend money to respect the environmental criteria, yes, this has a cost. and then if you have decided to do that, you may be excluded from any tender from any market. and that’s why, in this much more complex world, you just cannot base the spending of billions on one single indicator, which is price, because precisely, you never know who is paying at the end this price. i think that this is a debate which should have some follow up, some consequence where we have to reflect how we integrate these criteria better in our public procurement in a way where, finally, those who decide get more security, more legal security, because sometimes there is the issue, well, if i integrate some other criteria that might be legal cases coming up and so on. so we have to reflect how better to integrate this in order to make sure that social considerations or environmental considerations have or can be fully taken into account. i agree that the issue of people with a disability is an important one. if you employ many people with a disability or some people with a disability, you may be less competitive and your price may be higher. but what you are giving back to society is also a value. and this is a value which has to be recognised absolutely, especially when it is about public money. therefore i think that the commission is committed to looking at whether further specific actions are needed, even of a legislative nature, which means that we have to look at the present texts, we need to combine the objectives of simplification of the public procurement procedures with measures to align public procurement with the strategic objectives and also among the strategic objectives. this includes, absolutely, the social considerations which have an impact on our society, on the prosperity of our society as well as the environmental dimension as we talk about the green transition.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is now closed.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. i would like to remind you that these interventions of one minute will take place from your seats.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. i think it is good that we have met with some colleagues here today to give a one-minute speech, even if the occasion is a very sad one: the passing of a green colleague, which once again made it clear how complicated the situation can be for the employees of a member of parliament here. it just can't be our business to put employees in a situation where a member of parliament for any reason, two days before the end of the month, here by death, but also by my voluntary resignation, gives up his mandate and the employees are then unemployed after two days, no longer have access to the house, no longer have access to their email account. this cannot and must not continue to be the case, my colleagues. the administration must make another proposal. we need reasonable transition periods, even stacked by years of service. three months must be the minimum from my point of view. we must not leave people unemployed from now on. we need planning certainty for the employees. we should all work together to achieve this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 november the european commission announced the reauthorization of glyphosate. the commission took this decision on the basis of an incomplete risk assessment and incomplete information. it did so alone because the council was unable to decide, and it did so without respecting european case law, the blaise judgment, which says that a full assessment of co-formulants of a product such as glyphosate is absolutely necessary. parliament had the opportunity to oppose this and to appeal. he didn't. but this fight continues, and we will not leave europe condemned to another ten years of glyphosate. what parliament has not been able to do, i hope european civil society, ngos and citizens will do, and i will be, with my colleagues from the socialist group, committed to stopping the use of glyphosate in europe as quickly as possible.
mr president, during the pandemic in greece, as in other european countries, there was a large increase in femicides. it is a complex social phenomenon that is constantly being analysed by experts, but there is no doubt that gender-based violence and its most extreme expression, femicide, tend to become part of a new, distorted normal. how can we react? i think we should develop, and of course finance, a european information campaign on the root causes and dimensions of the phenomenon. we must also promote legislative change, legislative harmonisation at european level, based on the good example of the member states of the european union whose criminal code includes a definition of femicide and stricter judicial treatment. we must start by tackling the great challenge step by step at european level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the union aims to reduce the gap between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least favoured regions. that is what is written, black and white, in article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. but in italy the exact opposite is happening, mr president. with the establishment of the national recovery and resilience plan for the south-related interventions; the emptying of the cohesion and development fund which should have supported territorial inequality; the commission has also been able to support the implementation of the european structural funds, which are intended to help the regions of the south. and with the subtraction of ordinary spending to the detriment of the southern territories to once again benefit the rich ones of the north. the italian government is now about to approve a reform that would grant the richest regions differentiated autonomy to freeze this inequality permanently, breaking up a member state and destroying 30 years of european cohesion policy. i say that if the european commission does not intervene to stop this shameful reform, it will mean that it will become an accomplice of the italian government, which is a government that is clearly and deeply racist.
president, for the christian community in plateau state, nigeria, christmas night ended in a nightmare this time. two hundred of them were brutally murdered by muslim extremists. hundreds were seriously injured. and what did we hear from the european commission and the high representative? no conviction, no statement, not even a post on x. - nothing at all. that is of course very unfortunate, chairman. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the basis of the report by the commission. i therefore call on the commission and the high representative to break the silence, to convey our concerns to the nigerian authorities and to urge them to prosecute the perpetrators and to protect the christian villages better. we must not leave the christians in nigeria to their fate.
mr president, dear colleagues, ngos are an essential part of our society. they give voice to those in need. they influence public opinions. they help raise awareness. they fight for democracy, for rule of law. they fight for human rights. they do this inside the european union and they also do this outside the european union. they are an essential part of our society. we talk to them; we listen to them. they manage budgets. they influence decisions and they influence public opinions. this is why it is normal that – like for any other entity, like for any other governmental organisation, like for us as civil servants – there are rules. it is normal that there are rules also for ngos. we are also witnessing that, in the essential role which ngos play in a society, most of them play this role, fulfil their mission in good faith. but we have also seen illegitimate actions from ngos. these are not the rule, they are the exception, but they exist and we cannot deny this and we should not deny this. this is why the report put forward by markus pieper helps us to create rules which should identify any wrongdoings on the side of ngos, and this helps us as decision makers, but it also helps keep the credibility high of those ngos – many of them – which respect the rules. this is why the main call of the report for transparency, particularly for ngos who receive money from the eu budget; we should know who is behind them, who finances them, who influences their decisions. the people of europe have the duty to know this, and it helps also restore the credibility of ngos. this is why my group will support this report. we thank the rapporteur and we thank all colleagues in the house which will support this report.
mr president, an ngo is by definition a non-governmental organisation. it must not be reduced to the role of parrot of a government or administration. it is a separate entity whose objectives may be different from those pursued by the official policy of the country which supports it financially. this reduces, in addition to co-financing its activities, the role of political institutions in effective control of the use of money made available to it by public authorities. the measures proposed in our initiative report are intended to respect the freedom of action of ngos without harassing them. they are not designed to stop the fires of the world of associations, but to ensure that sufficient and indispensable precautions are taken to ensure good management. let me say at the end that ngos also have legitimacy. ngos are legitimated by a cause, while the political world is legitimated by universal suffrage: both are legitimate.
(ecr) president. - the next item is the report (doc. this debate is about non-governmental organisations financed from the eu budget. there's no such thing. organisations that are financially dependent on government subsidies are not non-governmental. no, they form the long arm of that government. the european union is giving hundreds of millions of euros in tax money to organisations in the fields of immigration, climate and gender. almost always left-wing hobbies. the citizens are paying for clubs that promote policies that are contrary to what the citizens want and that are often not transparent at all. governments simulate democratic participation by sitting at the table with so-called ngos paid by those same governments. but these clubs have no democratic mandate. they have nothing to look for at that table. a real social centre comes from the people and therefore does not need any government support at all. my call today is: stop using tax money to circumvent democracy. make the ngo democracy a democracy again.
mr president, humanitarian organisations have warned of a total collapse of the health care system in gaza. the heavy israeli bombardment makes it impossible to meet the basic medical needs of the population. that is why an immediate and permanent ceasefire is urgently needed. the international court of justice should also thoroughly investigate the concerns that israel violates the 1948 genocide convention. the eu should support south africa’s intervention in the international court of justice to make it very clear that israel must comply with any provisional measures that may be coming, as imposed by the court. so a ceasefire is the first step, and i need to emphasise that the eu is a key player in the region, and it must work to re-establish a political dialogue on a permanent solution to the conflict. the two-state solution may just be yet revived.
(ecr) president. - as we speak here, 136 hostages are being held by hamas and other terrorist organizations. for over a hundred days. hamas does not allow the red cross and other organizations to access the hostages to provide medical care. meanwhile, hamas is frustrating humanitarian aid by hijacking aid convoys to privilege its own fighters and leave civilians to their fate. this is unacceptable. the unfounded lawsuit against israel before the international court of justice is in the world's head. what's going to happen? 1. the unconditional release of all hostages and the immediate granting of access to the red cross. the commission shall adopt implementing acts. humanitarian aid through israel and egypt must continue. the commission shall adopt implementing acts. we must not call for a permanent ceasefire, because until hamas is eliminated, there is no peace and no prospect, not even for the civilian population in gaza.
mr president, south africa’s case at the international court of justice teaches us humanity amidst times where we need it the most, and more african countries these days followed, teaching us what humanity is. together with the majority of the world, they concluded that we are witnessing one of the greatest atrocities of this century, and they are right. this war has tormented generations, children’s futures, families and a whole people. this war brings out the worst forms of sexual and gender-based violence, including the hamas attack on 7 october. these war crimes cannot go uninvestigated and unpunished. this war forces women in gaza to give birth under the most inhumane conditions, and has caused the most civilian casualties in such a brief period. the world is looking at us. how many more debates are still needed until we realise that we must demand a ceasefire now? bring an end to this nightmare. think of the children in gaza, as nothing justifies the 10 000 killed children. i ask the commission to maintain the credibility of the european union as human rights champion. if we fail to advocate for a ceasefire, we cannot lecture anyone on human rights. human rights apply to everyone – also for the people of gaza.
on behalf of the ecr group. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in these times of geopolitical tension and uncertainty it is of great importance to start new and strengthen existing strategic partnerships. the european union and india can be of great help in this regard. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the marketing of certain products. in particular, it is also to counteract china's growing influence and aggression in the indo-pacific region. the rapporteur makes a number of important recommendations in all these areas, but her report also highlights the seriousness of the human rights situation in india, which is becoming increasingly worrying in many areas, especially in relation to religious minorities. i think of the anti-conversion laws and the flawed treatment of hindu extremists that sometimes make the lives of christians and other religious minorities pretty difficult. in recent years, attacks and intimidation of religious minorities have increased sharply. ethnic conflicts are also increasingly becoming a religious component, as in manipur. india needs to do more work of tracking down and prosecuting those responsible for violence against religious minorities. our message today is clear: we support more intensive cooperation with india, but only if india takes our concerns about human rights seriously and actually resolves the problems mentioned.
i'm the reporter. president. - the next item is the report (doc. under the motto of 'open world trade' and market forces, chinese investment in european ports has increased dramatically in recent decades. in more than 22 european ports we see this chinese influence. we see it in hamburg, in piraeus and also in the largest port in europe, the port of rotterdam, almost 75 percent of the container terminal capacity is held by companies from china and hong kong. in our european ports, it is not only about the terminals, but also about chinese scanning equipment, chinese elevator cranes, chinese cameras. intelligence has long warned of the growing chinese influence in our ports. they name the risk of espionage, of sabotage, of economic dependency. we know china's agenda. with the new chinese silk road, they are building a position in the world in critical infrastructure and making countries increasingly dependent on it. that dependence is a problem. that's what we must have learned from the russian gas. with its influence in the ports, china has the ability to frustrate our imports and exports and to frustrate our imports of defense materials, critical raw materials and energy. we have a responsibility to leave our world to our children, a responsibility to our safety, our economy, our jobs of the future. but it's going to be hard to protect our way of life in a world dominated by china. in short: the european response is needed. the public interest is currently underprotected. there can only be a european solution. ports compete with each other and right now they do so for chinese investment in return for giving up control of their own port. that's not in the public interest. our european commissioner has repeatedly replied on this subject that the european commission believes that there are sufficient instruments to combat this, but i disagree. the bdi mechanism, the screening of foreign investment, is the responsibility of the member states, they must do it themselves. but the big problem is that european ports compete with each other. that means that if the netherlands were to say to the port of rotterdam on the basis of this mechanism: we no longer allow chinese investment, and chinese investment will go to other countries, to antwerp, to hamburg, if those member states do not follow the same agreements. so that's the problem. we must have european agreements. we need a european port strategy that reduces that foreign influence and at the same time strengthens the competitiveness of those ports. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. public and private. we also need these investments to ensure that the ports can take their place in the energy transition, because they have a lot of potential and opportunities as energy hubs, energy carriers, energy generation, imports of critical raw materials, co2 capture and storage, maintenance stations, offshore energy facilities, as hubs in transport systems supporting the energy transition. in short: a lot of chances. a european port strategy is urgently needed. i would like to thank the colleagues for their good cooperation. tomorrow there will be a large majority for this report and the signal from this european parliament is therefore clear: european commission, restore controls in our european ports. protect the public interest and come up with a european port strategy.
mr president, dear vice-president šefčovič – because ms von der leyen left the room – dear minister lahbib, dear colleagues, needless to remind you that democracy and the rule of law are under attack in different parts of the world. but what is even more terrifying today is that they are also under attack in europe, in our own backyard. the fact that our guardians of the treaties, who are supposed to protect the eu’s financial interests, are now giving in to blackmail is unbelievable. we, in renew europe, strongly condemn the actions of the prime minister of hungary, who decided to block the decision on the funding of the ukraine aid package. this is in full disrespect and violation of eu strategic interests. how long, dear colleagues, can our union and its taxpayers be asked to tolerate this blackmail from within? when does this end? this issue needs to be treated as a matter of urgency for the health and wellbeing of our union. the special european council meeting on 1 february needs to agree on the targeted mff revision, allowing us to respond to urgent challenges and citizens’ needs, while also fulfilling our political and financial commitments to ukraine. ukraine’s security is europe’s security. ukraine’s future is europe’s future! furthermore, the article 7 procedure that this house voted on many years ago must be taken forward. the removal of orbán’s voting rights should not be off the table. lastly, the rule of law conditionality mechanism must be upheld. mr šefčovič, on behalf of the commission, we can no longer give in to mr orbán’s demands. the confidence of this house in the commission depends on what happens next. you may claim that the european commission had to unblock money in december legally. but transparency is the key here. with clarity on the consideration to free funds, we would not have to ask the committee on legal affairs to prepare an action before the court of justice. we need answers! can you imagine that the european elections are around the corner and we are having a debate on viktor orbán’s latest demands? this is deeply regrettable. let us stand with ukraine and mean it. let us agree on a budget worthy of our challenges. let us start to focus on the many achievements of this mandate and the way forward. let us really begin to work on a stronger europe and show our citizens what stronger together really means.
mr president, the december summit was a pathetic failure. the commission has already agreed to the following amendments: the first amendments to the rules of procedure, the second amendment, the second amendment, the second amendment, the second amendment, the second amendment, the third amendment, the third amendment, the third amendment, the third amendment, the third amendment, the third amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the fourth amendment, the the final compromise in the stability pact is far behind the initial proposals for changes tabled by the commission. it brings a new austerity, as it has rules that will prove unrealistic, at a time when inflation, which is largely an inflation of greed and excess profits for the powerful, reduces wages and the purchasing power of workers and pensioners and makes investing difficult at a time when there is a huge investment gap. the problem is that, mr šefčovič, you have left too, that besides the failure and paralysis of the council, which is being abandoned prematurely by its president, mr charles michel, in order to become a member of the european parliament, we have the audacity and the conservatism of the commission. the commission today is centuries away from the reform dynamics of the delors period. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card)
blue-card question. – mr president, actually it’s more a remark and mr papadimoulis also referred to it. we’re having a debate here on the european council. the president of the european commission – as she always does – listens to the first round of speakers and then disappears. i find that utter disrespect to the european parliament and to her treaty duties. she’s a member of the european council and her college is accountable to this house. and i think this house should be a bit more strict in applying the treaties and insist that the president of the european commission is present during the debate from the start to the end. (applause)
answer to a question with a blue card. thank you. i cannot but agree with mrs. in 't veld's observation. the absence of mrs von der leyen, as she usually leaves after the first round of speakers, is an insult to the european parliament and i would like the presidents of all political groups to join their voices with what the honourable member has just said and i would also like, apart from the belgian presidency, mr charles michel, who is in a hurry to become our member of the european parliament, to be here to tell us about the failure of the summit on 15 december.
i would like to thank you, mrs veld, for having read this comment as a question to mr papadimoulis. otherwise, what you said was a worded statement of the rules of procedure, and you could have also reported to the rules of procedure.
a question raised by raising a blue card. - mr. president, what is this? i'm going to speak slovenian, so please take the headphones. i'm asking you what you think of orban's son-in-law's investments. for example, forbes serbia reports: orban's son-in-law's big business: he bought five business parks, 11 business buildings in belgrade. the value of this investment is around eur 275 million. so i ask you what you think, where does the wealth of orban's son-in-law come from, and why invest it elsewhere than in hungary?
mr president, mr commissioner, mrs minister, i have no idea what you are saying. i have the impression that after such a debate, victor orbán will become the main hero of the european union and that his importance will grow. and we have to pay attention not only to who he is and what he does, but what he blocks. i just want to point out that first of all, we're in the final stages of the immigration pact, and at the same time, there's information that there's no money for it, and that's why we need a change in the multi-year financial perspective. at the same time, the council of the european union agreed to negotiate the instrument for ukraine. this instrument for ukraine requires money. so i ask the representatives of the european council to answer the question: if you agree to negotiate this instrument for ukraine, is there any guarantee that there will be money for this instrument? because without money, this instrument will be empty.
question on the procedure of the blue card. mr president, you feel that you are losing the political debate. you, the liberals, the greens, and of course the communists. your understanding of democracy is that if you can't win the debate, you imprison your political opponents. they're getting rid of them from the electoral rolls and taking away the right to vote from the other party. mr president, i should like to ask the commissioner whether he has any idea of the future of the community.
president, there are three things in life that are certain: you die, you pay taxes, the eu always wants more power and money, like a rupee never enough. belgium is the sixth year of the presidency of the european union. the same thing happened to prime minister de croo in the typical euro-reflex. he wants to expand the eu budget even further by raising taxes. how strange are you to think people can miss that money? what if you think people want more eu instead of less? the polls don't lie. now brussels wants to receive more money through new eu-wide co2 taxes. what that means in practice: i am not sure what the commission is doing here. a foolish plan that will accelerate the impoverishment and de-industrialization of our continent even further. we shouldn't be going that way. that little rumpy never enough has already eaten far too much. what is needed: a lower eu budget, lower taxes and fewer rules so that citizens and businesses can get their space back. finally, i would like to comment on the lack of respect for democracy in this parliament. this house wants to take away the right to vote from the democratically elected government in hungary. that kind of practice only happens in dictatorships. please, let's not go that way.
mr president, council, commission, the experts were crystal clear in their assessment: hungary does not meet the standard of judicial independence, but the commission decision to unfreeze the cohesion funds was not based on facts in budapest, it was based on politics in brussels. the commission decision to bow down to orbán's looming vetoes cost the eu so much more than eur 10 billion. it cost us our credibility. it changed the commission's already shaky track record upholding the rule of law. and that means that this performance will be taken into account by the parliament by approving the new commission, and it will mean that we will see you in court. so i urge you – no payments until the milestones are fully fulfilled. and i call upon the council to draw a clear line against a head of state who systematically violates the european treaties and directs his loyalty towards putin rather than the eu. it's time to suspend hungary's voting rights, and it's time to finally protect the eu's vital interests in the rule of law.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. our dependence on it is being used against us. the supply chain is unstable and the working conditions and environmental requirements in those countries are not up to our standards. in short, if we want to continue on the path of clean energy and we want to do so, then that means making difficult choices. that means finding other partners, recycling more and using less, but it is naive to think that we are there. we will have to mine more ourselves on land where that can be done, but also in the deep sea where that can be done. we therefore call for european cooperation in the field of responsible deep sea mining, which will enable us to rapidly expand our research into environmental effects, to be fully committed to technological development and to apply for permits without going into exploration immediately, simply to strengthen our position in the world. the rest of the world is not standing still. we must act strategically.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. political parties that hang election posters from an angry farmer, including haystack, are feeding fear and normalizing violence. no, i say to farmers who turn off road signs in protest, because you must not endanger others. no, i tell farmers who want to storm a ferry that a minister and his family are on, back from vacation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the implementation of the budget. we are being taught that we must choose between nature and the farmer, between nitrogen policy or a liveable income. those are false promises. it is the future of farmers that can be sustainable. farmers must no longer be softened by the large agro-industry whose interests are primarily served in this house. farmers in europe should be able to just keep farming. we need not less, but more farmers, within the limits of our nature and climate, and with perspective. so you're gonna stand up for our farmers and change the system. keep your voice against violence. one more brief comment. i say it all the time now: french timmermans is not here. frans timmermans was a representative of the european commission. the plans come from the european commission. so if there are any complaints, call von der leyen.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in decades this european parliament has succeeded in creating the perception of a union hostile to farmers and to the productive classes. we have not been able to build a project involving european agriculture, making it feel like a key player in the green and uncharged transition, but without the firm support of our farmers and the entire agri-food system, any prospect of climate neutrality becomes unattainable. now, ignoring the protests of the last few months and labeling them as extremist movements would be another mistake. unlike the populist forces, which always offer the solution to return to "how it was before", we have the opportunity to create new and decisive opportunities, from artificial intelligence to sustainable biotechnology, to re-connect with our rural communities. we are therefore not prepared to accept the commission's proposal to amend the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. in the long term, we can only ensure security of supply by protecting our good soil, with climate-friendly and environmentally friendly agriculture. this means more work and more effort for us farmers. this extra labour and extra effort is not being paid in producer prices today. the prices of producers are so low in the european union that 800 to 1 000 farms are permanently shutting down every day. and what's not going to work is that we apply high standards to our own production in europe and then open the doors to imports for products that have no way to meet those standards. and the next step, even worse, is to import duty-free goods through free trade agreements, like the mercosur agreement. this will make life difficult for our farmers, it is already difficult for them today. we have to ensure fair producer prices and we have to ensure that imported products coming into the european union meet the same standards that we european farmers have to meet in our production. this is our responsibility here in the european parliament.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. the reason is different. in the netherlands, nitrogen is taxed higher, in germany, but the reason is deeper and is the same everywhere. in brussels and in our capitals, regents have decided that we live wrong and that everything must change. there is a huge gap between the vast majority and the urban academic ruling class. that class dominates politics, but doesn't appreciate the farmers, while the farmers feed us, every day. the ruling class wants to make our farmers disappear, rule by rule, then make trade deals with the rest of the world. from now on, we're going to import apples from vietnam. in the name of the climate, of course. you, members of the european parliament, should look in the mirror. the mass farmer protests are about you. you're responsible for this. stop forcing people to live differently. stop the farmers from making the work impossible. we need our farmers to work hard. food security is also a matter of national security. no farmers, no fruit, no future.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, we live in a world where we cannot escape digital communication and information, a world where social media is part of our daily lives. and this is why things get complicated: the spread of hate on the internet is a threat that is ever so real and is directly connected to hate speech and hate crime in the physical world. the deliberate dissemination of misinformation and hateful content reaches us all and feeds into very dangerous narratives and so-called ideologies. fellow politicians – especially women, but also women of colour – are afraid to run for a public office because the public scrutiny is becoming unbearable. they are subject to hate speech in a form that is unprecedented in its cruelty, its explicitness and its damaging nature. we have to be more vigilant and more prepared than ever to fight the spreading of this hate-inciting content, to fight and report and acknowledge hate crimes for what they are, and punish them accordingly to show the victims that they are not alone. we have the tools, we have the values, and we have the technology in our union to win the fight against but also with the big tech – because they play an important role – and show them that we, the european union, are the champions of democratic values and human rights.
madam president, dear colleagues, freedom of speech doesn’t mean the freedom to spread hate. but increasingly the lgbtiq+ community, people of colour, migrants and other minorities encounter hate speech, especially online. this hate is fuelled by the far-right groups and amplified by social media algorithms. the purpose of this online hate is clear: they want to silence us and turn minorities into scapegoats. we know that online hate does not stay online: we see a stark rise in violence against the lgbtiq+ community, with recent years being the most violent in ages. this is a danger both to the safety of individuals and to our democracies. europe has to send a clear signal to society and to online platforms: there is no place for hate speech and hate crimes in the eu. so, to the council: act now, add hate speech and hate crimes to the list of eu crimes, make sure everyone can feel safe everywhere in europe and act against the amplification of hate and disinformation by social media’s algorithms.
on behalf of the s&d group. president. - it seems invisible, but it is a disaster. a disaster that only really becomes visible when you walk through the sand with a saw. what's left are countless tiny plastic grains. that may not seem so dangerous, but once microplastics end up in the sea, these grains pose a huge threat to nature, the environment, and the fish industry. with well-meaning clean-ups, we're not getting there. in order to prevent such an ecological disaster, it is important that all parties involved in the chain commit themselves to preventing loss. that we will produce more locally and encourage reuse. and if it goes wrong, the local government must be prepared. that doesn't seem to be the case here. yet we must also ask ourselves: why are we getting so much of this stuff? why do we need so much of this stuff? we need to get our plastic addiction under control. the reduction of the use of microplastics, for example in bottles and bags, is a necessary step in the right direction. let us strive for a world where microplastics are no longer invisible and are especially absent in our oceans and ecosystems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, millions of pearls on galician beaches are an environmental disaster. the regional authorities may say that they are not toxic, but we are talking about non-biodegradable material on a large scale, which remains indefinitely in marine ecosystems, harming, threatening these ecosystems, threatening, therefore, also the fishing and seafaring industry itself, and the galician communities that also live off coastal tourism. of course, we must take immediate action to try to mitigate the environmental and economic impact, because yes, i think it will still be felt when summer comes. but after the immediate response, the european union really needs measures to help prevent accidents of this nature, especially in the requirements to be imposed on fleets under the flag of convenience, which operate under safety and environmental protection standards that are far below those of europeans. i therefore take the commissioner's words as positive and we await further concrete action.
mr. president, all the support to the galician people who, again, suffer an ecological catastrophe in their seas and on their beaches, but also suffer the incompetence of their government, the xunta, which reacts late and badly. in my country, catalonia, unfortunately, we also know the problem of pollution by pellets on the coast, a particularly serious situation on the beach of la pineda, near the tarragona petrochemical field. after having interviewed all the actors in the value chain and having proposed commitments of good practice, and also, it must be said, after a very important role of civil society, the catalan government has opened a file to eight chemical companies, and the prosecutor's office, just two days ago, has also decided to act. the point is that it must be possible to find the source of these leaks and to penalize those responsible. in this respect, the new european legislation, which we welcome, commissioner, should provide more tools both to prevent leaks and, therefore, pollution and to prevent them from going unpunished if they occur.
mr president, millions of tons of plastic are being dumped into the oceans every year, and this pollution threatens marine life and destroys ecosystems. according to a un study, 100 000 marine mammals die each year from ingestion of plastic or from plastic waste. worse still, by 2050, we could count more plastic than fish in the oceans. but it is also a public health problem, since we eat almost 50,000 microplastic particles a year. it is clear that in the long run, the medical consequences for each of us, for our children and for their children, are immense. the commission's proposal on the prevention of plastic pellets losses is a good basis for action, but the european parliament needs to be even more ambitious. it is time to take action to combat this ecological and health disaster which, unfortunately, is repeating itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. if 26 tons of plastic pellets fall into the sea, it's tragic, it's an accident. but most of all, it's irresponsible to the companies that are responsible for that, to the shipping companies, to the companies that ship these pellets in the exact way that there's a chance they'll fall into the sea. and that's exactly the huge problem, that pollution is just too cheap. it's an economic calculation of the companies. it's a risk they're taking. and that's exactly what we need to change. and that's why it's so incredibly important that we put this regulation on the plastic pellets right now and really make sure that at the international level the oceans are being looked at, that the work in these regions is being looked at as well. it is of course pointless to say that we are only looking to ensure that the pellets within europe do not go off board on our inland waters. we need international standards. we owe it to the environmental movement. we owe it to all the people who are scratching their pellets out of the sand right now in their spare time.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all, what is very clear is that today’s debate shows the importance of tackling pollution by plastic pellets as well as the complexity of this issue. there are no easy solutions, but we do need bold and decisive action to protect our oceans and to deliver on the zero pollution target. we are committed to reducing plastic litter at sea by 50% and microplastics released into the environment by 30% by 2030. some may be inclined to look at these targets as sort of nice figures, but when pollution strikes for real, like on the spanish coast, we see that environmental concerns climb to the top of the political agenda. so success will depend on our joint coordinated efforts to support decisive and rapid actions and decisions at all relevant levels. regarding maritime transport, dear colleagues, i heard your request and we are ready to consider its inclusion in eu law. for instance, to forbid the carriage of pellets in bulk and to work together on ensuring good quality packaging and safe storage on board ships. we are also calling on all parties involved to act at international level. we urge all member states to unite their efforts at the international maritime organisation for a swift conclusion of the deliberations on this topic.
the discussion is over. written declarations (article 171 of the regulation)
in writing. on 8 december, the ship toconao, flying the flag of liberia, lost six containers loaded with plastic pellets off the coast of portugal. since then, 26 tonnes of pellets have reached the sea and the spanish coast, especially galicia. each year, about 160,000 tons of pellets and 12 million tons of various types of contaminated plastic enter our seas and oceans, contaminating our ecosystems. in the face of this disaster, it is necessary: first, governments that, unlike the pp led by the government of galicia, do not lie to their citizens and act to mitigate the consequences of the spills; second, to strengthen european legislation to prevent these spills. the s&d group is leading the negotiations to achieve an ambitious new regulation, which includes the obligation to restore the affected ecosystems when they are discharged, extends the scope of the prevention plans and covers all transport modes, including maritime. the epp must decide whether it is on the side of the polluting industry or on the side of those who suffer the consequences of pollution.
the next item on the agenda is the report by mr gabriel mato, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the current situation in the implementation of the common fisheries policy and the prospects for the future (2021/2169(ini)) (a9-0357/2023).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, you know that i appreciate you and you have heard me say many times and i know you do not like it when i say that you have benefited ecology over the economy, environmental protection over the protection of european union fishermen, local governance of the oceans over good governance within the union, where fishermen should be at the heart of local management. they have neglected the need for a level playing field for eu and imported products, imposing restrictions only on eu fishermen and aquaculture producers. many opportunities have been lost: the opportunity to make the european fisheries sector, a leader in sustainability, also a leader in competitiveness against powerful fleets such as those of china, russia or norway; the opportunity to recognise and promote the strategic role of fisheries and aquaculture in the context of the green pact; the opportunity to adapt the european union's ill-conceived and outdated common fisheries policy (cfp) to current challenges and needs, such as ensuring food availability and security and attracting young people to the continuation of this vital profession for society. their categorical opposition to opening the debate for a cfp reform has created unprecedented unrest in the fisheries sector, a sector heavily affected by the crisis and in need of european support more than ever. the current ppc is not well conceived. in 2013, we introduced, perhaps in a hurry, rigid policy objectives. it is true that no one at the time had the answers to the questions about its possible effects on practice. the problem is, today we find that in real life they're impossible to achieve. the result is the distrust of fishermen. the objectives of the current cfp are too focused on environmental protection. while no one disagrees that we need healthy ecosystems for economic prosperity, what the current cfp overlooks is the need to ensure that fish is caught sustainably and not wasted on the altar of environmental protection. the current ppc is outdated. the reality facing the fisheries sector today could not be foreseen in 2012, when the cfp was being designed. at the same time, new challenges and challenges were set, such as decarbonisation, landing obligation or maximum sustainable performance. but the current cfp does not provide the right tools to achieve these objectives. the current cfp does not take into account the specificities and challenges of small-scale fishing, for seafaring vessels and for fraternities, nor for fishermen in the outermost regions, such as my region, the canary islands. however, they play an absolutely vital socioeconomic role in the coastal communities to which they belong. the fisheries and aquaculture sectors and the entire value chain are strategic in the context of the green pact and contribute to food security and also to the cultural, tourist and gastronomic heritage of the coastal and island communities of europe. in addition, its strategic value has been demonstrated especially in the context of brexit during the covid-19 pandemic or the ukraine war. but fishing is also strategic geopolitically. through its long-range fleet, the european union is present worldwide. given all this information, as we continue to implement the current cfp, when necessary, we must reform and adapt it accordingly. let us not be afraid to address this reform or adaptation. finally, i would like to thank the alternate rapporteurs, including the council and the commission, for the frank discussions we have had and for the contributions they have made to me during the long preparation of this report.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, given the cumulative crisis we have been or are still faced with, be it climate change or the loss of natural resources, covid-19 or the energy crisis, it is our collective responsibility to help the eu fisheries and aquaculture sectors to become more resilient so that they can continue to provide citizens with high-quality food. i would like to, first of all, start by thanking the rapporteur, mr mato, and all shadow rapporteurs for the work they have put into this report, and i truly welcome that it acknowledges the importance and the merits of the common fisheries policy and of its main objective to achieve environmental, economic and social sustainability. i agree with you that the compliance and implementation of the landing obligations remain challenging. your report asked for a socio-economic impact analysis, which the commission has already carried out in 2022 and which has shown that the landing obligation so far has not had a big impact, including socio-economically, as unfortunately, it is not consistently complied with. regarding the call to assess alternative ways to minimise unwanted catches, we would first need to know what the upcoming evaluation of the landing obligation bring and, as you know well, the european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund already provides effective support to more selective and less impacting fishing techniques. one point on which the commission cannot agree is that to decarbonise our fishing fleet, to ensure generational renewal or to increase safety on board, we need to necessarily increase the fishing capacity limits. it is crucial that the size of the fleet remains in balance with the available fishing opportunities if we want to ensure sustainable fisheries management. besides, several member states have a non-negligible margin between the active capacity of their fleets and their fishing capacity ceiling, and they can – and should – allocate this margin where needed to facilitate the modernisation of the fleet. i have called on those member states on several occasions to look into this, and i reiterate this call today. supporting the fishing fleet in its energy transition will remain one of our big joint responsibilities for the years to come. to facilitate this transition, the commission has already proposed a number of concrete measures under its energy transition initiative, and we have also issued a guide on funding opportunities to support stakeholders in navigating the different types of funding that can be used. the ‘fishers of the future’ project, which we launched last february, will also look at the generational renewal and safety on board. i fully agree with you that the promotion of low-impact aquaculture practices, such as mussel or oyster farming, needs more support. in line with your report, the strategic guidelines on eu aquaculture recognise that future research and innovation is required, in particular on species-specific welfare parameters. the commission is therefore committed to support such research in the current programming period of eu funds, and will certainly support effective implementation of these strategic guidelines. a number of funding opportunities are available to achieve the energy transition and other objectives under the european green deal, including under horizon europe and repower eu, and for that purpose, we also revised the state aid guidelines and ensured the necessary synergies with the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund. let me also be very clear that the commission is fully committed to ensure equal treatment of women in the fisheries sector and their improved representation. we have launched a specific call for proposals under the european maritime fisheries and aquaculture fund to support projects promoting the role of women in the blue economy, the so-called winblue and win-big. i am grateful to you, mr mato, that in your report, you also addressed climate change, and in that context, more specifically, the changes we see in the oceans’ chemistry and temperature. this is a key challenge, and we need to continue to carefully monitor any future developments and take them into account when taking policy decisions. the european maritime, fisheries and aquaculture fund already helps the fisheries and aquaculture sector to adapt to the consequences of climate change. however, the uptake of the available funds by member states has, unfortunately, been relatively limited until now. so this needs to change and i count on your support in this regard. your report also sets out very concrete ideas regarding regional fisheries management organisations, and i can only reiterate the reassurance i have given to you on previous occasions: that the rights of the european parliament regarding the negotiations within these organisations are – and will always be – fully respected in line with the framework agreement that governs the relations between our two institutions. so, the commission supports the creation of new regional fisheries management organisations. however, this comes with its own set of political challenges. of course, the commission remains fully committed to involve the european parliament in all future policy developments, in line with our treaty obligations and in line with our agreed better regulations principles, and it will continue to conduct evaluations or impact assessments when preparing new initiatives involving all stakeholders, including our fishers.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate my colleague gabriel mato on his excellent report, which was preceded by very extensive consultations. the successive crises stemming from covid-19, the war in ukraine, the impact of brexit, the rise in fuel consumption, the challenges of climate change and the decarbonisation of the fleet, the problem of generational relegation, the need to flex the landing obligation, the controversial concept of fishing capacity... are issues that concern the fisheries sector and deserve an adequate response from the european union. the answer is that, in my view, we must reconsider several of the existing rules and tackle a reform of the common fisheries policy. we need, as the report by gabriel mato calls for, a reform that takes economic and social considerations into account in a balanced way and does not take up a predominantly environmentalist view. the sea industry is a key player in the european economy and should remain so, and is a key player in the production of the highest quality animal protein. we need to design a cfp that guarantees a modern and competitive fishing sector, especially in economic and social terms, and we also need an institutional rethink of fishing in the european commission's organisational charts.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, our oceans and seas are central for human survival. they provide us with the air that we breathe. they function as a massive carbon sink, and many people and communities depend on them for food and for income. they are a treasure that we need to guard closely. but while they seem vast, they’re not indestructible. they, and all the benefits that we get from them, are under threat from pollution, from the climate crisis, and also from overfishing. the common fisheries policy is an attempt to safeguard that common precious resource that we have – fish stocks. it was last reformed in 2013, but it still hasn’t been fully implemented. in cases where it was implemented and where scientific advice was followed, where investments in marine protection were made, stock has recovered and this has benefited fishers. we have to continue on that path. i would say it is time to double the efforts in order to implement the common fisheries policy and to make sure that we safeguard the oceans for future generations. if we want new legislation, then we should look at legislation to double climate protection and to stop the pesticide pollution, for example, that goes into the ocean, because without fish there will be no fishers.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with mr mato's very balanced report on the cfp, we call on the council and the commission to pay more attention to the socioeconomic importance of fisheries and to the important role that fisheries play in our food supply. this is a very necessary step, because the fishing industry has been struggling in recent years. that's why the rudder really needs to turn. unnecessary restrictive measures which advance their objectives, such as the landing obligation and the pulse ban, should be removed. fishermen must have sufficient access to their fishing grounds. the tac and quota system has proved its worth, but the current system of filling-in, with sometimes drastic annual reductions, creates a great deal of uncertainty. i therefore strongly support the rapporteur's plea for a multiannual quota.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, today we are not giving the green light to the action plan for the protection and restoration of marine ecosystems, but a resolution with some fundamental objections to both the approach and the content. the commission is asking member states to close all land-based fisheries nature areas by 2030 without any legal basis but only a non-binding communication. moreover, there is no impact assessment. it is therefore an approach which only raises big questions. as regards the content: the nature of the area is very different. where soil pollution can be harmful in one area, it is not necessary to be harmful in another. this is not sufficiently taken into account in the action plan. we are also going to make ourselves even more dependent on imports. for example, the dutch shrimp fishery, which accounts for 80% of the activities in natura 2000 areas, would be without future. the action plan is therefore insufficiently thought out and disproportionate. the fishermen deserve better.
madam president, council, commission, let me applaud the eu council for doing the right thing: securing the so much needed funding for ukraine. we know that this support is only a small step, given the total needs and the declining support from the us. it is crucial that we keep delivering. but exactly this will remain threatened by orbán. he is utterly disloyal towards nato, the eu and the european values. but while leaders were focusing on convincing orbán, they failed to secure our strategic autonomy – no investments in europe’s green transformation and even cuts in innovation funds. chair, the only long-term answer to this autocrat is to disarm him, take away his voting rights, keep eu funding frozen and cancel the council presidency. no appeasement, no fear, but self-confidence and unity. that is imperative for ukraine, for the security of our union and for the rule of law.
president, plant breeders are doing a fantastic job. they know how to use the potential of creation effectively and create new variants. ranging from wonderful lilies to potato varieties that still produce good crops even under very dry conditions. the problem, however, is the long duration of the breeding process, whereas we need to increase the pace given climate change and disease pressure. new breeding techniques can significantly shorten the process of breeding. and that without introducing alien genes like the way it is in gmos. new breeding techniques are thus a welcome addition to classical breeding. but we have to make sure that the patent law doesn't get a grip on the plant material. it must remain freely available for further breeding. i am pleased that my amendment on this has been adopted and i call on the rapporteur to secure this point in the negotiations.
on behalf of the s&d group. president, if you look at how much co2 we want to reduce between 2020 and 2030 and more importantly what we've already achieved in that period, if you look at the speed between 2020 and 2030, and if you drag that down to 2040 very many numbers you get 90 percent. nothing less and nothing more. so let's not pretend we're giving off a lot more ambition here. colleagues who are screaming murder and fire, they really need to stop. it's a cheap breakfast. this ambition and speed will ensure predictability and stability, as the commissioner points out. and that's what the business world needs. we're on course, and we shouldn't be slowing down. that's how we're going to cut efficiency. that's unnecessary and unwanted. if you do run a marathon and i've been allowed to run one, you should be able to maintain a steady pace. if we look at what's happening in china and the united states right now, we need to scale up. we should be able to hit our greening rate faster. that means we have to make green investments. because there's a gaping hole in there. that should be the subject of discussion today, rather than a fictional additional ambition, while we just keep pace and keep pace.
mr president, commissioner, i miss dedication to end fossil fuels until 2040. i also missed an ambition to end fossil subsidies until 2040. i miss a goal of 100 % renewables until 2040, even though renewables are the cheapest form of energy for our citizens and for industry, and they are that form of energy that makes us independent from fossil autocracies. by the way, it keeps the money of energy production in our own economy. i don’t get the point why you’re so much focusing on carbon capture and storage. your own advisory board has told you that this is the most expensive form of collecting co2. why not pay the farmers well for sequestering co2 into the soil? why not pay them well for changing their methods of production that are climate-friendly and environment-friendly? that would be a low-hanging fruit that is much easier to reach and would also fulfil a lot of other goals, and not serve the industry again with technical solutions behind which they can hide their ongoing fossil extraction. i don’t see that needed ambition in this, but maybe my speech is going to change something here.
president. there is a change in the air. everyone in this parliament knows: in june, people will vote for change. for more money in the wallet, for fort europa and for more sovereignty. the majority for radical climate policy is fleeing. for five years, the christian democrats and the liberals have been pushing for the greens, but after june, that will end. the polls don't lie. people don't want more climate policy, people want more purchasing power. the european commission is therefore still trying to press ahead with a radical climate change crisis by: 90% co2 reduction by 2040. we're already spending billions of dollars to change the weather. it is not the climate, but climate policy that is the problem. europe is getting poorer. we're losing our industry, our earnings, our purchasing power. it's unattainable and priceless. the commission is not thinking, but is accelerating. more climate demands, more poverty. we have elections in june. it's time for the people to pull the emergency brakes. my message? put them out of the way.
mr president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, i heard that the european commission has a fun idea to make sure that young voters vote in the european elections: we should make taylor swift tell them to vote. i love a bit of taylor – absolutely – but here’s another idea for you, bear with me: maybe we could actually listen to young people for once? because for more than ten years, young people have been asking us to end the exploitation of young people in internships and traineeships and we, the european parliament, have stood by their side and repeatedly demanded legislation to ban unpaid internships. then we had a european year of youth. we thought, ‘this is the moment’ – and nothing happened. but next month, the european commission will finally present our plans for better internships. better late than ever! so, commissioner, if you want young people to have some faith in europe, i would propose a ban on unpaid internships.
