madam president! the belgian presidency's programme opens with the words: 'committed to democracy and the rule of law'. therefore, i want to draw your attention to the fact that within a month of the formation of the government in poland there has been an illegal, forced seizure of public media, illegal removal of the national prosecutor, illegal arrest in the presidential palace of former interior ministers, currently mps. i will not mention the other unprecedented actions of ministers that have caused institutional chaos in the country. the law in poland has ceased to function. this is accompanied by the disgusting manipulation of information in the mainstream european media. they say that the force is the restoration of order, and the defenders of the law are the populists and nationalists. unfortunately, in the european union today, it is not what is done that matters, but who is doing it. so i ask you from here: has prime minister donald tusk received a license in brussels to demolish poland?
it's in writing. is the belgian presidency facing current problems? let's look at what's happening in germany. farmers and transport workers express their views directly on the implementation of the climate targets, the green deal, and emissions levels, among others, which are supposed to be achieved in the coming years. are you going to call these mass eu citizens populists, backward black people who don't understand that achieving the goals, let's say the fit for 55 package, is the only chance to save the eu economy, agriculture and the environment? listen to what these people are saying, and notice the scale of the protests. and i think this is just a prelude to what we can expect in the near future. people have taken to the streets of germany, paris, the netherlands, and this is just the beginning. because people lose their jobs. despite the spells of the often disconnected liberal-left majority in this parliament, farmers who know the real hard work are beginning to say what they think about forcing them to achieve so many unrealistic goals. it is also very important that leaders meeting within the european council remind themselves of the rule of law. mainly because in poland after the 13th century ministers and prime ministers decide what is legal and what is not, regardless of what the polish constitution says about it.
first of all, i must say, shut up is an unacceptable term for a colleague versus another colleague in our house. i would like to give a motion for a resolution and i give the floor to mrs rasa juknevičienė.
mr president, almost two years after the russian aggression began, ukraine became a media through which not only our relations with imperial russia are reflected, but also our internal relations are shaped. the best example is the possible mff revisions that are still pending. therefore, it’s high time to start implementing the conclusions from the conference on the future of europe, to improve our structure and make it more efficient. ukrainians are fighting daily to defend their country. their success is of exceptional importance for the european union, too, as the defence of ukraine essentially defines the security and perspective of the entire european project. financial and military aid to ukraine should absolutely be continued, and here we should be honest and transparent about contributions so that concrete actions of all follow their declarations. it is one of the best ways to honour jacques delors and contribute to his vision of europe.
mr president, first of all i have to tell you that i have had enough of these debates here where the commission and the council comes here and says ‘as long as it takes, we are going to support ukraine’, but we don’t really support ukraine on military. the reality, to give only one example, is artillery shells. the russians have 3 million a year – 2 million that they produced themselves and 1 million that they received from north korea. and we are not capable – you say ‘soon’, but when is soon? – even to produce 1 million of these shells in a year. that’s the reality on the ground. the f-16s are not ready, it will take six months! long range missiles – there is a refusal by the german chancellor to give them for the moment. on air defence, patriots – there are not enough delivered. and the reason why? there is one simple reason, and that is there is no european defence community, no government procurement. that’s the real disaster of europe. that is what i hope now – and, president, you’re going to decide on 1 february – now, instead of giving in to orban, make a serious military package for ukraine. it’s a question of democracy.
mr. president, what is this? is our military equipment assistance sufficient? the answer is clear. i think most of my colleagues answered that. it's not. ukraine doesn't have enough equipment to beat russia to defend itself. worse, this aid is coming too late, because the human resources, the mental capacity of ukraine, and unfortunately ours are already running out. the barrier was mainly ideology, not lack of equipment. frankly, fear of russia and the transfer of war to its territory. i just want to remind you that in the first few weeks we were only supplying light weapons to ukraine, and some countries started with helmets. i still have a question for my colleagues: if we are so angry about pro-russian speeches here, why have we never discussed political responsibility for building the position of putin and russia? why is gerhard schröder still a member of the german spd, and angela merkel receives high state honors? maybe we should talk about political responsibility in these first few weeks and the reaction during the russian aggression.
mr. chairman, please! that's $26 billion. this is what denmark alone has contributed to military aid to ukraine. in other words, three times as much as france, italy and spain together. my fellow workers, you're a joke. the eu is a joke. the truth is, if it wasn't for the us military assistance, ukraine would have been out of this war a long, long time ago. the truth is, what you can find out is that it's toasting, it's gossiping, in other words, it's fine gossip, great promises you make in this room, but when it comes to action, you're being tamed. you jump up like a lion and fall down like a lamb. the truth is, if ukraine is to have any chance in this war, it won't be with your help. because if you can't even match small denmark and the six million taxpayers who live there, you'll never match russia. look it in the eye.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do the commission and the council really believe that russia will stop sooner or later, as it continues to send more and more weapons to ukraine? two years since the russian invasion, they've shown the opposite. ukraine is now in a state of dependence on external aid to support its spending and arm its army. the sending of arms to ukraine to support it, legitimately, in its legitimate defence has now led this country into the dead end of a war of attrition, which causes death, destruction and displacement. the use of more weapons does not, unfortunately, facilitate peace processes but only accumulates huge extra profits for the war industry. it is time to change the strategy. we must support the ukrainian people with a peace plan; we must step up diplomatic efforts to de-escalate the military. we must start a negotiated path to a solution to the conflict. peace in ukraine is not a gift to putin, but a fundamental right for ukrainians.
- what are you doing? i'm going to be poor. hungary and the us republicans must take responsibility for drawing financial and military assistance to ukraine. it is urgently needed by ukraine to resist russian aggression and win the war. it's urgently needed. this display of ukrainian society, political will and determination is being used by putin to deplete ukraine's ammunition stockpile and destroy its air defense systems with intensive rocket and drone attacks. putin is showing his determination to continue his aggressive war. so our talk of peace and compromise with russia is not a reality check. we must stop shouting that we will support ukraine as long as it takes. we must make it clear that we will support ukraine until it takes full control of russian imperialism. there is no alternative to peace.
mr. president, what is this? the most serious threat to ukraine fighting russian aggression is the reduction or withdrawal of financial and military assistance from democratic countries. orbán in europe and the republicans in the us congress are putin's allies. this is a critical moment. there is a simple way to help ukraine and deprive our own blackmailers of their power: we must urgently confiscate russia's frozen assets and hand them over to ukraine. last week, the white house backed that claim. let's stop listening to those who say there's no legal basis for this. let's not defend the dirty business of companies that make extraordinary profits from having this wealth. let us do what is reasonable, decent and effective. remember, the defeat of ukraine will be our defeat.
mr president, mr vice-president šefčovič, in the two years since putin's russian war of aggression against ukraine, a clear majority of this european parliament has indicated its determination to support ukraine from a humanitarian point of view - the temporary protection directive - from a financial and also from an arms point of view. but there are critical voices. the european union is a globally relevant european union with a common foreign and security policy and defence policy, which, when we get past this military phase which, in a chronic way, threatens a war of attrition and even exhaustion, will be able to know what the conditions will be for the european union's contribution to an acceptable peace for ukraine. it is the only way out of this situation which causes dismay and even despair in a large part of european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for two years the history and values of the union have called on us europeans to an indispensable moral imperative: to defend the ukrainian people from putin's barbarism. yet as this conflict rages, a threat creeps in our increasingly subtle and subtle cities: the russian propaganda, with italy being the soft stomach of europe. every day the russians storm ukraine with 10,000 artillery shots, a huge disproportion five times greater than the defenders. whoever says kiev has too many weapons is lying shamelessly; without our help, there would be no peace, only surrender. criticism of the eu is far too convenient. if some illustrious former prime minister thinks he has alternative approaches and solutions, he has the duty to propose them officially. i want to say this clearly, without ambiguity: dear giuseppe conte, you have a real plan for peace, get it out! it's not enough hypocritical calls for pacifism. you have to offer yourself as a mediator for the un. i have no such presumption, i will make my humble contribution by continuing to be on the right side of history for as long as it takes. there is no true peace without justice and freedom. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. - thank you, ukrainians!
president-in-office of the council. mr president, honourable members, mr maroš, today's debate has again highlighted the importance of ukraine for europe. it also showed once again how much ukraine is part of the european family. the war of aggression waged by russia is also a threat to our values, to our sovereignty, to our security. it is therefore our duty to continue and increase our support, including, of course, military support for as long as it takes. to say otherwise is unconscious. it is ignoring the crazy expansionist ambitions of vladimir putin who, through his foreign minister's voice, has already announced that he will not stop at ukraine. other countries are in danger. we are in danger. it must be remembered that kiev is only 1,600 kilometres from strasbourg. as i said in my introduction, and i am happy to hear that the majority of this assembly also share this view, we must therefore continue to strive for a just and lasting peace. no one wants peace today more than the ukrainians. we are obviously fully in favour of the ten-point plan, the peace plan presented by president zelensky, which is the only valid proposal so far. and i would like to take this opportunity to remind you of our wartime approach to russia. it is a clear approach, based on unity and one we will sustain. we need to continue to isolate russia internationally. we need to limit its ability to finance its war through sanctions. we need to ensure accountability for the violations of international law and war crimes committed in ukraine. we need to enhance our resilience, particularly our energy security and critical infrastructure, and we need to support our neighbors and partners globally also to address the global consequences of war. and finally, we need to support civil society, human rights defenders and independent media inside and outside russia. as far as deliveries of ammunition to ukraine are concerned, i hear some members expressing concerns, saying that we need to do more and faster, and indeed, you are totally right: we need to do better. it's a work in progress. we take it very seriously. we are making a lot of efforts according to our capacities which, indeed, need to be improved urgently. i would conclude by saying that you can count on the presidency to do its utmost to push this wartime approach further in the council and to work with the member states to ramp up production and deliveries. as foreign minister, i will, of course, push for this within the foreign affairs council as well, and we will do our utmost to achieve these goals.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, madam minister, honourable members our discussion today only proves the importance of our commitment to ukraine. while ukraine endures the hard consequences of russia’s illegal war of aggression, know that the eu can and will provide ukraine with long term commitments and clear, sustained support. ukraine needs us now and we are answering with our military support, through our security commitments, our sanctions regime, our humanitarian and reconstruction efforts, just as much as the opening of the accession negotiations. i am grateful to the honourable members for your unwavering support to ukraine. ukraine is part of europe, and we will stand by our fellow ukrainians now while the war is raging, and once the peace has been achieved. this is our goal and we will do it as long as it takes.
the debate is closed. the meeting will be suspended for a few minutes and the vote will resume at 12.00. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
in writing. ukraine, militarily attacked by russia, is defending not only its freedom but also our european values, freedom and democracy. the same values as ukraine put us in a position where it is also in our interest that ukraine win this war and that the aggressor russia is returned to its borders. i consider it important to increase our armed capacities and provide military, but also financial and humanitarian assistance to ukraine as long as it is needed. word of mouth is not enough. the situation in ukraine shows us that the eu must do much more for the defence industry than it has done before, and must do so more in coordination with the member states. we can only resist the aggressor if we are persistent and united.
it's in writing. aid to ukraine is to stop russian imperialism threatening the whole of europe. this aid is not being blocked by orban or trump. the adequate aid is not coming from europe. aid to ukraine is a hostage to a lack of european decision on russia's future in europe. consequently, europe does not have a widely accepted concept of the conditions for ending the russo-ukrainian war. a certain amount of military assistance is needed to defeat russia and recover the lost regions. other assistance is needed only to defend against further advances by the russian army. the lack of a european vision for russia's future means that the handover of weapons to ukraine is only to deter russia. this is a recipe for the loss of ukraine and further danger to europe. the european position is based on the fact that in some western countries there is still a growing belief that russia is an essential part of the european system, especially economic. this is evident in the process of adopting economic sanctions designed to avoid destroying russia's economy and ties with western countries. this is evident in the arms supplies to ukraine, which is not intended to cause any damage to russian territory. so not budapest, but berlin is blocking adequate military support for ukraine. the war also showed the weakness of the european defence industry, which is unable to turn to war production even in two years. it's time to end the dream of autonomy and green revolutions. it's time for a tough realpolitik.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the next item is the debate on the election of a vice-president of the european parliament to replace nicola beer (2024/2500(rso)). i would like to remind you that, pursuant to rule 20 of parliament’s rules of procedure, the newly-elected vice-president shall take the place of his or her predecessor in the order of precedence. i have received the nomination of mr jan-christoph oetjen, nominated by the renew europe group. mr oetjen has confirmed to me his consent to his nomination. as the number of candidates does not exceed the number of seats to be filled, the candidate shall be elected by acclamation in accordance with rule 15(1), unless members or political group reaching at least the high threshold request a secret ballot. do i take it that there is no request for a secret ballot? no, and therefore i declare mr oetjen elected as vice-president of the european parliament. (applause) congratulations, mr oetjen.
madam president, dear colleagues, i’m making a point of order referring to rule 39. it is astonishing to see – and to be confronted with – the silence of this house, and of the commission by the way, despite the blatant violations of the rule of law in poland. the tusk government has launched a political revenge campaign against its opponents. it’s trampling down the principle of the rule of law of democracy, it’s attacking independent organisations like the media or the courts – and there is not even a question raised in this house about that. there’s not a comment. there is no procedure. there is no article 7 threat, or none of that. this is a textbook example of double standards about the rule of law. we need to respect it, and when your friend breaks the rules you need to raise your voice just as much as when you think somebody else does it.
we will move to the next item.
the reporter. the president! - what? - my colleagues and colleagues! after the elections in poland on october 15, you often ask me: how did you do it? how did you defeat the national populism operating a disgusting anti-european propaganda? how did you convince a system that broke the power triangle? how did you deal with the authorities who used pegasus' cyber weapons not only to fight the democratic opposition and the judges, but also the citizens and activists? there is no one simple answer to these questions, but one thing is certain: a strong, educated, democratic and diverse civil society is the key to democracy's survival. the citizens and women involved in the committee for the defense of democracy, the women's strike, the citizens of the republic of poland and other initiatives in poland were working hard to sweat their heads. freedom in my country survived because of them, because of people who didn't care. and that is what democracy plus is all about, which is citizens, rights, equality and values, european money directly to civil society. it's a good tool, but it's a bit of a work in progress. and that's what this report is about. first, simplified procedures, because often bureaucracy kills democracy. second, a budget of 2.5 billion euros will be doubled because democracy has no price. this way we can prepare our european home for the worst, because the enemy is not sleeping. national selfishness is rising, disinformation from the kremlin is working, and trump's populism is growing. the populists share a common goal three times d: destabilizing, destroying and dismantling the european union. both the afd and the national front and the pis are a deadly threat to the entire schuman project. let us support today, in particular, the society in hungary or slovakia, where pro-russian, xenophobic populists rule. i'm asking you to vote on my report.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i am not going to say anything. in recent years, pseudo-ecological marketing has become a serious problem that could grow in the name of the european union's push for the green deal. what is the practical meaning of the directive to strengthen the consumer's position? first of all, by providing clear and reliable information about products and thus making better choices when buying them. this is the end of the premium price for products that unlawfully use labels or declarations of 'environmental', 'climate neutral' or 'environmental' nature. during the negotiations we insisted on increasing the visibility of warranty information, as more than half of european consumers are unaware that all goods covered are covered by a legal guarantee of at least two years in the european union. now that's gonna change. the souvenir will be on every store and in some cases on the packaging. we also introduce a free and voluntary product life guarantee, which will be a simplified extension of the legal guarantee. i believe our work will put an end to pseudo-ecological marketing once and for all and create a solid legal framework to protect consumers from it in the single market. that's what we're all about.
mr. president, what is this? without a healthy, free and diverse civic space, there is no democracy. that's why we need to support civil society and its organizations. it's our duty. i'm proud as a pole to hear of such a high turnout in the last election. this is the result of the activity of many organizations and societies, which especially in critical, critical situations, shows its strength when well organized. i am proud to have been a negotiator for the citizens, equality, rights and values programme, which at the end of the negotiations achieved twice the value of the initial negotiations. more than two billion euros. i am proud that regranting, a way of financing, also provides the opportunity to support local organizations that operate locally through operators. i am proud to say that we have a new european pillar of value of €700 million. but that's why transparency, knowledge and reporting are needed. and it's a good thing that this report shows you how to do that. but here's a note, a note, a note, a note, because for the first time, i think i totally agree with my colleague richard black, a conservative and european reformer, who said that apart from knowing, you can't make the mistake of throwing a baby in the bath because creating additional barriers that would make it impossible for these very small organizations to function would be a mistake. i'm pointing out that. you need flexibility. knowledge and flexibility at the same time.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. we're under attack. the terrible, anti-human ideology, islamism, has attacked us in the west, in israel and here in europe. and the truth is, it's not an israeli problem. we have seen terrorist attacks on denmark, on belgium, on germany, on sweden - all initiated by hamas and its allies. we have seen that this cannot be isolated into a geopolitical conflict, but instead is islam's struggle against freedom. islamism is a terrible ideology. it hates different-thinking and believing. he hates women. it hates sexual minorities. it is contrary to everything that defines europe. our love for democracy, our love for freedom. so the truth is that we will only be able to get peace with this ideology on the day that the islamists love their own children more than they hate us, and unfortunately that day is not in sight. that's why the fight must continue.
- your honor, the president. our position is clear and unchanged. we strongly condemn the brutal terrorist attack by hamas. israel has the right to self-defense and to eliminate terrorist organizations. the release of all hostages and the international red cross's access to them shall be a priority in all circumstances. the middle east is becoming increasingly alarming, and that's what terrorist organizations are trying to achieve. hamas must stop using civilians as human shields. the situation must be avoided further. in order to avoid a humanitarian crisis, it is of paramount importance that aid reaches the civilian population in need. however, these aid measures must not fall into the hands of terrorist organisations. we support negotiations between the countries of the region to avoid a regional war. we must reinforce our mutual commitment to combating anti-semitism here in europe and in the region to avoid escalation.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. you have to keep in mind what's really going on. a state is attacked, an entire society is attacked by a terrorist act with more than 1,200 dead children, women and men. and then this state will defend itself. he's defending himself with an army that's the most watched army in the world. no army is so closely watched for its actions, when it does something, what military means it uses. so in the full light, in the full attention of the world, israel is defending itself, our partner state, the only democracy in the middle east, the only rule of law in the middle east that has been in contact with the arab world for years through the abraham accords, which withdrew from gaza almost 20 years ago to give the palestinians space. and what was the room used for? for building terror. so what does it take? it takes demilitarization in the west bank, in the gaza strip, to eventually move towards a two-state solution. it needs tribunals, but not against israel, but against those who terrorise, who also terrorise europe. israel is not only defending itself but also defending us against this terrorism. and i want to see that after months and years, when terrorism is repressed a little bit, there is gratitude in europe for confronting this islamist terrorism. and islamism is always distinguishable from islam, as i repeat over and over again.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the words are all said, the numbers are known, the risks are increasing every day. we know how it all started: the terrorist attack perpetrated on october 7 by hamas was intolerable. but we also know what's been going on and it shouldn't be happening. the state of israel has the right to defend itself and prevent future attacks, but in doing so it cannot ignore humanitarian law or jeopardize peace and political stability throughout the region, creating conditions conducive to those who wish to widen the conflict and multiplying direct and indirect suffering far beyond the gaza strip, the west bank and israel. there are three fundamental steps to stop the race to the bottom: first, to create diplomatic conditions for the international community to immediately cease hostilities and for negotiating a permanent ceasefire; secondly, to continue efforts to reach the vulnerable populations with humanitarian aid, with particular attention to the situation of women and children; and finally, to ensure that israelis and palestinians have the right to live in security in their own state. we must be able to help them.
mr president, in 100 days: more than 100 000 victims, including dead, wounded and missing, mostly children and women; dozens of health workers, un staff and journalists killed; completely destroyed residential areas and infrastructure; almost 2 million displaced; the deliberate blockade of access to water, food, electricity, fuel, medicines, the imposition of hunger and disease. this is the terror that unfolds before us all, with israel's brutal aggression against the palestinian people. the european union cannot continue to be complicit in israel's genocidal policy. it is a shame that the last european council did not conclude a word about the suffering of the palestinian people. we must stop the massacre immediately. as millions around the world and the un demand, an immediate and permanent ceasefire and access to humanitarian aid for the people of the gaza strip are required. it is urgent to comply with the un resolutions which determine the creation of the state of palestine on the pre-1967 borders, with its capital in east jerusalem, and the realization of the right of return of palestinian refugees.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have a request. i want you to contribute to the fact that this debate today is part of the answer to the situation. help us to get a strong resolution, because it makes no sense to take one side or the other and only contribute to the spiral of violence that continues to spin and die and suffer. the dying must stop in gaza! we need to help people finally find food, water, medical care. and that's why the weapons must be silent, but at the same time the firing on israel must stop. the hostages must be released. and that's not a but, that's a simultaneous! we must also support what has been proposed by the commission and the council. but i ask the commission, i ask the council to finally debate with us why our influence in the region is so small. we need a political reinforcement of our geostrategic, our foreign policy, especially in the region. so that suffering will cease and we can contribute to a better and better future.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. yes, thank you, mr. president. if this is not genocide, what is it? that's what gillian levy asked in the israeli newspaper, haaretz, yesterday. and then he gave full support to south africa's accusation against israel at the hague court of justice with a precise review of the appalling attacks on gaza. it is also worth remembering that the great hero of the struggle against apartheid, archbishop desmond tutu, was among the foremost critics of israel's mistreatment of the palestinians. but the most dangerous thing right now for the rest of us is that we in the eu are losing credibility in the rest of the world in the fight for the international legal community. it looks dark. some countries are bright, but many remain in the dark - including my own denmark. i hope and pray that we will be back in place. it calls for peace now, the end of the occupation of palestine and a serious effort for the two-state solution we have long promised to both palestine and the israeli peace fleet.
mr president, 24 000 dead - 70% of whom were women and children - more than 60 000 wounded, more than 8000 missing, journalists and humanitarian workers as military targets. since october 8, gaza has been slaughtered. the indiscriminate bombing and blockade of israel on the arrival of humanitarian aid in a territory already devastated by illegal occupation and blockade have caused an unprecedented tragedy. gaza lacks everything from basic health services to water, food, electricity. what's happening in gaza has a name: genocide. it has an author: the government of israel. and it has multiple accomplices: all those who hesitate to enforce something as basic as human rights. we condemn the bombing of gaza and the massacre of the population, un workers, journalists, doctors and artists carried out by the israeli army, in continuous violation of international law. we demand an immediate, permanent and unconditional ceasefire. we call on the member states to join south africa in trying to bring some of the dignity lost in this international silence.
mr. speaker, we are here to talk. i expect the members of the european parliament to no longer oppose an immediate ceasefire. the humanitarian break is not enough to prevent further fatalities. calling for an immediate ceasefire, i also condemn the terrorist activities of hamas, which have caused many deaths and pain to the israeli community. but this pain does not justify the destruction and death caused by the israeli army. it's important to remind me that palestine and its citizens are not hamas, which israel is fighting. israel has the right to defend itself and has the right and means to settle with hamas. but what does it have to do with civilians being victimized? i also call for the release of all hostages. philippe lazzarini, head of unrwa, the un agency for palestine refugees in the middle east, warns of a famine in gaza that is very close and could bring additional casualties.
president. - we are talking today about the report on the ombudsman's annual report. i should like to begin by congratulating the ombudsman, mrs emily o'reilly, on her excellent report. it provides a brief and clear overview of the manner and results in which the ombudsman has operated in 2022. it is results-oriented and based on confidence, as she herself makes clear. i particularly appreciate her efforts to digitise and make the accountability of the expenditure of the repair and resilience facility transparent and accessible. every european must be able to see where eu money is spent with the push of a button. it creates trust and bond. we have made a start, but it will need to be much more detailed and much more complete. i hope and trust that mrs o'reilly will continue to monitor this project and its progress. the number of complaints against parliament is fortunately out of proportion to the enormous number of complaints against the commission. i think it is good that parliament should now concentrate on complaints about itself so that we can learn from our mistakes.
a uachtaráin, firstly, as an irish person, i am very pleased and proud of the work of ombudsman o’reilly. for a number of years now, she’s been doing her job in a very impartial, professional manner with – as has been admitted – limited resources and, of course, as has been pointed out, she has worked very closely with the european parliament, especially the petitions committee. both the petitions committee and the ombudsman are probably one of the only ways we can get recourse for difficulties and highlight malpractices, especially in relation to european institutions, where the ombudsman is concerned. and i think she did that fearlessly. the fact that she annoyed some people during her time in office over the last number of years, that was probably a compliment because it showed that she was objective, she was fearless and she did a very good job. on behalf, i think, of irish meps and the irish public in general, we’re very proud of her and wish her well. go raibh maith agat, emily.
madam president, ms o'reilly, vice-president šefčovič, we support this report because we support the performance of the european ombudsman, which is setting out its 348 reports in the course of 2022 against bad practices in the european administration against delays, against the abuse of silence and ensuring access to documents, transparency, a culture of public service and respect for fundamental rights enshrined in the charter. we are therefore convinced that the institution we call the ombudsman or ombudsperson plays a complementary role to the court of justice in ensuring respect for law in the european union. we therefore call on you to systematize and publish what we might call the 'dumb wisdom' of the european ombudsman in ethical and effective administration in all the institutions of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam ombudsman, thank you for your impressive work. your conclusions on the sms-gate are challenging to us because you conclude that the commission has mismanaged it. for the record, the commission president texted pfizer's ceo to negotiate the purchase of nearly 2 billion doses of covid-19 vaccines. despite the many arrests, including that of my colleague michèle rivasi, we still do not know what was in these exchanges. but, as you point out, citizens of the union should have access to this information. the contract will cost €35 billion and will require european women and men to pay by 2027 for millions of doses, much of which is now depleted in the member states' stocks. you are right, madam ombudsman, this case is a real alarm signal for all european institutions. whatever their function, the elected and the leaders of the union must be accountable to the citizens. mrs von der leyen, i hope you will hear today the requests of parliament, the requests of the citizens and the requests of the ombudsman. and if necessary, we can also send them to you by text.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, madam o’reilly, our ombudsman. first and foremost, i would like to thank all of you for your interventions, but also for what was clearly your overwhelming support for the work of the ombudsman and her team. i would like to underline that for the commission, good administration is not only a concept; we see it as a right enshrined in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. the demands and the needs of eu citizens, businesses and associations for transparent, accessible and efficient eu institutions based on the principles of non-discrimination, impartiality, objectivity and fairness are therefore legitimate, reasonable and valid. in this particular case, we have total agreement with most of the interventions here this evening. that is why the cooperation between the european ombudsman and the eu institution is of key importance. i would also like to thank once again madam o’reilly, her team, our rapporteur and the rapporteurs from the different groups for their work and good cooperation with the commission. i congratulate the ombudsman for the great support of this house. most of the interventions have been focused on the issue of the special report on delays in dealing with access to documents requests. if you would allow me to add just a few pieces of information in this regard: this is the first time since 2012 that the ombudsman issues a special report concerning the commission. we have, of course, taken note of the special report which was submitted to the european parliament in september of last year, and we stand ready to engage in the discussion with the european parliament before the relevant committee on this matter and explain what it does to enhance the handling of the request for public access to documents. the matter, i would like to assure you, is of great importance for the commission and the eu institutions committed to transparency. at this point, the commission wishes to reiterate that the vast majority of the requests for access to documents submitted to the commission are handled in a timely manner. the issue of delays mainly concerned requests from applicants to review the initial replies of the institution, the so-called confirmatory applications. this only represents approximately 4.4% of all requests received by the commission. the commission is already implementing most of the suggestions of the european ombudsman, so i believe that this figure will be further improved. in particular, we have recently decided to allocate more resources to dealing with confirmatory applications. to conclude, i would just like to highlight one more very important factor that, if you are talking about handling of the requests for public access to documents, it’s important to highlight that the commission is able, in general, to process requests for access to documents within the time limits prescribed. in 2021, the average duration in working days for the commission to take the decision on an initial request for public access was 20 days – not 30, but 20 days. of course, if you are talking about the confirmatory requests, here very often what happens is that this is a subsequent request coming from the applicants who are not fully satisfied with the first response. this is an issue where we are talking about 355 requests out of 8420 in 2021, or 418 out of 7410 in 2022. therefore, the conclusion that this is a systemic problem that affects the handling of requests for public access in general is something which we would like to discuss with madam ombudsman, but also in the discussions we will have in the relevant committee. the reason why it takes longer, and this will be my last point, is that the processing of this request is affected by the fact that they are very often particularly complex due to their legal and technical nature. we not only have to look at the legality of the request, but we also have to do thorough research and make sure that we respect the legal requirements resulting from other eu acts, as well as the integration of the fast-evolving case-law of the eu court of justice on this matter. to conclude, i just would like to reiterate that we are ready to work constructively with madam o’reilly and her team, as well as with the honourable members of this parliament, to further improve the process and to make sure that our citizens will get all the necessary information in a transparent and speedy manner.
ombudsman. – madam president, thank you very much, members, for the attention you’ve paid to this report, and thank you again to rapporteur jahr for the great work he’s done in uniting the parliament, which i gather from a couple of contributions, is a rare event, so thank you very much indeed. i’d like to thank executive vice-president šefčovič for his comments on the special report. statistics can go so far. we acknowledge fully that the commission is very good at the initial stage in terms of sticking to deadlines and so on. we’re talking about the appeal stage and very often cases that may be complex, but sometimes they’re not so complex, they’re simply a little bit sensitive for whatever reason. i acknowledge that sometimes cases are complex. you may have to liaise with other member states or with other institutions or individuals in relation to it. they can be legally complex and all of that. but the deadlines are the deadlines, and if the deadlines are insufficient, then perhaps regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 should be changed in order to extend the deadlines, because, as i pointed out, citizens have to respect deadlines. so we get complaints from people who may have applied for a job through epso, who may have applied for a grant. they might be a day late, but it doesn’t matter: they’re not getting that job and they’re not getting that opportunity to apply for that job, and they’re not going to get the opportunity to have that grant. so i think that has to be that has to be recognised. but i’m very glad that the executive vice-president of the commission has said that they will look carefully at the report, and i hope that you do, because, as you pointed out, it’s very rare that we do make a report to parliament. we don’t do it on a whim. we do it when we’ve tried everything else and nothing has worked, and that’s why we seek your support. and so thank you again for the comments that you have made. mep angel, again, i was pleased with what you had to say in relation to the european parliament bureau and the efforts you’re making in relation to increasing transparency. transparency is not an end in itself; transparency is a gateway to accountability, so we very much look forward to seeing the results of that. ms toomb, emphasising the relevance of the special report which i have just alluded to. ms auken, council transparency, we’ve spoken about that, and a lot of the work that we have done has been to make the work of that institution which makes decisions so critically important to every european citizen, especially now when the pace of events can be overwhelming for people – to make that work and more transparent without damaging interests that need to be protected. the issue of the vaccines came up, mep złotowski and mep joron, specifically in relation to the case that we did – text messages. i understand that the ecj is dealing with that issue perhaps this year, so that should illuminate that particular matter further and give answers to questions that people still have. ms ždanoka, you noted indeed the fact that it’s rare that the parliament comes together in relation to any particular issue. mep polčák, the eib environmental information – thank you for alluding to those particular cases. ms maestre, the need to avoid citizen scepticism and that is really critical because we see how citizen scepticism can be weaponised by bad actors to bad ends, and that is really, really important. the anti-corruption directive, ms strugariu, i know you’re working very hard on that, and you mentioned two areas, what you and i call soft corruption, conflicts of interest, revolving doors, very very important in relation to inappropriate influencing of the parliament and the administration more generally. ms metz, yes, the animal cages issue in relation to the eci. we are dealing with that as a complaint that you gave to us, and we will keep you and everybody updated on that. vaccine procurement, mep fragkos, i’ve already alluded to that. thank you, mep saliba, for the positive comments on our work. the recovery and resilience fund was also mentioned. mep kelly, go raibh míle maith agat for your lovely comments on behalf of your colleagues. i really, really appreciate it. you mentioned that we have limited resources, but i refer to our office as a small office with a big mandate, and i put great emphasis on being resilient and using the resources that we have to the best of our ability. i want to thank all of my colleagues who do that so well and make me look good. mep lópez aguilar, thank you very much indeed for for your comments. you mentioned the complementary role of the ecj and ombudsprudence. and i think those, those points were, were very well made. thank you very much indeed. have a lovely evening and a very happy new year to you all.
the report is not yet available. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal. what is the summary? i would say that the ombudsman and the european parliament's petitions committee have become accustomed to each other. i'd rather say we need each other. yeah, we respect each other, too. maybe we even like each other a little bit. so, i'd like to thank the peti secretariat again. i'd like to thank my shadow reporters. and i'm sure we can pass the report on the ombudsman's wife 2022 tomorrow by a large majority in parliament. this is also a sign of respect for your work. thank you all again.
the discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 17 january 2024.
the agenda is for the joint discussion on the implementation of the treaty: the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for a new framework for the implementation of the european union's common agricultural policy.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr vice-president, national parliaments are key players in european democracy and national democracy, and therefore their capacity to act can always be improved, especially at european level. and here we know that in matters of subsidiarity they can exercise greater control over the european policy of their national governments. these were the conclusions of the conference on the future of europe: the ability of national parliaments to monitor, control and guide european policy by their national governments. and that is why a new idea is introduced here in this report on the proper implementation of the activities of national parliaments and their role in the european union, which is to give greater transparency to the council. if we are able to reveal the votes in the council, this will allow each national parliament in its own country to have a much more detailed control of what the position of its government was and whether or not it corresponds to the policy it has undertaken and the commitments it has made to that parliament. the european mandate given to national governments can therefore only be examined by national parliaments if the vote in the council is a public vote. we also know why national parliaments are today institutions of european importance. the council is not here to represent its own countries, that is why governments are already in the council. national parliaments represent political diversity in each state. a minority in one state can be a majority in another state. and therefore what really justifies a european statute of national parliaments is not the representation of the states because this is done in the council it is the representation of the political diversity of each state, which corresponds to the political positions that have a different projection in different states. finally, let me say that we continue to insist that the eight weeks' time limit for the early warning mechanism is not enough. we continue to see, of course, that the principle of subsidiarity taking into account the criteria of the treaties, the case law of the court of justice, the commission's own practice implies greater clarity and that some gaps in their interpretations can be filled. finally, let me say that we do not here support the idea of the green card. national parliaments have no european legislative initiative and cannot have it. they cannot be a third chamber at european union level. on the contrary, they need to strengthen the national scrutiny of their governments' european policies. and so, in this respect, we can at least accept that a certain number of parliaments can make a suggestion to the commission and that if a certain number of parliaments meet, the commission has an obligation to respond. i would like to say, in conclusion, that i have a long, longstanding idea which i have already put forward here about this report or about these reports in the past. we should have a week in which all national parliaments are to debate european matters, with meps from other countries and commissioners present. this would be a way of creating a week where european issues are discussed at national level in all parliaments. stay here one more time with that suggestion. i would like to stress this and thank you for your contribution to this debate.
the rapporteur. mrs president, it is always an honour to speak after hearing mr rangel, but today it is my turn to speak about the other part of the debate: the report on the application of european citizenship. i am very honoured to have the opportunity to speak on european citizenship in this plenary. citizenship has been part of the european project for more than thirty years. it was adopted in jacques delors' time and was approved during the spanish presidency of felipe gonzález. it was a milestone at the time of its creation and a difference for good, in positioning the european union differently and better than other political realities. it is therefore also a milestone today and an intellectual political challenge. because the world has changed, extraordinarily. so it's time to reflect on the present and future of that european citizenship, because we've experienced those transformations. what am i saying? is it added value? round and round, yes. do changes and improvements be needed to keep that value at its maximum? in a geopolitically turbulent world, i think so. specific crises, such as those caused by cross polarization, foreign interference, the normalization of internal hostility and other hybrid threats, put the organisations and institutions normally responsible for responding to them to the test. in these current circumstances, every european citizen has become a key element. the non-europe in a globalized world would be the choice of poverty and chaos. and, ladies and gentlemen, every european citizen is today the most critical infrastructure. i would like to think that strengthening and updating european citizenship is important for this house and for the union. parliament and the commission have worked almost in parallel and with similar deadlines to report. i shall begin by talking about the parliament's report. it also presents problems faced by citizens when they wish to exercise their rights and reflections on the present and future of their common citizenship. i would like to stress the following messages: obstacles to the full exercise of union citizenship remain, particularly in the areas of political rights, freedom of movement and residence, consular protection, which we will discuss later, and equality. we also propose, from parliament, that a statute for citizenship of the union be drawn up which would compile existing rights, scattered and new ones, in line with current legislation, logically, and with future legislation, and that a horizontal non-discrimination clause be included. we propose the creation or updating of certain rights in order to have gender-balanced democratic representation on electoral rolls, a permanent digital interactive platform that encourages citizens' participation in the life of the union, to enjoy recognition of study periods to work in the union. in the digital sphere, we believe it is essential to recognize universal access to the internet, to give a digital identity to each user, to regulate their digital heritage and to clarify the citizen's relationship with artificial intelligence tools. we include other recommendations in the report. for example, creating a european charter of digital rights, adapting school programmes to teach european and union history and increasing citizens' participation and consultation, especially of young people, in decision-making. look, european citizenship is a strength of the union that we can improve and that gives us a shared democratic identity: that given to us by the laws. i would like to remind you that we can take the path of article 25 of the treaties and adopt new provisions which, if we wish, complement and update existing citizenship rights without waiting for the treaty to be reformed. and i would ask you to support the text of the report so that it is approved by a large majority.
executive vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first and foremost, i would like to thank you for this opportunity to discuss this important report with you here today. and i would like to thank our two rapporteurs, madame pagazaurtundúa and mr rangel, and the members of the afco committee for the high quality of these reports. the commission believes in and fosters strong relations with national parliaments, who are important allies to deliver on citizens expectations and constructively shape the union’s future. national parliaments and their members can foster engagement and a feeling among citizens of being represented in eu matters. this is crucial these days, when disinformation, propaganda and other threats to our democracies are on the rise. the commission acknowledges the important contribution that national parliaments can make to creating a european public sphere, as highlighted in the european parliament’s report. the exchange with national parliaments, in building coalitions for the positive change is extremely important, as president von der leyen underlined in her contribution the cosac plenary meeting in prague in 2022. therefore, the commission very much appreciates the active engagement of national parliaments beyond the subsidiarity control. we value the suggestions we receive on our initiatives in the framework of our lively political dialogue. the hundreds of such opinions each year show that national parliaments see these also as an important channel to make their voices heard on substance. the commission encourages national parliaments to engage earlier in the process by providing forward-looking political input, such as on the annual commission work programme and using own-initiative opinions to tell us about future initiatives that they deem necessary. i am sure that our political dialogue with the national parliaments, through the established channels and generally interparliamentary cooperation, still bears great potential for addressing current and future challenges. when it comes to eu citizenship, i would like to underline that the commission is committed to continuing to improve the exercise of eu citizenship rights. indeed, 30 years ago, the introduction of eu citizenship fundamentally changed the relationship between the eu and its citizens. rights and opportunities that come with this status have become part of our lives. when we travel across the eu or outside the eu, or when we take part in the democratic process. in a eurobarometer of december, 87 % of respondents agreed that they feel they are citizens of the european union. at the same time, only half of the respondents indicated that they feel well informed about their rights. it is therefore crucial that all eu citizens, including those with special needs, like citizens with a disability, can exercise their rights effectively. we need to make eu citizenship rights more tangible for our citizens. it is in this light that we presented a citizenship package in december that builds on the european democracy action plan, and which was complemented by the defence of democracy package. the citizenship package includes the 2023 eu citizenship report, which extensively covers the progress made in enhancing and promoting citizenship rights and democratic participation. it also includes a proposal to amend the rules under the consular protection directive to better protect eu citizens abroad, new guidance on the rights to free movement, reflecting evolutions in the case law of the european court of justice, a guide of a good electoral practices for citizens with a disability, so that these can exercise the electoral rights effectively, and the compendium of e-voting and other ict practices to further support member states in promoting the easy exercise of electoral rights. finally, as a follow up to the conference on the future of europe, the commission also presented a guide to eu citizenship intended to make european citizenship more tangible for citizens, in particular for young people and people who recently acquired eu citizenship. this is particularly important in light of the next european parliament elections, where we want to stimulate active citizenship and make sure that all eu citizens can make use of their rights, in particular their electoral rights. it will now be crucial to make best use of all these new tools. and we also look forward to continuing to work in partnership with you, to lay the groundwork for a reflection on further work on eu citizenship during the next commission term of office, also on the basis of this report.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. mr president, i am not going to say anything. - what? since amending the treaties is a very broad subject which requires a very profound analysis and a very profound movement, please allow me to present a contentious position for discussion, because this discussion in this house is very much needed. because unfortunately this discussion is being conducted within the european institutions, but it is not being conducted in the member states, it is not being conducted by the public, it is not being conducted by citizens. you think everything is going in one direction. the conference on the future of europe rejected proposals against further federation, which aimed to build a europe of homelands and free, sovereign nations. is the federation the solution to the problems that plague europe today? will more decisions taken within the institutions without any consultation of the member states solve the situation of, for example, the poor, the declining competitiveness of industry? will the forced introduction of the euro in countries that have not yet adopted a common currency solve the issue of high energy prices? will the joint army finally stop us from sending some of our products to russia, and thus avoid european sanctions? i'm afraid not. federal europe, governed only by narrow institutions, will not solve problems. unfortunately, she's going to multiply them.
mr. president, what is this? your honor! are german farmers, german transport workers, protesting all week, happy with the policies of the european union? are they populists? or are they worried about their future? because what has been proposed in the european union, these changes, which concern, among other things, economic issues, are drawing a very bad future for them and they know it. the chairman of the epl group, mr weber, said that the economy was the most important thing for the group and that's what you'll be focusing on in the next election campaign. but somehow, this is what the german farmers, the german transportation companies, the farmers in the netherlands, the parisians, who are protesting in fear of their future, not only for fear of not having a job, not having a chance to live a decent life, but also for the bad solutions of the migration pact to make their lives unsafe. most of the liberal-leftists feel very well. you have been talking about the bright future of europe all this time. what happens during that time? there are other industries that are falling. people are losing their jobs. in poland, several thousand people who worked in the transport and automotive industries will soon be laid off. these are the results of your decisions that have been made, among other things, in connection with the fit for 55 package, the migration package or other solutions. there's been a lot of talk about the rule of law here, but how do most of you understand the rule of law? yes, if it's what you think it is, it's the rule of law, but if it's what the law is, the constitution of the country, but you don't like it, then there's no rule of law. poland is an example. ask your colleague tuska why he is violating the polish constitution and polish legislation. thankfully, ladies and gentlemen, next year's european parliament elections are going to be different and this majority here will look different.
mr president, in hungary, we have an autocrat government. we have witnessed a downward spiral when it comes to media freedoms, human rights, lgbtqi rights, women’s rights, the independence of the judiciary. hungary is no longer a full democracy, it is an oligarchic regime. in addition, orbán is the best friend of putin in the eu. it is a sad story for all of us, all of us, and most of all for the hungarian citizens, of course. and we all have a responsibility to change this, a responsibility to support civil society, democratic forces, all the ones that work tirelessly to restore democracy in hungary. but we also have the responsibility to act here in this house and in the eu institutions. and i look at the commission: you have the responsibility not to reward orbán financially for dismantling democracy. so no more disbursement of money to orbán’s regime. and the council, i look at the belgian presidency: unless we do something, on 1 july orbán’s regime and his government will take over the eu presidency. it is a disaster for all of us to have him and his government at the reins of our common work. so you have the power, but you also have the duty to act now to suspend the hungarian presidency. and i hope all the colleagues here will vote for the suspension of the hungarian presidency, because if we do not do that, we let his way of doing oligarchic politics spread throughout europe. we can stop it and we will do it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the stalemate we are facing today over financial aid to ukraine and the european budget is born of an original sin: the right of veto granted to a single country. the commission has not yet decided on the basis of unanimity, either in the family or in the condominium, and this is all the more so when it comes to international policy and institutions. orbán's right to vote must be removed by activating article 7, but that is not enough: the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the mediterranean. it is no coincidence that the enemies of integration who feed discontent and vote against our decisions are opposed to this amendment. as a 5-star movement we say yes to financial aid to ukraine, because the war will not end with arms but with solidarity and with firm and decisive diplomatic action by the union. at the next council we do not disappoint the hopes of the citizens for peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not acceptable that a single ruler, mr viktor orbán, should harm the citizens of europe - the 450 million citizens of europe - with his blackmail and his blockade, and blackmail can never be rewarded. the challenges we face imply a real solidarity: concrete action and coordinated and joint action. nationalism is not the answer. the council is proudly not the only solution and we therefore ask that the council decide quickly on the revision of the multiannual financial framework. it is urgent to support ukraine. it is urgent to have financial resources for this purpose and you have 40 billion euros a year on the table in revenue that does not harm, does not burden european citizens. it is urgent that you decide, so that we have resources for migration, for strategic investment, for the strategic autonomy of the european union. and so we hope that in the next council you will decide and that the council will not be the sum of 27 national egotists.
mr president, i’m going to say a few words about a much less sexy topic than before, which is macroeconomic management, which should be, by the way, one of the priorities of the upcoming belgian presidency. we know how necessary it is. poor macroeconomic management weakens the eu in every aspect, including our reaction to the exigencies of geopolitical challenges, be it war in ukraine, be it the energy crisis. we have achieved improvement so far over the currently functioning format based on the sgp. we have a more country-specific approach, which should strengthen country ownership. we have a longer term horizon, 4 to 7 years, more realism. we have simpler rules based on longer term expenditure. this provides for fiscal discipline being much less procyclical. what we don’t have is a permanent community fiscal instrument. with some bitterness, let me say that we need yet another crisis to agree on this. hopefully it is not going to be a crisis of war, of hot war – something we considered out of imagination for decades. but that is not so outlandish anymore these days. we need budgetary space for military effort, especially in view of the looming problems within nato after the upcoming november election in the us.
your honor! these are very important events. this december summit and this extraordinary summit ahead of us, which will take place on 1 february, is a pivotal moment in building european security. helping ukraine is his most important task. without ukraine's victory, we will not be safe in europe. and in this task of building a stronger and safer europe we must be together. security is common, it's one thing. and in this task too we must be very rational and focused on what is the main goal of europe's integration on the basis of the rule of law. without the acceptance of this principle, the community will not exist. the polish government, often summoned here today, will be very consistent in this task. donald tusk has arrived in brussels on the first day of his term in office to confirm that we will be participating in joint actions within the european prosecutor's office. first declaration cooperation with olaf, the law must be the same for all and criminals will be prosecuted. it's a fundamental issue. it doesn't matter if someone's a politician or a professional. just because a politician goes to prison doesn't mean he's a political prisoner. he's just guilty. and the law must be enforced and equal for all. in this task of restoring the rule of law, donald tusk and his government will be consistent, firm and will carry out this task day by day so that poland is part of a democratic and rule of law europe.
it's in writing. the amendment of the rules on financial instruments markets supports the development of the single capital market and is another step towards a full capital markets union. europe needs a level playing field and fair play for exchanges and investors. the creation of a consolidated database will provide investors with a comprehensive picture of market data, and a prohibition on payment for order flows (pfof) will curb this very dangerous practice. the general ban on pfof is good news, because it is a type of bribery that discourages the broker from acting in the best interests of the client. in addition, it increases bid-ask spreads and makes it difficult for new traders to enter the market. to invest safely and responsibly, a full and comprehensive picture of the situation is needed. the possibility of an easy review of the situation of public limited companies is needed. a trusting relationship between the client and the broker is also key. europe if it is to remain competitive it needs not only efficient industrial production but also strong capital markets that will accelerate investment. we need to reduce the fragmentation of these markets, increase their size and attractiveness. the amendment of the rules on markets in financial instruments is an important step in this direction.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i am not going to say anything. - what? your honor! job creation and high quality are integral parts of the eu's europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable economic growth that promotes social inclusion. high-quality workplaces include adequate pay and social protection, high standards of occupational safety and hygiene, and the possibility of working part-time. support for economic growth should be provided, in particular for younger generations and for smes. particular attention should be paid to particularly vulnerable groups, such as those who experience or are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the european social fund (esf+) should continue to be the driving force behind the strengthening of the social dimension of the union, in line with the principles of the european pillar of social rights, as an instrument to support countries and regions in their quest for high levels of employment.
madam president! farmers in europe are protesting against the liberalization of trade with ukraine, the european green deal and the eu's agricultural policy. they consider that this policy leads to a reduction in agricultural activity. poland is implementing the objectives of rural development policy in line with the theme of today's commission statement, namely strengthening food security and resilience to crises, improving quality of life, infrastructure and the environment, entrepreneurship development, farming jobs and an active society. it's the law and justice strategy for agriculture. a farmer-friendly european commission policy on the unlocking of the national reconstruction plan for poland, the swift consideration of poland's requests for market intervention, full convergence of measures for poland, the conclusion of trade agreements favourable to the european union, including with ukraine, and the development of food exports to third countries is needed. the european commission must finally start listening to farmers and respecting their views, especially on the shape of the european union's agricultural policy.
the question asked by raising a blue sheet. i have the great honor to ask you a question as a farmer. it is a rare situation in the european parliament to ask a question to someone who is directly involved in agriculture. i just wanted to ask you and ask you to answer how are european farmers informed about all the objectives of the eu's policies? isn't there something about the farmers that we all respect and should respect that they're not informed about the different aspects of climate policy, the cost of the solutions that are being implemented under that policy? could you say something about that? thank you very much.
the commissioner is the president. when i hear the voices of the ppe, the greens, the renews and the socialists, i'm really amazed. you all raised your hands for the fit for 55 package. every document, every directive, every regulation has had a different impact on agriculture. so the first thing to do is to hit your breasts, go to your farmers and talk about those decisions. in a few weeks we will vote to increase our ambitions to reduce carbon emissions by 90% by 2040. at every environment committee meeting, we hear that agriculture is the biggest contributor to climate change. i guarantee you'll vote for these changes. commissioner, i know the polish government is raising this issue and wants to reduce carbon emissions by 90%. and i also want to ask what the commerce commissioner will do with duty-free trade on the polish-ukrainian border. on january 24, polish farmers announced a protest.
member of the commission. the president! i thank you, members, for the very interesting and necessary debate, for all the arguments raised in this debate. we are listening attentively to these voices in this room and we are listening attentively to the voices of farmers those at the protests that are taking place not just in europe but intensively in several countries. we're hearing voices outside these protests. i'm going to berlin for green week right after today's talks and there will be a chance to talk to the farmers. i recently met a large group of lithuanian farmers who also have a very important problem that needs to be solved. most of the solutions to these problems are within the competence of the national authorities. these protests in germany and earlier in the netherlands in the foreground expose certain problems which have resulted in matters of national competence. but it also does not mean that we do not want to see these problems or that we think the european union should not be interested in them. on the contrary, i think that both national and eu policies are a complex of everything we do for farmers. the first thing, ladies and gentlemen, is the issues of agricultural production and the farmers' perception that we are limiting agricultural production. i think that in the common agricultural policy itself i am looking here at the members of parliament linz, dorfmann or de castro and others who have been working hard on reforming the common agricultural policy and it seems that in this common agricultural policy we have avoided elements that would in some way severely restrict agricultural production. because ecosystems, animal welfare, coal farming, they have some elements that stimulate agricultural production, that help farmers. animal welfare subsidies help farmers in a very important way. so it's not that the common agricultural policy is aimed at restricting farming. we are helping farmers, and this is important in the new common agricultural policy, animal welfare aid has been increased fourfold. as i have said, there are elements beyond the common agricultural policy, but also: the pesticide regulation, the industrial emissions directive or the nature restoration law. i'm not developing this because i'm not directly responsible. in the common agricultural policy we have, i would stress once again, one problem which is constantly being raised and discussed: gaec 8 and 4% of non-productive areas. this can indeed be taken as a condition restricting agricultural production. i want to say that i have presented the commission with the farmers' doubts in the internal debate in the commission. the decision would have to be amended to the strategic plans regulation. there would have to be a political will at the highest level of the council, the european parliament, to implement such a reform. it is not possible to do so by a commission decision. there was, for example, an interesting proposal, which i support, a french proposal to use these 4% to produce protein crops, not cereals. and i think that's really worth considering. i have made my position known on this matter. ukraine and the import issue is a problem and work is underway on this regulation which regulates and opens up union markets for agricultural products from ukraine. this problem is widening to the point that earlier this increased import was in fact accumulated in five border countries almost all of this increased import of eur 6 billion was concentrated there. mr. bogovic was talking about problems in slovenia or croatia, i'm sorry. so this is actually a problem that is affecting a growing number of farmers. the commission also concluded that the union industry's imports of cereals, cereals and oilseeds were not sufficient to support the development of the union industry. so this is actually a large scale, and right now there are three kinds of products that we're seeing a very strong increase in imports. i also present this as part of the commission's work on further developing trade relations with ukraine. this is sugar, which increased its imports from 20,000 tons before the war to 355,000 tons in the 10 months of 2023. poultry imports have increased from 90,000 tonnes to over 200,000 tonnes. and eggs, i don't remember the exact numbers, but it's also an increase in imports from a few to tens of thousands of tons. i'm sure we need some tools to protect our producers' interests. there is another political aspect of our relations with ukraine that i want to draw attention to. this is such a side effect of our opening up to ukraine, namely ukraine being denied its traditional markets. it lost a lot in the chinese market, in india, indonesia, egypt, these were the main export directions. for example, in china, ukrainian exports fell from eur 3,7 billion to eur 1,7 billion. that's the value of that export. it's the same in egypt, on a smaller scale. and russia is entering these markets. russia is developing its agriculture very intensively. recently, she's even stopped publishing her export data. but this is the effect that we should do everything as the european union to help ukraine in transit, for example by charging shipping to seaports, and do everything to make sure that ukraine can export its goods to traditional markets in asia and africa. if it's going to be through european ports, then there's transportation costs. they cost tens of euros from 30 in the port of constanța in romania to 55, according to estimates, for example, in hamburg or rostock, to ship the grain. but i think that's the price to pay to help ukraine in just the way it needs to keep its traditional markets, rather than making its exports increasingly difficult for the eu market. this is the position i have consistently taken in discussions on further trade relations with ukraine. well, ladies and gentlemen, the future of agriculture. there were voices here that these funds are not enough. the budget of the common agricultural policy, although we managed to increase it initially with political decisions, also the parliament, for which i thank you, is only 0.4% of gdp. the crisis reserve 450 million euro for the whole of the european union. we used it in full, we even managed to increase it, to raise some funds, which was 530 million euros. we've all been distributing it. agriculture was able to contribute to public aid over eur 9 billion in response to the crisis caused by russian aggression was used by the member states as public aid. this is a very significant aid and 22 countries have benefited from it. but that's not the target solution, of course. we should be stronger at the eu level. a stronger budget is what farmers want to hear. but the crisis aid instruments must also be significantly stronger. we need something like the third pillar of a common agricultural policy and the means to help farmers in the economic, economic and political crises caused by the war. ukraine is a classic example here. but it is also a climate crisis. i've been to slovenia and greece to see what the farmers' situation is like. the enormous losses and the unfortunately small opportunities for european union assistance. this is the reality we must face as we work on the future of the common agricultural policy and its budget for the years ahead. this will of course be the task of the new commission, the new european parliament, but certainly in this election campaign for the european parliament and also in this strategic dialogue on the future of agriculture there is a place to talk very seriously about this future. food security must be a priority for agriculture. we must ensure economic and legal stability for farmers. we must ensure sustainable development of agriculture and we must stand in solidarity with farmers.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by maite pagazaurtundúa, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on extending the list of eu crimes to hate speech and hate crime (2023/2068(ini)) (a9-0377/2023).
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago the commission presented a proposal to extend the list of crimes committed by the union to incitement to hatred and hate crimes. we are referring specifically, commissioner, to incidents which, because of their particular gravity and crossborder dimension, require a european criminal response. all is not punishable. i'm going ahead so we don't get confused in the plenum. moreover, union case-law is moving slower than the new dynamics of hatred in the digital age. it is also important to take this into account. the current union framework covers only, and to a minimum, hate speech and hate crimes of social motivation on very few grounds. i think it's good to use the classics. aristotle helps us to understand perfectly what we're going to say today: aggressors attack types or classes of people only because they are part of a collective they hate. the underlying reasons for hating them and committing serious crimes are to be different, to see them as inferior, as negative, as intolerable, as if they could not be seen. in recent years, there have been major social changes. social media has served to normalize extreme hostility speeches of hate also in certain user bands and that has repercussions in real life in new crimes, some very serious. the fight against impunity in these times always requires legal rigor, but also political decision. european legislation today covers incitement to hatred and hate crimes on grounds of race, colour, religion and national or ethnic origin. this is what we've got so far. serious offences relating to gender, sexual orientation, age, ideology and disability, among others, are not covered. the inclusion of other criminal categories in the list of euro-crimes is urgent and necessary, but now it is not up to the legal definition of incitement to hate with criminal relevance or the penalties linked to those crimes, nor the consideration of special vulnerability. the purpose of this report is to make a firm political appeal to the council, which is not here to move and expand this list. only the french presidency was active at the time, but poland and hungary expressed their opposition. today the belgian presidency, although it rains and snows intensely in brussels, is not here. it is not an excuse and it is a very bad sign, from the point of view of what respect means to both the commission, which made this request two years ago, and this parliament. not everything is punishable. but it is no less true that inhibitions are being erased and more crime is being generated. the european commission proposed in its communication to address hatred and crime incitement effectively on grounds of sex, sexual orientation, age and disability, among others. the provisional report we have tabled today, which we hope will be adopted tomorrow, is intended to convey the following messages to the council, which is not present, and to the commission, which is, thank you very much, commissioner. not all hate speech is illegal, but everything he does leaves a mark. freedom of expression must be exquisitely protected and limited only when it is fully justified to do so. and the council does agree on other things. we will therefore send the resolution to you tomorrow so that you know what this parliament is saying: we want to see the impunity that exists today brought to an end as soon as possible, because we do not have coherent elements for matters affecting serious crime at a transnational level and that the real victims pay a heavy price for this. the future criminal legislation in this area must respect the principles of necessity and proportionality, as we know, and guarantee freedom of expression, of course. but i will end by stressing that the protection of people from the most serious incitement to hatred and hate crimes must be universal. social dynamics, commissioner, are changing very fast. they are very aggressive, so it is important to act and not leave room for impunity. i hope that the council, even if it is sent, will listen to us at some point.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank you very much. ladies and gentlemen, hate speech and hate crimes pose a serious threat not only to the immediate victims of such acts but to society as a whole. they threaten the values on which the european union is founded: fundamental rights, equality, democracy and the rule of law. in recent weeks we have seen scenes in europe that we hope we will never see again. in particular, we are seeing an alarming increase in anti-semitism, but also some hate speech against muslims. the commission has taken action. on 6 december we adopted a joint communication with the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy entitled 'no place for hate'. this communication outlines a series of measures to strengthen the protection of people and places of worship and to combat the proliferation of hate speech online. i would like to point out a few of them which are particularly relevant to the debate today. first, it is more important than ever to ensure effective application of current eu rules relating to hate speech and hate crime, namely the 2008 framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. one of my personal commitments was to ensure that member states correctly transpose this framework decision into national law. this is important to ensure that all eu citizens across the union have the same rights and can fully exercise them. the commission launched 13 infringement procedures relating to gaps in transposition and, since 20 october 2020, 10 member states have taken action to change their legislation.yet the criminalisation of hate speech across the european union remains fragmented, and the framework decision only covers racist and xenophobic grounds. in december 2021, the commission adopted a proposal for a council decision to include hate speech and hate crime in the list of eu crimes in article 83 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. if the decision is adopted, the commission would be able to propose a common approach to the criminalization of hate speech and hate crime, ensuring consistent protection of all victims of such acts across the european union. while the council had not yet reached the necessary unanimity, the recent resurgence of hate speech and hate crime underlines the imperative for the rapid adoption of this council decision. we welcome the strong support and commitment of the european parliament for this initiative. we particularly welcome the adoption of your report on this file. i would like to thank in particular the libe committee and their rapporteur, maite pagazaurtundúa, for their commitment. our recent joint communication also focuses on the need to respond to the threats of hate speech online. since 2016, we have a code of conduct in place which aims to keep platforms accountable for curbing hate speech on their services. this code has been a success. according to the data we collect in our annual monitoring exercise, content moderation has improved significantly, although a slight slowdown has been noted recently. but the digital landscape has evolved in recent years, particularly after the entry into force of the digital services act in november 2022. the dsa requires all online platforms to have in place notice and action systems to allow for user reports on illegal content, including hate speech. codes of conduct will continue to be an important tool under the dsa, in particular as part of the platforms response to systemic risks. this is why we are moving rapidly towards the adoption of a revised code of conduct. the main objective of the revision is to improve its prevention capability and help anticipate rising threats of hate speech before they go viral. i am confident that the negotiations will be concluded soon and that the new code will also be granted the status of a dsa code of conduct. our december communication also recalls the importance of advancing on tackling anti-semitism by intensifying the implementation of the 2021-2030 eu strategy on combating anti-semitism and fostering jewish life, the eu anti-racism action plan 2020-2025, as well as of the other equality strategies. after the hamas attack on israel on october 7 and the war that ensued, anti-semitic incidents have spiked both online and offline. today, many european jews are living in fear again, and some even feel compelled to hide their identity. at the same time, we have seen some increase in anti-muslim hatred and indeed a general rise in hate speech, notably online. combating racism and discrimination, countering negative stereotypes and ensuring equality in societies through positive action continues to be central. we are stepping up our efforts to fight hate in all its forms by reinforcing action across a variety of policies, including security, digital, education, culture and sport. finally, the joint communication provides that the commission's coordinators on combating anti-semitism, anti-muslim hatred and on combating racism will be upgraded to envoys, with a view to maximising the potential of eu policies to combat hatred. i thank you for your commitment to fight with us against all these forms of hate speech and hate crime, and i will be pleased to hear your remarks and your proposal during this debate.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – madam president, dear commissioner, dear colleagues, hate speech and hate crimes are our shared european problems. it is clear that with the internet and social media hate does not stop at any borders. it becomes widespread. it becomes our european problem. this is why we call again on the council to take the decision to add hate speech and hate crimes to the list of eu crimes. i am disappointed that this seat today is empty. what is more, we need to ensure that sexist and gender-based hate speech will be explicitly defined in the legislation that will follow. today, 52 % of women and girls have experienced online crime, including hate speech and sexual harassment. women and minorities are targeted in the real world and online by individuals and as well by well-organised, far right and anti-gender movements who work to undermine our european values. tolerance and respect for one and another are principles that all member states share with each other and therefore tackling hate crimes should be our shared common responsibility.
on behalf of the epp group. - mr commissioner! madam president! auschwitz didn't fall from the sky. the holocaust didn't start with the gas chambers. the massacres didn't come from the sky, they didn't start with machetes and back-to-head shots. child suicides don't start with bridges, ropes, or sleeping pills. the murder of my husband, the president of gdansk, did not begin with a knife. evil begins with a word. the tragedies of individuals, but also the greatest crimes against humanity, begin with dehumanization, with feeling, with urging to hate. when will we finally understand that words, those words that kill, are not freedom of speech? that there can't be freedom of speech what kills? when will we finally understand that the call to hate is also killing democracy, that the heite is the favorite tool of anti-democrats inside each of our countries, that it is also the tool of those who want to destroy our democracy from the outside? after all, that's why russia built a great european value-searching machine. putin is blowing up our european home with missiles and bombs. why? why? because ukraine is part of this house. but we've long allowed our european home to be torn down by the seeds of hatred. now we have to spend a huge amount of money to defend ourselves against putin's missiles, but we still can't defend ourselves against his troll farms. those words that sow hatred, call for crime, are a crime tool, and it's high time we treated them as a crime tool. i therefore strongly urge the member states to unblock the negotiations in the council on the inclusion of hate crimes and hate speech in the list of crimes regulated by the treaties on the functioning of the european union as soon as possible.
the commissioner is the president. according to this hate speech project, you want to imprison your enemies. - what's the matter? we read, for example, about criticism of illegal immigration or lgbtq communities. so, as i understand it, if a citizen of the european union now reads the police data that shows that migrants are committing more crimes, he's going to jail. or if another citizen, in accordance with his right to freedom of religion, common sense and scientific knowledge of biology, declares that there are only two sexes, and not, as you think, 256, what? - you're going to jail too? you are the heirs to communist ideology and like them you use beautiful slogans, but you only dream of destroying freedom. herbert marcuse, your favorite ideologist, wrote directly in "repressive tolerance" about what you're hiding in this document. and let's quote it now: so, liberating tolerance would mean intolerance of the right and tolerance of the left. so you want to intimidate everyone, you want to terrorise everyone, not for freedom, but because you hate freedom and you want to introduce censorship. and they'll never agree to it. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising a blue sheet)
the question asked by raising a blue sheet. - mr. jake! - what? can you look me in the eye? can you look my daughters in the eye? how much hate and how much evil have you poured on my husband? the knife was just a tool. word was coming from your television and the public media. is there anything you can say?
answer to the question asked by raising a blue sheet. mrs. posel, i am very sorry for what happened and i am very sorry for the situation your family has found itself in. but please remember that this television you're talking about has now turned the other way, and other television stations, the vast majority of our country, are sowing hatred for us. and it just so happens that one of your supporters, for example, tried to murder my family. fortunately, he was stopped by the police and put in jail. and now, the question is, do you think that if someone is hating you, it's wrong, but you can already hate us? i don't agree with that. i'd rather hate wasn't our common language at all. that's why it's so important that we protect freedom of speech.
madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, hate speech and hate crimes are an attack on human dignity. they cannot take place in a 21st century europe. we are witnessing today, however, the rise of these speeches, fueled by extremist and populist movements and the multiplier effect of social networks. there can be no gray areas, no hesitation when we talk about human rights. gender discrimination is killing. homophobia is killing. hate-based intolerance kills. to effectively combat hate speech and hate crimes, it is essential to tackle the root of the problem, particularly stereotypes, intolerance and the new mechanisms for its spread. it is therefore imperative that the legal instruments of criminal force be put in place to criminalize these acts and that decisions be taken. if the council cannot reach a unanimous decision, it must act by qualified majority because hate crimes are incompatible with the values of the union, human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
madam president! do you know how much heat costs? 500 pln, or 115 euros for a single scale. that's how many pseudo-commentators they took on pis tv. an anti-european, pseudo-patriotic whore for money. freedom of speech is not a right to privacy. independent media is not a right to feel. we in poland did it very painfully. pis has turned public media into a governmental pipe for spreading hatred and dividing society. we all remember how on public television they were making a joke about paul adamowicz, how they were making material about krzysztof brezhnev straight from pegasus. you, the pis meps, are also responsible for this because you are part of this system. minister sienkiewicz deserves respect for cleaning up this stables of augie and for ending hate speech in the public media. i hope that soon the list of euro crimes will be expanded to include heating and deliberate disinformation. and i repeat, freedom of speech is not a right to a ceasefire.
madam president! we're talking about hate speech today, but we have to define it, it can't go without a definition. because something that is heat deserves the highest punishment. i agree with that. i'm against heat. but it can't be that we're actually gonna use hate speech to punish opinions. and here's the fundamental difference, that here the will and the reinforcement that comes with it is to be punishing for opinions, eliminating people who have different opinions, even from political activity or from social life in general. and that's why, for example, opposing mass illegal immigration is also hate speech? that's how you and i were treated. for giving a warning sign of the dangers of illegal migration, i repeat, illegal, we were taught that we cannot do that. we're supposed to be on trial, we're supposed to be punished, we're supposed to be eliminated from public life. is this what punishment for alleged hate speech is supposed to look like? - no, i'm not. i'm for free speech, but i'm against the height.
madam president, commissioner, these reports have been really nothing more than an instrument to push a left-wing ideology for years – no surprise about that this year either. but ms barley has crossed the line here, by proposing to silence political opponents – and no, ms barley, having a different opinion is no blackmail. no, no, no – it is having a different opinion. you just have to live with that in a democracy. but it seems there is a virus in the western world. political opponents are being banned, threatened by secret service surveillance, like the afd in your country, or prosecuted under fake charges. the other elephant in the room, as it were, is the lack of mention of the lawlessness in poland. donald tusk has started a political campaign of revenge, and he has broken the law, and he’s broken the constitution. and there’s nothing about that here. now, no matter what you think about him or his predecessor, it is not a question of political sympathy. these actions objectively cannot happen in a democratic state, and that should be in this report. it is not there. if you say the rule of law is so important, why is it not there? what is this cynical silence all about? it is time to stop harassing certain member states for biased ideological reasons, while ignoring serious breaches of the rule of law elsewhere. it is time to stop abusing the concept of fundamental rights.
madam president, thank you very much for your word. it's very difficult to talk for a minute about such a crucial message. there are a number of topics that i personally accept. then there are things in the report that i personally might not consider so important. but let me just say three things that i consider extremely important. first, protecting freedom of speech, protecting journalists. a very important subject, and it's good that it's mentioned in the report. another issue that i consider important is the rise of anti-semitic sentiment in europe. it is a major problem that we have unfortunately faced in many countries lately, and we need to underestimate it and fight it more. it is alarming that in recent years, in some european union countries, representatives of the jewish minority have left for israel or other countries out of concern for their lives, their lifestyle, values and health. and the last issue is the rise of homophobic sentiment, which unfortunately we also see in some states, see law in hungary, etc. this is also a problem that the european union must fight.
madam president, what is the use of a report on fundamental rights? the question is legitimate. we would never have thought that the charter of fundamental rights, one of the foundations of the european union, would be threatened. and yet it is increasingly being questioned and fundamental rights, especially those most vulnerable, are being violated. and this is even true in member states that pride themselves on being the world champion of almost all human rights. at the end of this mandate, this overview of the situation of fundamental rights in the european union is useful not only to inform european citizens but also to point out how and how they operate in certain member states. this must give us a clear vision of respect for the charter of fundamental rights, not only to act on what is not working, to warn us of what is worrying us, but also to propose, and i stress this fundamental step, recommendations for a more just union respecting the rights of all. at the dawn of the 2024 election campaign, this reminder is not frankly a luxury.
madam president, commissioner, the european union is based on respect for fundamental rights and therefore respect for the rule of law, freedoms and the independence of the judiciary. the report highlights the deterioration of these rights. let us defend ourselves against the illiberal leaders who threaten the european union. the repeated attacks by the hungarian government must be punished. renew europe calls for the freezing of european funds as long as hungary does not respect european values. in this respect, the european commission's unlocking of european funds is a real setback against the leaders and the blackmail of a government that is in a state of democracy. mr commissioner, will the commission make the voice of indignant citizens heard by conditioning access to european funds on respect for values? in a world of conflict and increasingly authoritarian tendencies, the european union is the standard of democracy. let's preserve it, cherish it. the freedoms of 450 million citizens are at stake.
madam president! this report actually sounds like we've partially rewritten it from previous years. it is very secondary and very incomplete in my opinion, because it does not mention even those who are silent victims of this very, supposedly, policy of tolerating life without any principles. it's not about christians, it's about catholics. today, a wave of attacks on the faithful and the church is taking place throughout europe. temples, places of worship are being devastated, priests are being murdered in the next attack, the leftist media, which praises the attacks on churches and promotes people who mock the saints for the christian symbols, has created an atmosphere of tolerance for aggression and that's not what we have here. in 2023 alone, 792 attacks on religious persons or religious objects occurred in europe. year-on-year, that's an increase of over 44%. 38 physical attacks on priests and religious, 105 arson, 516 attacks on vandalism, are just a fraction of that statistic. why wasn't that in the report? why are you guys silent?
the european parliament, as every year, examines the human rights situation in the member states of the european union. or rather, the european parliament approves all human rights violations committed by its political friends and considers, on the other hand, that anything from its opponents is itself a violation of human rights. for example, in poland, the progressive donald tusk has banned the broadcasting of mainstream television. the european union has not said anything, but it has been rousing the previous conservative government accusing it of censoring the media. the same applies to arbitrary arrests of members of parliament or purges in the judiciary. forgive your friends, condemn your opponents. the european union is silent about the violence and crimes committed in the cause of progressive globalism, but it criminalizes the legal actions and political thoughts of its enemies. because for her, liberal globalism and conservative patriotism are not choices. for her, one is good and the other is bad. this text proves this by taking up all the progressive theses from the outset: systemic racism, gender oppression, criticism of the police. you'd think you were reading the anti-extremists. well, we will be able to remind you that politics is the art of choices and solutions and that a choice other than yours is possible. it's june 9th.
madam president! the rule of law is one of the essential conditions for maintaining and further strengthening the european union. this is well illustrated by the example of my country. the far-right and populist group that previously ruled poland attempted to attack the polish constitutional system and to establish authoritarian rule. the principles of a democratic state, i.e. the right to express their opinions, including in political and worldview matters, including violations of women's dignity, were eliminated from social life. those who opposed such actions were harassed or intimidated and were also monitored by the pegasus system. false threats were created to create fear in parts of society. may the times that have passed in poland be a warning to others. i know that the new polish government, in restoring the rule of law, will not be guided by revenge, but will only be guided by the protection of the most important value for the whole european union, which is human dignity.
mr president, as socialists we have been, are and always will be at the forefront of ensuring that the fundamental rights of all european citizens are safeguarded. last year i was the negotiator of this file and i am pleased to see my colleague, katarina barley, who presented this report this year, and very interestingly that chapter in the report that talks about social, economic and even the environment. in one of my first speeches in this parliament i was convinced that the environment and a healthy environment should be a fundamental right for all citizens, not only europeans but also countries, in malta. and that's something i believe in. we need to see that we have a healthy environment in our constitution, in our country, but also that the environment is considered a fundamental human right at european level. and we already did that at the united nations last year and now we look forward to us as europe being at the forefront of taking fundamental human rights to the next level.
madam president, we are talking about fundamental rights in the european union, but we have citizens whose rights are being violated right now. in romania, a civil activist was violently taken from her home by police for a facebook post. in romania, protesters who want to legitimately express their problems and seek legitimate and peaceful solutions from the authorities are systematically prevented from doing so. in romania, the authorities ordered the police to harass them and stop them from their european right to protest. and i'm not saying that. i tell the police unions, who have recognized the political pressure being put on them for just that, to satisfy the interests of politicians. so, dear colleagues, we're talking about fundamental rights here. we have to do more than talk. we really have to do something. we must be very attentive to what is happening in our countries and take advantage of the commissioner's presence here to inform them of what is happening, both in romania and in other countries and ask for intervention to be done to help citizens. the right to protest is a fundamental right, commissioner.
madam president, i fully agree with the rapporteur that i am citing that, in recent years there was some decline of the respect of fundamental rights across the european union, and that the consensus on the common european values is at risk of crumbling. however, the report itself, to my regret, does not contribute to improve the situation, although it should have. it uses selectivity and double standards, which in my opinion is the main reason of that percent decline. i’ll mention just one example. the report speaks about following persistent forms of hatred and discrimination: anti-semitism, anti-gypsyism, islamophobia and racism. but how long will it take to recognise the embeddedness in the eu of such a phenomena as ‘russophobia’ as well as less voluminous but gaining ground form of hatred like ‘hungarian-phobia’? one of the main chapters of the report is devoted to the rule of law. but, commissioner, your methodology when preparing this report needs to be changed. your recommendations are too general to fulfil.
mr president, human rights and fundamental rights need an advocate now, perhaps more than many decades ago, even within the european union, as can be seen from some of the speeches we have heard here. human rights and fundamental rights are the cornerstone of the eu's constitutional treaties and of all its activities, the hard lesson we learned after world war ii. they are a key, if not the most fundamental principle, of the rule of law and in order to implement them we need a stronger competence and a stronger authority, both for the commission and for an expanded understanding of human and fundamental rights, women's rights and social and economic rights. i hope we can move in this direction together. we must behave civilizedly if we want civilization, and it includes human and fundamental rights.
the commissioner is the president. the restoration of the rule of law is underway in poland. first, the government of prime minister tusk has applied to join the european public prosecutor's office. effective protection of the union's financial interests means better protection of polish taxpayers' money. second, the depoliticization of justice: the ziobras protected in the courts are suspended. third, there are important changes in the prosecutor's office: former pis candidate dariusz barski is no longer a national prosecutor. fourth, a draft separating the minister of justice from the prosecutor general will be presented by the end of the week. poland is back in europe, so courage, europe! this is the moment when orbán, putin's ally, is alone in the union. ukraine needs our help. it's time to move on and block the orban. article seven. as soon as possible.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, indeed, we’ve been discussing the rule of law in greece several times. each time, you dismiss all the criticism and accuse those who are asking questions of being partisan and motivated by elections and campaigns. i would like to ask you: can you imagine that politicians would actually do something because they believe in something, because they stand for something? is that something that you can imagine?
madam president! the invasion of pegasus and the predator is a nightmare of the rule of law that has not missed the oldest democracy, greece. there, too, the authorities have shamelessly penetrated the lives of their citizens. the commission of inquiry in the greek parliament has completed its work after only one month of work with no substantive findings. this is a scandal. and we need to be aware of how dangerous a weapon the pegasus and similar tools are. especially in the face of the rise of artificial intelligence, the production of deepfake and the wave of disinformation from the kremlin. the citizens of europe need education in this field. the starting point should be the recommendations of our pega committee. first, a strategy should be developed with the united states to blacklist the suppliers of spyware. secondly, europol should be given greater powers to act, especially in cases where the government is turning the matter around. third, we need a european definition of national security. and again, mr tarczynski, politicians in prison are not political prisoners. don't laugh at me.
i'm closing the debate. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 171.
the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 and shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the opinion of the european parliament and of the council [3].
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 18 january 2024.
the next item on the agenda is the report by alice kuhnke on behalf of the commission on women's rights and equality on the gender dimension in the context of rising living costs and the impact of the energy crisis (2023/2115(ini)) (a9-0430/2023).
it's in writing. i think today's debate on skills is extremely important, and i hope we will continue to do so in the future. we live in a very dynamic world. in recent years, the labour market has undergone significant changes. new forms of work have emerged, some professions have disappeared, and completely different ones have emerged. digital and green transformation, the development of artificial intelligence, demographic change are creating new opportunities and challenges. this requires a considerable flexibility and adaptability for workers to meet new requirements. this is why a new approach to labour market management, to education and continuing education is needed. i fully agree with commissioner schmit that more emphasis should be placed on acquiring real skills and not just certificates, diplomas, degrees or certificates. employers stress that it is difficult to find employees in place of those who are retiring. older workers, on the other hand, often need support to adapt to a digital work environment. therefore, intergenerational exchange of knowledge, practice and experience should be encouraged. in addition, soft skills, particularly in communication and teamwork, are key to adapting to changes in the labour market, as well as to the efficiency and satisfaction of both employees and employers. so i think that acquiring these skills should be found in curricula at all stages of education and continuing education.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i want to see you. my colleagues and colleagues! every year, about 160,000 tons of plastic granules and 12 million tons of different types of contaminated plastic are released into the seas and oceans, polluting our ecosystems. we do not know from now on that plastic pollution in the seas and oceans has a negative impact on fish and humans who may be exposed to it directly or indirectly. the environmental disaster that started in portugal and hit spain's galicia could also affect other european coasts. this situation shows that we need to increase the safety control of the transport of toxic goods around europe, and to implement monitoring and rapid response services that can quickly prevent pollution or limit its scope and environmental impact. under the polluting payments rule, companies must be more responsible for goods lost during transport so that it pays more to keep transport safe than to pay for insurance. tools are also needed to help local communities to fight for a clean environment that guarantees human and animal health. we need to make sure the oceans aren't free garbage dumps.
your honor! the european union has shown strength, it has shown unity. unity in this case is a double force because it shows our determination and consistency. but it also showed that in the european union the rule of law is the foundation of our community and the rule of law cannot be a bargaining and blackmailing field. this is a very important message and consequence of these negotiations in december and january. a lesson for anyone who would like to use blackmail tools in the future. we've got months and years ahead of us. that's why i wanted to appeal the verdict. the european union needs to be more integrated to be safer and stronger. it's our common task, so let's not seek artificial divisions between us. let's not build a campaign of confrontation. the real divisions are elsewhere. there is no shortage of selfish european politicians who want a weaker and more disintegrated europe in the name of their own ends. we call them by their names because they're our enemies. they are putin's helpers, and we too, in the name of the expectations of our children, of future generations, build a europe that is common and secure, more integrated, bigger. there will be divisions between us, but let us respect each other, because it is our responsibility not to let ourselves be played by populists and opponents of europe.
mr president, i'm going to have to ask you to come back. your honor! commissioner von der leyen read it, put off the theatrical concern for the farmers and left. gentlemen, the farmers are not done. the farmers are starting. they are protesting against the green order, which is supported by a majority in the european parliament and in the commission, the epp against president weber's words socialists, renew, the greens, sometimes joined by the left. we're having a tough time. we need to stop these documents that are being processed and are hitting the farming industry. and also verify those that have been accepted. and at the same time, to deal with the polish-ukrainian border, where there is a flood of products of the big oligarchs. i understand that the european commission and the european council are hostages to these same big oligarchs. the european commission tells farmers: a good farmer is one who does not sow, reap, cultivate, but gives his land to renewable energy, to wind farms, to photovoltaic farms, so that someone else can earn more than the farmer.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to remind you of the spinning thread and the truss, and the mind goes, of course, to when the illegal immigrants arrive, to how we welcome them. i, who was pleased to be among them, among the protesters, among the farmers, received as a gift a tractor and a fork, symbols of the life of our land and the pride of our agriculture. i have brought the tractor to the european parliament today, to president von der leyen. the tractor is a gesture of peace, hope and reversal of this parliament's march. but i warn you, if things don't change, soon the forks will join us. we must stop an europe that is an enemy of agriculture, which betrays european food culture and tramples on our made in italy. we need a european revolution.
madam president, president von der leyen, president michel, vice-president šefčovič, dear colleagues. congratulations, president michel, to you and to the members of the council for unanimously reaching an agreement on the revision of the multiannual financial framework and on granting eur 50 billion to ukraine. the message from this council is clear: europe is delivering, europe stays united and europe continues to support ukraine for as much as is needed. the conclusion is also obvious: when europe is united, populists have no chance. this revision of the multiannual financial framework was needed because when the multiannual financial framework was decided, the council at the time made two mistakes: it adopted a framework that was too small, it did not have enough resources for the traditional and for the new priorities of the union, and it did not have enough reserves for unexpected developments. this mistake had to be corrected. the second mistake made was that it did foresee the repayment of interest payments for nextgenerationeu from inside the budget but, of course, the budget is meant to support farmers, researchers, students and to better protect our borders. it is not meant to pay back interest payments. these two mistakes made in the past we are now managing together to correct to a large extent: we are going to better protect our borders, we are going to allocate significant resources to this new challenge – migration and border control. we are going to support ukraine and the immediate neighbourhood and we are also protecting our industry. we are going to do this together. the conclusion also for the future is: involve parliament fast in the process. it cannot be that the council takes eight months to reach a proposal, and then expects parliament to agree to it in 80 days. we are committed to working fast on it now, we are going to deliver, we are going to give our vote soon. but for the future, the conclusion needs to be clear: we need to work on this together and put forward budgets which are enough at the beginning of the period so that such revisions do not hastily become needed.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, president michel, the european council, has finally put orbán in a corner. we must learn the lesson, though. those who think they are blackmailing europe should not be supported, but isolated and fought, until they use article 7 of the treaties to deprive hungary of the right to vote and suspend it from community funding if necessary. thanks to this strategy we can continue to give our support to our ukrainian brothers, who are fighting for the freedom of all, by providing them with vital financial assistance. the report also highlights the importance of the strategic technology platform step, which is seeing more resources allocated. but let me say, dear colleagues, if we are serious about green transition and strategic autonomy, a few billion dollars in remodelling cannot be enough. to guarantee the union's sovereignty in strategic areas, a genuine european investment plan is needed, which will support industries in the transition and reduce dependencies, without relying solely on market-distorting state aid. only by truly betting on our industrial fabric, with vision and courage, can we face the challenges of the future.
mr president, mr commissioner, i have to go to the police. you have prepared new taxes for europeans and you don't even hide that it's because you can't pay off the debt from your previous kpo, which, as we warned, turned out to be much more expensive. why more expensive? because your investments in green transformation are making our economy less competitive, our people's lives more difficult and more expensive. and the worst part is that the biggest cost of these new taxes is going to be paid by countries like poland, which you're forcing into this green transformation. because your tusk is right about everything. the next election is therefore an opportunity for all europeans to reject this green, crazy ideology that is making us increasingly difficult and other continents economically fleeing us. this is a huge opportunity that europeans must finally take advantage of.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, mr president of the european council, honourable members, first and foremost, i would like to thank all of the honourable members, starting with the leaders of the political groups, who underscored that the last week, and indeed the last european council, were good for europe. unwavering european support for ukraine was underlined by significant financial assistance of eur 50 billion facility. we believe that, with your approval, we will be able to make important first payments to ukraine as early as in march. on top of this very important decision, the european council also agreed on the first-ever revision of our multiannual budget. it will help us, as stated by mr mureșan, to step up, fight against irregular migration, better protect our borders, respond to natural disasters in the european union – which are on the dramatic rise, as we have seen over the last summer – but also to fund a better western balkans growth plan, and engage with our southern neighbourhood, and also provide important humanitarian assistance, which is so much needed, as we have seen in gaza. i am particularly glad that now we can use our european platform for strategic technologies (step) to support critical technologies made in europe. together we have achieved a solution that corresponds to 80 % of needed funding, which is, in the current situation and under current circumstances, truly remarkable. at the same time, this also demonstrates, as was highlighted by several members of the european parliament – mr mureșan, mr fernandes, mr glucksmann – that the next multiannual financial perspective, our budget for the seven years, must really reflect the new geopolitical situation, growing tasks for the european union, and fierce geo-economic competition, where we would need funding for research and innovation, clean and green tech, so we would have the necessary financial resources to deliver on all these priorities. ms marques and ms hayer spoke about strategic autonomy, and i believe as it is the priority for this commission that it will be also priority for the next one, and i hope that it will remain priority for the european parliament as well. many honourable members referred to farmers and agriculture, and we will have a dedicated debate on agriculture tomorrow. so, let me now just underscore our utmost respect for farmers and foresters, our understanding for the difficult situation, and our readiness to engage, to listen to them and to look for constructive solutions. we believe that through the launch of strategic dialogue on the future of agriculture we will bring a new consensus, that we will overcome the polarisation on this matter, and develop new approaches to be reflected in the next cycle of multiannual financial perspective and cap. so, let’s listen to each other, let’s build bridges and let’s work on our new consensus.
president of the european council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the various interventions. i am convinced that the european council has a responsibility to be the guardian of european unity. this was the case during the covid-19 crisis, when we made sure we could order vaccines together, in europeans. this has been the case in the context of the climate challenge: the european council has set a european climate neutrality horizon by 2050. this was finally the case in the early hours following the total invasion of ukraine by russia, when the european council set out the guidelines we have been following for the last two years, namely support for ukraine and pressure on the kremlin and russia through a sanctions strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are fully used. it will take only a few weeks to get us on 27 and to mobilize an additional 50 billion for ukraine over the next four years, and to send a signal of unity, determination and leadership to our european citizens as well as to our partners around the world, and especially to the united states. the european council's strategy is very clear and very simple: financial and military support. i would like to say that i was amazed to hear the words of the far left, who expressed some doubts about the supply of arms to ukraine. what do you want? do you want the ukrainians to defend themselves with water guns? with speeches? is that what you want? in fact, when we question the strategy of financial and military support for ukraine, we hope without saying that in the end it will not be democratic and european values that will prevail, in the event of a conflict that threatens us we can no longer directly. i would like to say again solemnly here: supporting ukraine is not charity, it is a moral duty, a requirement we have for future generations, for our children and grandchildren. just as those before us had this vision and the responsibility to build this value-based project, today it is our responsibility to live up to it by making sure that every euro of support to ukraine is an investment in our security and stability for the coming decades. i would then like to address mr glucksmann, who i think is no longer here. he has insistently mentioned the question of frozen assets, and i do share his reasoning about the objective which must be ours, namely to capture all or part of those assets to support ukraine's reconstruction capacity. this is not a simple task, because there are legal constraints, international constraints. we have to work together and we are working with our g7 partners. but once again, the european council has taken a step forward by requiring the commission and the high representative to focus first on the benefits of the benefits of the aid so that these financial resources can be used to support ukraine. i would like to share with you, as i listen to this debate, some thoughts on european defence. we are well aware that if we are to ensure that this project is more far-reaching, more impactful for the future, we need to strengthen our capacity for economic development at home, to ensure that we have an economy that is dynamic, entrepreneurial, innovative and competitive: this is a first pillar. but we must also make security and defence the fundamental issues at stake for the future. i remember that in 1954, jean monnet was in the atmosphere, and at the time of the schuman declaration he drew up the dream of a european defence community. at the time, the member states, at least some of them, had not validated the project. in parallel, nato has been deployed to ensure transatlantic security, including security on european soil. i think that today we all need to have our eyes open and all to see that we need a european defence pillar, with nato in close consultation and coordination. this is, in my view, a central theme for the coming years. it is clear that the war against ukraine opened our eyes and made us understand that, without operational security and defence capability, we are at the mercy of those who want to constantly challenge a world based on values and rules, and especially those in which we believe deeply. we want peace, and president zelensky wants peace too, and the easiest way to go to peace is for vladimir putin to withdraw his troops from ukraine. madam, who has just questioned me, i was very shocked by the comments you made when you spoke of luhansk considering that this city would be on russian territory. but what a shock! the territorial sovereignty makes luhansk, that is ukraine, crimea, that is ukraine, and it is not illegal and grotesque decrees that change things. your words are extremely shocking. finally, i am referring to the european budget and the multiannual financial framework. this is true, as the commission said a few moments ago, this is the first time we have revised this european budget and it is a sign of a changing europe. this decision to review this european budget is a signal that we are understanding that we are in a new world, facing new circumstances, and it means that we need to adapt our tools, to adapt our means to be in a position to act and react. this review is a very fundamental signal. why? because, of course, we have decided to mobilise money for ukraine eur 50 billion, with 27 member states within the european budget, point 1. but in point 2, we can see, together with the european commission and with you, members of the european parliament, that there are other priorities that require more funding and more money. migration. we do understand how important it is to show our citizens across the eu that we are in a position to manage this important challenge for all of us. that's why we decide to put more money into managing the external dimension of migration. natural disasters. in slovenia, in italy, in spain, in many of our member states, we faced and we have faced natural disasters and this european solidarity is so important to show our citizens that they are not left alone when we face and they face those circumstances and natural disasters. defence. i don't need to repeat it. it is necessary to invest more in this field. and, of course, technology, competitiveness and it is obvious we need to pay the interest and to take into account the new situation regarding the interest. now, i'd like to say a few words about the middle east and react. because if one political organization, one regional actor in the world has always been very clearly supporting international law, this is the european union, always supporting with humanitarian means, with humanitarian tools. you are absolutely right that in the last meeting of the european council we did not draw any written conclusions, but i can guarantee that the next european council will again have a debate on the middle east. i am confident it will be able to manage to make more political progress in that field. and i would like to express our full support for the two-state solution, because what we want for this region, this is peace, this is stability, this is security, this is reconciliation. the eu support is based on reconciliation. and we need peace in this region between israel and palestine, and between israel and the other arab countries in that region. finally, i have been asked about the decisionmaking process and i would like to thank each and every one of them for their suggestions, for their advice on how to organise the european council. and thank you this is relatively rare for the compliments that have been personally addressed to me; i take them with pleasure and satisfaction. what have we seen in the last four years? in the last four years, there has not been a single meeting of the european council where we have not been able to take clear, strong decisions that have a clear effect on all the issues on our table. in principle, the issues addressed in the european council are the most difficult to solve because, if they are not difficult to solve, then they were before they came to the european council table. it is therefore extremely important to me to continue to use this very special political institution, which is composed of 27 heads of state or government, each with direct responsibility to its national public opinion, its national parliament, and which come together to coordinate, to act together and to contribute with you to building a common political project for the european union. and yes, in this context, i wanted, before last summer, in june, i informed my 27 colleagues, to launch the debate on the european union's strategic agenda, which echoes your work in the european parliament, to see how we will approach the next decades, with three central questions. there are three questions we need to address, in my opinion. the first is what will be, in the future, our common priorities. and we need to take into account the enlargement process because it's a new element, a new fact. there is a renewal of this debate. i remember a few years ago it was not even possible to put the subject on the agenda of the council. now we can see that there is broad consensus, because we understand that this is needed not only to make europe bigger, but more influential and stronger, and this should be the goal with this enlargement process. point one: what will be our common priorities? point two: how do we pay for that? we know that when we're talking about money, it's always complex, sensitive and difficult. but this is necessary because this is how we will make effective the solidarity among all european citizens across the european union. point three: i know that in this parliament there are many opinions on that. it is the same in the council, there are various opinions concerning the decisionmaking process. we need to make sure that we find a balance between unity, european unity, between being strong because when we are united, we are strong and the need to take into account sensitivities, the need to make sure that all the member states feel they are respected with this common european project. my goal, together with the belgian presidency, i welcome the presidency of the belgian foreign minister, who is here with us for this debate. the idea is to be able to define some strategic guidelines on these subjects before the summer so as to also fuel the democratic debate for the european parliament elections. in any case, be assured that leaders will also take responsibility for this important issue for the future of the european project at a time when it is just as important. finally, a few words on the question of agriculture. there has been much said about this and i would like to reaffirm once again, in a very solemn way, the recognition of the enormous and essential work undertaken by farmers throughout the european union. the call we are being made must be heard. there is a need to support farmers' efforts to produce quality food, to support them as actors in the climate transition. i would like to point out that this common agricultural policy, which is one of the pillars of european action, which represents 30% of the european budget, we are committed to it and we want to work with all of us to see how we can ensure that this pillar, which must remain strong in the future, is mobilized for the benefit of all, for the benefit of agriculture, farmers, but also of the environment and public health. how can we find the way to balance? how do we get back to bureaucracy? how can we ensure fair income and fairness in the standards that apply to our farmers at european level? i am absolutely convinced that the fate of the european union is to be strong inside, to be strong inside, we must be just and fair, to be strong outside, to be strong outside, we must be just and fair. this is the way the work is done in the european council. i thank you for taking part in this debate. i listened carefully. be convinced that determination, leadership and the will to be just is what really motivates each member of the european council.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 171)
it's in writing. at the previous plenary session, we saw farmers' protests start in many european countries. we've all been expecting that, and it's hard to surprise them. farmers are fighting for survival, and protests are the strong voice of people who are stepping hard on the ground and calling for a final revision of the green party's utopian ideals. it remains to be believed that the european commission will review its position as soon as possible. the european farmers are waiting. we must support ukraine's fight in this defensive war, and this country deserves our full support. however, mutual solidarity cannot mean an uncritical flood of the european market with ukrainian grain, which particularly affects polish farmers and supports oligarchs.
in writing. mr president michel, you spoke for more than 13 minutes about what you discussed at the council meeting on 1 february, including about 2 minutes about the situation of farmers who have been on the streets for months! you informed us about the decision to help ukraine with 50 billion, but you didn't say that money was cut from research, cohesion, agriculture. you didn't tell us what you decided on the common agricultural policy. you said you should respect the farmers, but how do you do it? by ignoring the relevant demands: no longer to force them to leave the land unused, no longer to import from third countries uncertain cereals and products and at a dumped price? the eu must be concerned about peace, but peace is not achieved by escalating arms. you boasted you'd give ukraine a million shots, but that means you're feeding death. negotiate peace! the citizens of ukraine want peace. the economic situation in the eu is difficult and the european council is not concerned with finding solutions. i think, mr. president, it was better to resign. the eu needs leaders who understand what social cohesion, respect for the values, culture and traditions of each member state means. stop treating citizens with double standards!
in writing. socialists welcome the approval of financial aid for ukraine worth 50 billion euros until 2027. a great step in our commitment to the ukrainian people and their aspirations to be a free and sovereign country that we must continue to strengthen with the increase of ammunition production capacity to stop the war and prevent similar aggressions in the future. on the other hand, in the light of the devastating humanitarian situation in gaza and the escalation of regional violence, we socialists call on the eu to join forces to end the conflict, alleviate the humanitarian situation, prevent regional escalation, free hostages, strengthen the palestinian authority, begin reconstruction and hold an international conference culminating in the palestinian state. finally, we advocate continuing to build europe of opportunity by completing the reform of tax rules to strengthen quality public services and creating a permanent investment instrument to finance the green transition and digital transformation. and we ask the right not to manipulate the legitimate concerns of our farmers and ranchers, but to join forces to find solutions to their problems.
in writing. – with the commission in tow, the european council has again shown itself adept in overriding tactical challenges to major issues that needed to be cleared, this time the settlement of the eu’s financial commitment to the ukraine in its fight against russian aggression. however, such tactical deftness really amounts to kicking the can up the road. there is no glimmer as to what europe would consider an acceptable ending to the russia-ukraine war, or what should be the long-term vision for an eu-russia entente, with or without putin. similarly, on the israeli-hamas war, the eu position remains, at best, incoherent. regarding how internal eu priorities are taking shape, the contradictions emerging between the environmental reach of the green deal and the social and economic consequences that follow from it require strategic clearance. instead, as with the turmoil in the agricultural sector, approaches take the form of hesitant half steps backwards. meanwhile, the medium-term financial options by which to finance the decisions being taken remain obscure. in all this, the european parliament should be a voice that emphasises the need to achieve clarity of purpose. whatever is being done in this direction is not effective. quite likely, the can will continue to be kicked up the road.
in writing. in recent weeks farmers across europe have taken to the streets to protest the insane social and environmental policies that are leading them to collapse. the measures in question did not come out of nowhere: the commission has not yet taken any further steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the implementation of the budget. the commission itself, which now claims to be on the farmers' side, has always punished them by promoting unfair competition and harmful legislation. the implementation of the green deal principles and the opening up to markets outside the union, which are not subject to the same quality standards and constraints, are a condemnation for our producers. the european council's similarly short position on hungary, which was taken in response to orbán's opposition, is a clear example of the hypocrisy and impartiality of this commission. in fact, we did not see the same rigidity when macron vetoed the mercosur agreement to calm the farmers' protests in his country. this is yet another demonstration of how the commission uses certain instruments, such as the european budget or the rule of law, to punish countries that do not align with it.
in writing. the successive delays in reaching agreement by the 27 member states on the interim review of the multiannual financial framework 2020-2027 have weakened the union's geopolitical position, conveyed a perception of a lack of cohesion in the objectives and affected the context of mobilising european citizens to vote in the upcoming european elections. however, a late approval is better than its absence. i welcome the approval of a mechanism to support ukraine to strengthen its capacity to cope with the russian invasion when it marks two years of aggression, at a maximum aggregate value of 50 billion euros. humanistic and sustainable migration management is a priority challenge for the union. i also welcome the insufficient but positive step taken by the two countries to strengthen the new pact on migration and asylum and the cooperation with third countries by eur 7.6 billion. finally, i would like to emphasize the allocation of eur 1.5 billion to the strengthening of the solidarity and emergency reserve, in particular the strengthening of the reserve for emergency response in third countries by eur 108 million per year.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements and the motions for resolutions on the need for unwavering eu support for ukraine, after two years of russia’s war of aggression against ukraine. dear colleagues, two years ago, the world order was upended by russia’s illegal invasion of sovereign, independent ukraine. they thought they could take kyiv in a matter of days. they miscalculated the determination of the ukrainian people and they underestimated the resolve of the european union and the international community. ukraine has inspired, and continues to inspire, the world. a few weeks after the initial invasion i spoke in the name of the members of the european parliament, in kyiv, in front of the verkhovna rada and beside president zelenskyy. i made a promise on behalf of all us: that we would stand with ukraine and its people for as long as it takes. in the last two years, europe has kept that promise. we will keep that promise still. our political, economic, military, financial, humanitarian and diplomatic support has remained steadfast. the european union is the largest financial supporter of ukraine with eur 88 billion provided so far. we are ramping up our eu defence industry’s production capacity to provide ukraine with over 1 million artillery rounds by the end of the year. an agreement on the additional eur 50 billion ukraine facility, pending agreement on the multiannual financial framework, was also reached last night – funding that is crucial for ukraine’s survival, recovery, and reconstruction. we know the sacrifice that the ukrainian people are enduring. we know they endure it for their sake and for all of europe, for our collective security, for our shared values, for our way of life. the european parliament was the first to call for ukraine to receive eu candidate status and we were the strongest advocate for eu accession negotiations to start last year. because we know that ukraine’s place is within our union. as we enter the third year of russia’s war on aggression on ukraine, i want to use this moment to renew the promise that we made to the ukrainian people: we are with you and we will remain with you. slava ukraini!
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the passionate debate we just had is certainly linked to the fact that we are celebrating and approaching this very sad anniversary. almost two years ago, russia, driven by the anachronistic urge redefine the map of europe in order to satisfy its expansionist ambitions, launched a full—scale military aggression against ukraine, bringing war back to europe. let us remember that russia’s aggression against ukraine is a clear violation of the charter of the united nations and the fundamental principles of international law. for almost two years, it has been causing enormous human suffering in ukraine, causing or exacerbating global crises, and inflicting considerable damage on the global economy. this war is one of the main threats to peace and stability on our continent and far beyond. in the face of this immense challenge, europe has shown unity and determination. since day one, the european council has provided strategic guidance for the european union’s response and has taken decisive action. the eu has strongly condemned russian aggression and played a fundamental role in efforts to isolate russia on the international stage. in addition to unwavering political support, the european union, led by its member states, has provided an extraordinary level of humanitarian, financial, economic and military support to ukraine. allow me to elaborate on one of the main aspects of this unprecedented effort. d’abord, je dois souligner que non seulement notre aide à l’ukraine se poursuit, mais qu’en plus elle augmente. comme le président charles michel vient de le rappeler, la semaine dernière, un conseil européen extraordinaire a donné son accord pour apporter un soutien supplémentaire à l’ukraine à hauteur de 50 milliards d’euros sur la période 2024-2027 grâce à la facilité pour l’ukraine. il est à présent crucial de finaliser ce paquet, qui permet une aide stable et sur le long terme à l’ukraine, et je remercie le parlement pour son travail constructif au sein des trilogues, qui ont pu aboutir hier soir à un accord de principe. au-delà de cet accord, qui donne à l’ukraine une perspective et rend tangible notre engagement as long as it takes, l’union européenne et les états membres ont à ce jour mis à disposition de l’ukraine et de sa population une aide de quelque 85 milliards d’euros, comprenant notamment 31 milliards d’euros d’appui budgétaire et humanitaire, 28 milliards de soutien militaire, 17 milliards d’aide aux états membres pour l’accueil de réfugiés, et aussi de quoi aider la population ukrainienne à faire face aux besoins les plus urgents de l’hiver. nous avons renforcé le soutien humanitaire et de protection civile, dont bénéficient plus de 10 millions de personnes en ukraine. nous avons également accueilli sur nos territoires plus de 4 millions de réfugiés ukrainiens en leur offrant une protection prolongée jusqu’à mars 2025, à la suite de la décision unanime des états membres prise en octobre dernier. ces aides ne se sont faites ni sans sacrifice ni sans effet secondaire, et j’en veux pour preuve les corridors de solidarité que nous avons et que nous devons continuer à soutenir, en les améliorant, bien sûr, pour assurer les exportations de céréales et de produits agricoles ukrainiens, mais aussi afin d’éviter les risques de famine. toute notre énergie, aujourd’hui et demain, doit se concentrer sur notre unité, notre cohésion sur le long terme, et la décision prise par le conseil européen d’ouvrir des négociations d’adhésion avec l’ukraine est un puissant signal d’espoir et de confiance. il a renforcé l’élan européen de l’ukraine et envoie un signal tout aussi fort à la russie: le destin de l’ukraine est au sein de l’union, son adhésion n’est plus qu’une question de temps – and the clock is ticking. en attendant, alors que nous aidons l’ukraine, nous continuons à affaiblir la russie avec des sanctions. nous espérons finaliser un treizième paquet de sanctions à la date symbolique du 24 février prochain. notre soutien est aussi, évidemment, militaire. le conseil a fait un usage intensif de la facilité européenne pour la paix en fournissant, jusqu’à présent, 5,6 milliards d’euros pour le transfert d’équipements militaires vers l’ukraine. nous devons d’urgence accélérer la livraison de munitions et de missiles pour tenir notre engagement et fournir à l’ukraine 1 million d’obus 155 mm. nous en sommes pour l’instant très loin. en mars prochain, selon les prévisions, nous devrions atteindre environ 524 000 obus. c’est très loin de l’objectif que nous nous étions fixé. nous devons absolument faire mieux et développer notre capacité de production. nous travaillons également à la paix. l’union et les états membres coopèrent activement avec l’ukraine et le plus grand nombre d’états possible en vue d’une paix juste et globale sur la base de la charte des nations unies. nous soutenons évidemment la formule de paix de l’ukraine et nous sommes prêts à contribuer à la paix et au succès du sommet pour la paix, lequel devrait être organisé autour du plan de paix présenté par le président zelensky dès que ce sera chose possible. le conseil continuera à suivre tous ces aspects avec la plus grande attention, avec la plus grande détermination. notre détermination ne peut tout simplement pas faillir. il en va de l’avenir de l’ukraine. il en va de l’avenir de l’europe.
president of the commission. – mr president, ms minister, honourable members, in any fight, it is always the side fighting for something that has a higher power on its side. it is the one who believes in what they are fighting for that will sacrifice and do what it takes to prevail. conversely, it is the side who fights against something that will always be scared. scared to lose, scared to think of the future, scared to speak out. two years ago, putin and russia started a war against something, a war against ukraine and its territory, but also against the people and a nation with an iron will and hope for the future; against their european aspirations; against the values they share with us; and quite simply, against both modern reality and the strong tides of european history. in doing so, putin started a fight against all of us, against freedom, self-determination and democracy at large; against everything that we have stood for over 70 years. ukraine has proven the power of a nation and a people fighting for something. for themselves first and foremost, but also for us and for everything that we believe in: freedom, democracy, rights and aspirations. some were surprised by ukraine’s heroic action. but no one should have been surprised that, when faced with oppression, subjugation and tyranny, they chose resistance. that is why, honourable members, i remain just as convinced of one simple fact today than i was two years ago standing in front of you. that is that ukraine will prevail and that europe will stand with ukraine every step of the way. honourable members, we have spoken in great detail over the last two years on the eu’s historic and massive support for ukraine – be it military, financial or human; be it on sanctions, security or the single market; be it on the historic path of ukraine to our union that this house has been such a strong supporter of. but today, on this poignant anniversary debate, it is time to look deeper at how we have got there and where we must go. the starting point is that ukraine – and europe – have shown that we are willing to fight and pay the ultimate price for the things that we believe in. this was one of putin’s greatest miscalculations in that month of february, as he amassed troops on the border and planned a quick lightning strike on kyiv. mr putin, you made this mistake because you cannot understand what drives the human spirit when it is free to think, dream, create and prosper. nor can you understand, because you cannot bear to accept that the human desire for freedom will always win. honourable members, putin cannot understand that if you give people a choice, they choose liberty once and for all. in ukraine’s case, they fight for liberation. he cannot understand that the fight of the ukrainian is different to the fight of a russian soldier, whose lives putin has callously churned for a past long gone and a future that could never exist. ukraine’s sacrifice is the opposite. why do they fight? because they are battling, toiling, for something existential and inherent to the human condition. this is why ukraine’s will is not just stronger than russia’s. it is fundamentally different in nature and in character. this is what putin will never comprehend about us. this is why his invasion was not just morally, but also strategically, wrong. he cannot understand freedom and why we fight for it, because his only instinct is to crush what he fears. this explains what has happened in the last two years. instead of toppling kyiv, dividing the european union and weakening nato, the exact opposite has happened on each and every count. with the support of the european union and our allies, ukraine has not only held firm against a bigger country, a bigger army and a bigger economy, but it has retaken more than half of the territory that russia occupied from the start of this conflict. they have knocked back russian offensives last winter and are doing the same now. this indomitable spirit is what we have to keep in mind here in europe and right across the democratic world at this juncture of the war. there’s no time for wavering. there’s no time for navel-gazing. the message europe sent at last week’s european council was crystal clear. let me repeat it here. europe will be at ukraine’s side for every single day of this war, and for every single day thereafter. honourable members, we must keep up our momentum to support ukraine and to protect our own future. that means thinking about reconstruction, about security commitments, about strengthening the international system to avoid any repeats or reruns. it also means continuing to support ukraine in every way we can. take military support. so far, we have trained over 40 000 ukrainian soldiers. our union and member states have mobilised eur 28 billion worth of military equipment. the european defence industry has increased its production capacity for ammunition by 40 %. we will have delivered over half a million rounds of artillery shells by next month, more than 1 million by the end of the year. but this is certainly not enough. not only must we accelerate the delivery of ammunition to ukraine, but as we look to the future, we must think of ukraine’s defence capabilities as part of our defence capabilities. we must think of ukraine’s defence industry as part of our own defence industry. this is why we have involved ukraine in the preparations of our own defence industrial strategy. it is a first step, which should lead to integrating ukraine in some of our defence programmes, with the agreement of the european parliament and council where necessary. this would not only help us cater for ukraine’s defence needs, it will also encourage convergence and joint planning between our militaries and defence industries. ukraine is a future member of our european union, so it must get much closer to us, also in the field of defence. this leads me to my third and last point on ukraine’s path towards our union. the contrast with just ten years ago couldn’t be starker. back then, a pro-russia regime in ukraine was passing authoritarian laws and killing protesters on the streets. today, this country has just given itself new legislation to expand national minority rights, to improve the judicial system, and to ensure checks and balances on power. this is what led us to launching the accession negotiations. this progress is happening not only because europe is asking for it. this is the deep desire of the people of ukraine. ukraine is europe, because europe is in the hearts and in the minds of ukrainians. soon enough, ukraine will also be in our union. honourable members, the anniversary that we mark today is a tragic loss of human lives and suffering, and it is all the more tragic as we know there will be more pain and more suffering ahead. we know how much is at stake here for those in ukraine and also for the rest of europe. putin’s fantasy and fabricated war, and ukraine’s heroic resistance, has reminded us here that our freedoms and our democracy are worth fighting for. so today, we pay tribute to those who are fighting, and we pay tribute to those who paid the ultimate sacrifice in fighting for something. slava ukraini!
on behalf of the renew group. – mr president, commissioner, madam minister, dear colleagues, a day before i spoke with a colleague in ukraine who shared the following observations. i quote: ‘only a strong europe with strong defence capabilities can stop russia from continuing on its war path. the war in ukraine only gives us – europeans – time to properly prepare. russian society has been enslaved by putin’s regime and is part of the war machine. it is therefore important that europe’s security challenges are properly understood by our citizens, especially by the young people who will continue the fight against eastern totalitarianism.’ two years into the brutal war in ukraine, my friend’s observations sound like a clear manifesto for europe, calling for solutions to be fully implemented. yesterday, we concluded trilogue negotiations on ukraine’s facility, but the amount of our support for ukraine needs to be multiplied. so must european defence capabilities. only in this way can the threat to europeans from russian fascism be averted. slava ukraini and europeans!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president! - what? - my colleagues and colleagues! to survive, to maintain the collective advantage of the west, both military and economic, we must support a ukraine that fights for us and bleeds now, immediately and without preconditions, without theatre in the form of treaty changes, budget reforms, blackmail of small member states. it takes a strong political will to overcome everything. i must admit, i have little hope for such a solution. but hopes are supposed to die last, so i might expect some positive results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two years, 24 months of bombs, violence and terror inflicted on an innocent people only to satisfy the thirst for power of a tyrannical and criminal regime. to support kiev with all our strength is a moral duty, but it is also an existential challenge to the future of our union. i thank you, president von der leyen, for your clear, strong and determined words today, because it is the determination, the courage and the timing that we need. that's why the 5 billion-plus increase in the european peace facility is needed now, because the ammunition on the front is needed now. that's why we must confiscate, sell and donate all russian assets frozen in europe to kiev to support the resistance now. that is why we must not allow any european government to blackmail us, starting with viktor orbán. article 7 must be activated without fear now, because those who do not defend european values do not deserve to be defended by our union. putin must know that we will not be afraid, that we will not hesitate, that we will support the ukrainian people and their sovereignty and freedom with all our strength and that very soon ukraine will be our 28th member state. because there is no ukraine without europe, but there is no europe without ukraine. - thank you, ukrainians!
mr president, colleagues, shanovni ukraintsi. ten years of war, two years of full—scale war waged by a war criminal in the kremlin. the ukrainian nation stands united and refuses to be subjugated back into the servitude of a russian gulag. the eu also stands united behind ukraine, and we are not alone, if we look at the rammstein format of almost 50 states that help in multifaceted ways. i am proud, as standing rapporteur for ukraine and as a co-rapporteur for the ukraine facility, that we concluded the trilogue on the ukraine facility yesterday evening as part of the revised multiannual financial framework. however, we can forget about all these good things that we have foreseen if ukraine is unable to defend itself and push back the aggressor towards its own borders. we need to support ukraine in this regard, not only as long as it takes, but with whatever it takes. that is why i support the suggestion of the estonian prime minister that said that every eu member state should provide 0.025 % of its gdp for weapons deliveries to the country. le président macron a parlé à plusieurs reprises du soutien de la france jusqu’à la victoire. très bien. mais il faut des livraisons d’armes françaises au niveau, par exemple, de ce que fournit l’allemagne. aber gegenüber dem zögerlichen und falsch beratenen deutschen kanzler wiederhole ich in guter gesellschaft mit führenden vertretern der ampelkoalition und der cdu/csu-opposition im bundestag die forderung: liefern sie taurus jetzt! es gibt dafür eine mehrheit im bundestag. deutschland ist keine ein-mann-demokratie. haben sie keine angst vor ihren parteilinken, sondern vor einem sieg putins! stehen wir gemeinsam und dauerhaft geschlossen gegen das reich des bösen, das auch unsere art zu leben bedroht! slawa ukrajini!
your honor, almost two years of war. that's two years too long. russia's attack on ukraine is an attack on the whole of europe, on international law and peace. two years is a sign of the ukrainian people's tenacity. they've held out, and so must we. the eu must increase its military and financial support to ukraine in a way that ensures ukraine's victory and not just help to continue the fight. the eur 50 billion aid package for ukraine is important, but i insist that the eur 200 billion frozen assets of the russian central bank, which are located in the eu, be immediately and fully used for ukraine. we must also train our troops in the territory of ukraine and find more ways to help them immediately. in two years, some 200,000 ukrainians have been killed or injured. we won't forget, we won't give up. - you're the one who's got the ukraine.
the chairman, the minister, the vice president! yes, the good news is that ukraine has 50 billion euros of aid, but let's face it, military aid from the member states is not enough for ukraine. we are delaying, especially on the part of some member states. we're not dealing with the confiscation of russian frozen funds. we have not implemented a system that allows us to circumvent sanctions, and also a lot of the unsanctioned goods that the eu's business profits from, and russia also profits from these export directions. why am i saying that? because i think it matters. we cannot help ukraine anytime as much as it will be necessary because we are endangering the nation, culture, language of ukraine at this time. because, let's face it, the goal of russification is for the people of ukraine, which is what russia is doing. and last week, there was a prominent conference in riga on russia's war against ukrainian children. these tens, hundreds of thousands, perhaps thousands of children who are separated from their families are actually examples of this russification, because while russia had previously implemented a policy of russification during the soviet union, it did not exclude family children from their families. in this case, these ukrainian children on the russian side may also lose their ukrainian identity within a few months, perhaps a year. and if we really want to help them, then it's probably a big deal. and that can only be fixed with full military support to ukraine. the sooner, the better, because we're going to waste time and the people of ukraine.
mr. chairman, please! the combination of financial aid to ukraine's war effort and ukraine's membership of the eu is profoundly damaging. the truth is that we do not want to discuss the consequences of ukrainian eu membership, but i do not want to participate in the debate and the refusal. if ukraine becomes a member of the eu, it will mean more eastern crime, more social dumping, more welfare tourism. for denmark alone, the economic cost will be 26 billion in each budgetary period, which is equivalent to 5-6 of the so-called superhospitals. and that is why, dear friends, ukrainian membership of the european union is a cultural and economic disaster for our cooperation. if we want to help the ukrainians, we must do so with the help of arms now and then! a weapons aid which denmark has provided to a much greater extent than the majority of the member states represented here in the house and an arms aid which is suffering a significant population decline when compared with ukrainian membership of the union.
blue-card question. – you advocated a whole lot of anti-americanism, i didn’t expect anything else. but are you not ashamed that you speak on this topic without mentioning, with a single word, the responsibility of the russian dictator putin for this war? aren’t you ashamed?
- your honor, the president. the war in ukraine has been going on for almost two years, and since then you've been repeating the same empty phrases, "we support ukraine as long as we need to", and then you're out of the room and living your quiet lives. you are burning in the heat of war, and many are forging political capital from a tragedy in which hundreds of thousands have died and millions have lost their homes, and the horrors of war must be experienced every day. young, old, women and children wake up and lie down with airborne sirens, not knowing when to lose their loved ones. as a carpathian hungarian, i see this side of war, that every day they recruit soldiers and then they bury them. we're hungarians too, and life is getting harder. - enough of this. we need a ceasefire and peace negotiations. a lasting peace as soon as possible is the only solution. and enough of hungary's lying slander! hungary has from the beginning declared its commitment to ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and has repeatedly condemned russian aggression, and is helping the ukrainian people as best it can. we support life and the future.
mr president, late in the evening yesterday – actually just before midnight – we concluded the trilogue on the ukraine facility. we can now provide ukraine with predictable financing throughout 2024 and beyond. this is good news, and i would like to thank all colleagues – one of the co-rapporteurs michael gahler is present – engaged in these procedures. with a total of eur 50 billion, to be complemented – dear council and commission representatives – by the proceeds of frozen russian assets, the ukraine facility gives us maximum flexibility with regard to the annual distribution of loans, grants and guarantees. this agreement is a vital step in our support of ukraine against the russian aggressor. despite seeming to be relentless, russia is failing on multiple objectives. i can only underline what commission president ursula von der leyen said in remarkably clear words. this war for russia is primarily a military failure. russia’s failure is also economic. finally, russia’s failure is also diplomatic. ukraine can prevail, but we must continue to empower their resistance, especially now that russia is stepping up its attacks on civilian infrastructure, trying to demoralise the brave ukrainian people. in the eu, we must not lose sight of this sense of urgency.
mr president, it’s been two years since the full-scale russian aggression against ukraine started. it’s been two years of heroic defence of ukraine and europe. it’s been two years of unprecedented help for ukraine and ukrainians by the democratic world. but it’s also two years of manoeuvres by opportunistic political leaders who have done a lot not to let russia be defeated and have not done the right things in the right time. and that policy continues with protecting aggressors’ frozen assets against confiscation and using them to support the victim. it’s a shame that, instead of confiscation, misleading formulas are invented, offering to ukraine a fraction of what can be given. it’s a shame that the us congress blocks necessary arms and ammunition supplies, betraying ukrainian soldiers facing growing russian pressure. once again in history, it’s a choice between law and peace on the one hand, and disgrace and war on the other.
it's in writing. russia's war on georgia and ukraine is part of putin's post-cold war security architecture. in defending itself against russia, ukraine is fighting for freedom, but also defending europe, the right of states to choose alliances and paths of development. europe should also uphold these security principles. another debate on ukraine's defence shows that many european politicians are in a dilemma with european security principles. i will remind you that the munich compromise did not stop the outbreak of world war ii. the yalta compromise did not prevent the cold war arms race. the search for a soviet detente did not stop his aggressive activities around the world. only president reagan's tough policies and the stabbing of the mujahedeen in afghanistan led to the fall of the evil empire. today, europe, supposedly united within the union, has more tools to stop the aggressor. we can isolate russia and russians from our part of the world. we can effectively sanction russia's economy. (meanwhile, we threaten hungary.) we can withdraw funds frozen in the eu from russia. we can finally supply the most efficient and modern weapons and ammunition that the largest european countries produce for export. we can do a lot. but we do not want to do so because of a lack of will, not because of a lack of european potential. another debate should be about why europeans still don't want to defend themselves. they're choosing shame again. unfortunately, after shame, war usually comes anyway.
the president, the commissioner! my colleagues and colleagues! i think in a few months we'll be investigating who's behind the solutions that global companies are doing their own business with. i want to remind you that the field of genomics is a controversial one, and unfortunately, over the years we have received conflicting legal interpretations and different assessments from the perspective of bioethics and food safety. the european parliament is launching a change of the name of genomic techniques to crop techniques to avoid associations with first generation gm crops. but this camouflage is an abuse. targeted mutagenesis and cisgenesis are also genetic modifications of the body. so please don't blind people to this, and don't suggest that decades of use of these techniques in the united states are crucial to the safety of crops for the human body. such research, especially on the potential for carcinogenicity, requires a decades-long perspective, and we should be very careful. i suggest you ask scientists, experts, and not lobby global companies that just want to make money.
madam president! as regards the draft regulation on new genomic techniques poland has been balanced from the outset, which means that it recognises the need to develop and use innovation in plant production. yet we also take into account social reservations about genetic modification. the main reservations are that the european commission's project does not sufficiently ensure the cleanliness of organic production and the so-called coexistence with conventional production. the draft assumes that the european commission has too wide powers to issue delegated acts, in particular as regards amendments to annex 1. the competent authorities of the member states still do not have effective tools to detect ngts tracking. it is necessary to provide an opt-out clause for member states in relation to ngt2. poland's preference is to label final products made using ngt1. the availability of these plants and the protection of the interests of small and medium-sized farming enterprises is a crucial issue and therefore ngt1 plants are not subject to patenting. this threatens the rise and consolidation of the oligopoly of several multinationals. i will vote against the adoption of this report.
mr. president, what is this? the commission! my colleagues and colleagues! i don't know if my friends and colleagues don't notice that they speak a completely different language than europeans. the farmers remind you of this and they just started and will lead this reminder to the elections on june 9. and i think it's time for another majority to care about the lives of europeans. the environment agency plus the scientific council said we can't handle 55 by 2030. what's he saying? let's blow up the thermometer, let's punish the member states, let's tax agriculture, let's tax food, let's freeze the energy tax directive so that energy prices go up 300 to 500 percent, let's move to smaller cars, of course electric, even though they're chinese all over the european union, let's switch big houses to smaller ones. this is the report, this is the scientific council. and what does the commission say? i can't see, i can't hear, 90% against europeans.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i want to see you. your honor! it is important to plan rationally and pragmatically. in a special report for 2023, the european court of auditors stressed that the 2030 targets show little to show that we can achieve them. the introduction of new fit for 55 solutions, as we see where we don't look, is a huge disappointment. examples include farmers' protests and the pressure farmers put on the european commission to remove from the climate goal by 2040 such as a 30% reduction in agricultural pollution, recommendations to reduce meat consumption, or pressure to withdraw fossil fuel subsidies. so we design without reflection, we plan without rationality, because then we retreat under the pressure of protest. climate policy should aim to protect the environment, but not at the expense of stifling member states' economies and driving citizens into poverty. we have to be rational, or we're gonna lose the fight for the environment. we can't cast a spell on reality. we have to be pragmatic. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising a blue sheet)
the answer to the question indicated by raising the blue sheet. i want to quote my conclusion: the goal of climate policy should be to care for the climate, but not at the expense of national economies and not to impoverish citizens. if other important countries like china, the united states, african countries don't follow the parities that we're setting up, the economy goes and manufacturing companies go to china, to other countries around the world, when the raw materials of rare earths needed to restructure our industry at 97% we have to buy from countries like congo, burma, china, where there is no democracy, tell me, where is the rationality here? when the court of auditors says we can't achieve our 30 year targets, tell me, how can we create even more ambitions? we should consider why we can't achieve these goals by 30 years. and then design rational actions that protect the environment and protect the economy.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, i want to see you. this debate is important and groundbreaking because it shows europeans who is on their side. who, like millions of people protesting in the streets of europe, demands a revision of eu climate policy. politics that push people to the brink of poverty and bring industry and agriculture to ruin. this debate also shows which parties and which politicians in the commission and parliament still support europe's economic suicide. the inconvenient news about the effects of climate policy is being gassed with water cannons today, but the truth cannot be swallowed up. that truth is an indictment for most of you. now the farmers are accusing you, tomorrow the workers from the closed factories will probably come here, and the next day the youth will be deceived by the green utopia that is listening to this debate today. do you realize that most people are tired of your moral phrases about the planet, the climate and the new order you're preparing for europe? wake up, now! wake up for your own good, too, before your dream becomes a nightmare for the citizens, but also for yourselves.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i am not going to say anything. we are talking here about the dramatic drought and water crisis in the european union caused by the climate crisis and the need for a sustainable water strategy for europe. i have a question, especially to the majority representatives in this house, why did you attack with such aggression the previous polish government, which was carrying out activities related to the retention and regulation of rivers in poland? why was the law and justice government so brutally attacked in this house for trying to regulate odra? we are in strasbourg, where the rhine border is fully regulated and navigable, but the odra border can no longer be regulated. or because it would be a competition for german ports? how distinctive it was in this house that this topic brought together all german meps, whether greens or renews or the ppe or even the afd. unfortunately, the european commission's policy today is that in europe, you can regulate and navigate all rivers, in france, belgium, germany, the netherlands, but you can't in poland. are you saying poland is the scissors of europe? we'll never agree to that.
mr president, honourable commissioner, climate change and the associated drought threaten a substantial part of europe and 30% of the european population. they threaten the transport, energy and, of course, agriculture sectors. fourteen billion euros a year is the only possible impact of these risks. what about it? we must certainly increase resilience in the water sector, as you yourself have suggested, commissioner. systemicity in water use and also response to crisis situations. i'll remind you of the civil protection mechanism. secondly, involving all relevant actors, not only at eu level but also at local level. thirdly, we need to comply with the existing legislation. i'm not convinced we need a new legislation. we also need to have drought management plans - both european and national. fourthly, we certainly need to examine the issue of overflow. it's a separate chapter. sometimes in summer, the flow no longer resembles the rivers at all, and it's important to regulate this overuse of the flow. and fifth, we need detailed knowledge of the territory, an investment plan, and also the ability to implement adaptation measures in the landscape. these are all the challenges we face, and i am convinced that we can meet them in cooperation with the european commission, the member states and local actors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, drought is an emergency affecting all of europe and particularly the south of the union. we heard our spanish and portuguese colleagues. italy is also at high risk, especially in view of the summer season. the absence of rain, high temperatures and dry land in recent years are the prerequisites for a summer water crisis. we have all of them, especially from april to may, when the agricultural sector will start to need more water for irrigation and without that water we will not have the food we need. the european union's action is essential to ensure that long-term policies are put in place to secure this common but limited good. the election campaign that is piquing europe's choices on the green transition, especially on the right, i do not think is the right direction. the alarm about the european water situation must move us with responsibility and vision to insist on the full implementation of the green deal, to protect our lives while protecting the planet.
mr. president, what is this? water is life. i represent lower silesia and the opole voivodeship. in poland, drought problems, lack of water are also problems for our farmers. they're facing the effects of drought every year. we really need investments in water retention, in sanitation, in water supply. because we believe that the european commission should urgently unlock the measures that are blocked for political reasons, that can actually work today, that are needed to build dams, reservoirs and a new water system. for economic and ecological reasons, the issue of river regulation, including the odra in particular, is a key investment. the legal framework for investments such as the odr river regulation is needed. at the same time, we must fight against irrational investment blockades by groups of pseudo-ecologists. this is extremely important, and that is why the european union needs to draw up a very good investment plan today.
on behalf of the ecr group. the president! - what? lead and its inorganic compounds have extremely harmful effects on health. lead does not decompose, it accumulates in the body, it is especially dangerous for children. it affects the fertility of women and men and the development of the fetus. it damages the nervous system, kidneys, heart and blood. this amendment to the lead directive is very important for occupational health and safety, for the health of workers. this is the first change to the lead exposure limits for workers in 40 years. we have achieved a balance between better protection of european workers and avoiding the decline of the european lead industry and dependence on lead supplies from third countries. in addition, the exposure limit has been reduced four times, and a transition period has been introduced, which will allow workers to continue their duties, and by reducing lead in the blood, we will make new workers better protected.
it's in writing. thank you to the european commission for your statement. i am pleased that the debate on internships has returned to the agenda, especially in the context of the european year of skills. internships are the most common means of gaining professional competence. i am glad that the commissioner has expressed his condemnation of free practice so clearly. i fully agree with his position. at the same time, as a counter-reporter to the high-quality traineeships report, i would like to stress the importance of other qualitative traineeships: the obligation to have a traineeships contract, the educational dimension, the absence of job substitution and the availability of traineeships for people with disabilities. i hope that the legislative instrument announced by commissioner schmit will be effective and will lead to the enforcement of the principles of high quality internships, including full inclusion of disadvantaged people.
on behalf of the epp group. the commissioner, the honourable member! mr. president, what is this? - what? - my colleagues and colleagues! i'm very happy to be speaking here today because i was just starting my career, my career path as a teacher. i know how much responsibility lies with this professional group. the voice of teachers should be heard here in the european parliament. the right working conditions for teachers are also a very relevant topic in my country. the government is now working to restore respect, decent pay and opportunities for this group of professionals. as parents, we expect teachers to mold our children to be an inspiration and support. but are we properly appreciating them? can they, at this scale of bureaucracy, focus on what's really important? it is time to respect this profession, to create adequate, stable working conditions and to develop teachers as a key investment in europe's economy and social development. europe is facing a mental health crisis that dramatically affects children and young people, as well as bullying and cyber-violence. we can't leave the children and teachers alone with this problem. i therefore call for supporting professional development and in particular for equipping teachers with the knowledge, skills and tools to enable them to diagnose problems early and take appropriate action. it is necessary to create interdisciplinary support systems composed of professionals who are able to help students in crisis and support teachers by preventing feelings of helplessness and professional burnout.
the question is signalled by raising a blue sheet. i've been listening carefully to your remarks. i'm a teacher by profession. in poland, a process of education reform is underway. when we talk about the education space, we're talking about teachers, we're talking about the quality of the teachers' work, about the requirements that teachers have to meet, but we're talking about the quality of the requirements. and i would like to ask you, would you like a solution that is currently preferred in poland recently to go from doing homework, homework for students? is this the right way to improve the quality of education and to get rid of illiteracy?
