on behalf of the left group. the report is a good example of the growing habit of under-regulating the financial system, doing enough to do something and not doing enough to be effective. this is what happens in the case of energy derivatives a sector that already had an impact on energy prices and on people's portfolio, but which had a worsening impact in the context of the war in ukraine. although some positive proposals have been approved at this level, they are emergency proposals which do not solve the structural problem in the energy derivatives market, which has had very negative impacts on rising energy prices and therefore on household budgets. and it is a pity that regulation of the financial system and, in particular, of derivatives is always short of what is necessary, creating a cat-and-mouse game between regulators and regulators, where those who aim to defend the public interest are always running far behind. it is also true that conflicts of interest in payments to brokers have been resolved and this is positive, although what existed before we agreed was quite grotesque. and it is also true that transparency standards have been introduced in these markets. but all this is very little, especially in view of the costs that citizens have had to bear because of the deregulation of these markets.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, let me be crystal clear. we totally condemn the ongoing attacks on maritime activities in the red sea from these houthi-controlled territories in yemen with the support of iran. the houthi attacks threaten the international navigation and the maritime security in grave disrespect from international law, and they endanger the lives of the civilian crews, some of them already abducted, and create serious environmental and obvious economic risks. contrary to what the houthi leaders say, the attacks are of no help in addressing the war in gaza. in fact, they further destabilise the region and create increased risks for the populations. they also destabilise the world commerce, with effects that are already being felt in many regions in the world. we don’t need another factor to fuel a possible economic crisis. we therefore urge the houthis to immediately stop the attacks, and call on all parties to avoid further escalation in the region. we particularly want to tell directly to the iran regime: be on the right side for once, on the side of stability in your own region. we call on the member states to be meaningful and take immediate and concerted efforts to address these attacks if the houthis, of course, do not stop immediately. we need an effective operation in the red sea, with an executive mandate to ensure the naval security in the region. this should be built from close cooperation with the regional actors, but also with our international parties, many of them which are already acting on the ground. there is no more time for ambiguities. europe is a commercial stronghold in the world, but that also means we must protect our trade capacities. europe and the world are already suffering from the consequences of successive wars, and the spike on energy prices and inflation that came with it. people are dying by the thousands because of these wars. we cannot add the death or the abduction of the crews in the red sea, the destruction of our vessels, and the health of a good part of the world commerce to all the tragedies already taking place in front of us. the eu is a world player and should act as such, including, as the high representative referred recently, by enforcing the united nations security council resolution 2722, which reiterates that the states have the right to defend their vessels against these attacks in accordance to international law. let us show that we can act. we will act when threats to the international law arise, no matter where or by whom these threats come to reality.
madam president, mr prime minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i enjoyed hearing the prime minister's interview in which he said that new resources needed to be entered into the european union's budget. i would therefore like to know although i know that the belgian presidency has a reduced timeframe for decisionmaking to what extent the presidency is open to moving forward with the negotiation on the financial transaction rate, which is a decisive rate for the financing of the european union budget. but contrary to my colleague philippe lambert, i would like the belgian presidency to succeed in revising the rules of economic governance, so that the old rules do not come into force again and that future economic policies can be policies of growth, which protect citizens, which protect countries and which promote the competitiveness of the economy by rejecting austerity policies.
not all regions face the same challenges and not all regions have the same constraints, as for example the outermost regions, far from the continental shelf and with unique characteristics in their territory. unfortunately, economic, social and territorial disparities still persist in our european union and cohesion policy is the transformative engine for the development and convergence of regions. the discussion of the future of this policy after 2027, as well as the interim review of the 2030 territorial agenda, to be initiated by the belgian presidency of the council of the eu, should draw on the full potential and development opportunities of the regions without exception, promoting their integration. the creation of a programme such as a specific posei for transport, with the aim of improving mobility, would be a first step towards ensuring territorial cohesion. building an inclusive development bridge is essential to leaving no region behind.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister alexander de croo, welcome to the european parliament at the beginning of this term as president of the council. president-in-office of the council at a time of turmoil in europe and the world. the dramatic situation in palestine; the suffering of the families of israeli hostages at the hands of hamas; the war in ukraine, which has been going on for two years; the cost of living consequences affecting europeans. these are just a few examples of what awaits you as president of the european council this semester. i and the socialists & democrats in the european parliament wish you a good term of office, with these concerns always present. the tasks ahead of you are difficult, but essential.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to greet the minister on her first appearance towards the parliament, in which i gather it will be a lot. dear commissioner, vice president, colleagues, from the beginning of the war, the eu and its member states committed themselves to support ukraine as long as it takes, and our support ukraine’s independence, sovereignty and integrity has been unwavering. yet we are again at a defining moment. the fact is that ukraine is at a critical point in the war, with lack of weapons and ammunition, as they refer to constantly. and i would like to say even to michael gahler, it is under the leadership of chancellor scholz that germany is continuing to support ukraine, but a number of member states must deliver on their promises at this stage. the inability of the council to agree on the financing to ukraine is deeply concerning and disappointing, minister, and this is a message i’d like to convey directly to you, and the possibility of the us withdrawing their support is at least disturbing. ukrainians are fighting for their bare existence. their victory prevents us from fighting ourselves against a rogue imperialist state of putin that has no regard for the international law. they are fighting for their lives. we are fighting also in an existential moment of the european union.
mr president, mr commissioner, if we all choose the most environmentally friendly product, if we decide to repair it when it fails, instead of replacing it, we will contribute to a sustainable environment and influence the market to change with us. but we can only do this if the information available about the product is reliable, without trying to pass the wrong on. and we're only going to be able to repair the products if there's a place to do it and the parts are available. the rules we are going to adopt at european level serve precisely this purpose, to ensure that we can trust green labels and to let us know how easy it is to repair a product and whether parts are available. moreover, these rules will benefit the household budget. mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to thank the commission for its proposal and the rapporteur for her work.
in writing. this proposal was one of the initiatives set out in the new consumer agenda and the circular economy action plan and follows up on the european ecological pact. it aims to strengthen consumer rights by amending two directives at union level: the ddp directive 2005/29/ec1 and the consumer rights directive (cdp) 2011/83/eu2. the proposal amending the dpcd aims to prevent certain unfair commercial practices such as greenwashing, early obsolescence practices and the use of unreliable and opaque sustainability labels and information tools. the purpose of the update of the consumer products directive is to ensure that consumers can contribute to the ecological transition by better informing consumers about the environmental characteristics of products, their shelf life and their repair capacity. these necessary measures are clearly insufficient if the political will continues to be to promote markets and to accumulate profits at the expense of the environmental consequences that result.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, minister, commissioner, colleagues, as we speak, bombs keep falling in gaza. civilians are getting killed by the thousands. children are dying in this dreadful war. 24 000 deaths, 70% of them women and children, and the war keeps going. to have an idea of the proportion of this death toll, it is the equivalent to 5 million deaths if it were the eu population. yes, 5 million. half of my country’s population. much more than many of the european member states. how can this happen and still be considered a proportional response to the atrocities of hamas? as is well known, we condemned in the strongest possible terms the terrorist attacks of hamas. we did it back then, we will always condemn it, and call for the release of all hostages. hamas is a terrorist group that should be eliminated. no doubt about that. but the elimination of hamas cannot be done at any cost. civilians are not fighters. children are not terrorists. collective punishment, including famine and thirst, is not admissible. those responsible for terrorist acts and violations of international law and war crimes, all of them must be held to account. as always, we reiterate our strong support and trust on the international criminal court and the court of justice. no exceptions. the total destruction of gaza, the flattening of every inch to the ground will not bring peace or justice to the region, will not keep israel safer. the bloodshed must stop now. humanitarian aid must be allowed to access the entire gaza urgently. and an immediate and permanent ceasefire must be settled, which is the only thing that can pave the way for any viable solution. the occupation of the palestinian territories, including gaza, must end, and an independent palestinian state must be established following the spirit of the oslo accords. negotiation is the only way forward. war and violence can only bring death, more death. too many lives are already lost; it is time to stop.
israel has long since exceeded its right to self-defense in the face of the october 7 attack by hamas. what israel is doing is creating a huge legion of crippled, hungry, desperate people, parents and mothers without children, orphans, and generating hatred in the region, generating fear, insecurity, despair. my dear friends, i was in jordan at the end of december with a group of the delegation for relations with the countries of the greater jordan. i was able to witness the appalling effects of this conflict in the region, the instability facing the future in the region, and i was also able to witness the disbelief in our passivity in the face of everything that is happening. we have only one path, a sure path, a clear path, a clear path: a clear bet, a diplomacy for peace with a view to a ceasefire, the implementation of sanctions on settlers who, in the west bank and throughout palestine, are advancing violence without being stopped in any way.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, madam commissioner, in 2019, ecuador was one of the most peaceful and secure countries in latin america, with a murder rate of six deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. unfortunately, the ecuador we're talking about today is the most violent country in the region, with a rate six times higher than four years ago and plunged into a wave of violence due to drug trafficking, which culminated in the events in guaiaquil and the decision to decree a state of armed conflict to fight 22 drug trafficking groups that launch terror in the country. the situation is so serious that the government and the opposition have come together to find a solution. but it's not enough to have an inner connection. an effective response requires coordination between the various countries of the region. it is therefore very important that we follow and support the ministerial meeting of the andean community, which is being convened urgently to examine the impact on the neighbouring countries. cooperation is the key to making a difference in the fight against transnational organised crime and the fight against drug trafficking, which is the main source of funding for this whole problem. allow me, however, to leave a final warning. the security response that may be needed in this crisis cannot result in any abuse of security forces which indiscriminately compromises human rights and the pillars of the rule of law at the next stage of the crisis.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, council, dear president von der leyen, colleagues, i want to start by saying that whoever leads the council on its special meeting on the 1st of february needs to show enough strength and leadership to overcome the blackmail of orbán and deliver on the eu budget and the support to ukraine. europe is yet again at an existential moment. europeans are looking at us. european leaders need to show that they can actually be respected by our citizens and the whole world. who could tell that through this mandate, our geopolitical europe would indeed be tested so much? yes, we delivered in the vaccines altogether, but too many of them were sold to the developed world while the rest of the world was looking at us in agony. yes, we delivered with resolve to the ukrainians for these two years, including by opening the negotiations for accession just a month ago. but when the us are starting to falter, we are not yet filling the gap, even if it is our security, our values and our freedom that is being fought for on those fields. we are taking too long to create our own strategic autonomy in a world that is much more confrontational now. we are giving in to the blackmail of orbán, and all the bullies in europe are rejoicing with that. the europeans are suffering and the populists, they are laughing at it because they will grow from anger and frustration, turning suffering and fear into hatred. and now, at this critical moment, we are faced with a proposal to eventually start cutting our policies that can help those that are suffering to pay for the interests of next generation eu. we cannot do more, like helping ukrainians or all the correct priorities you identified, madam president, with less, at the cost of other policies like cohesion policy. europeans want fair transitions and better housing for all. they want to reinforce our social economic model, not to see it endangered by austerity policies imposed by the council. we will fight as a parliament for social convergence and sustainable investment in the new fiscal rules. the populists, the neo-fascists, the anti-europeans that now you worry about, mr weber, those are coming now out of every corner. they are raising their arms into the open air, fuelling from people’s frustrations. the europeans are asking us, where is brussels when we need it? this is a defining moment. europe needs to find strength and the will to fight hatred yet again.
i would like to begin by wishing the council good luck with the revision of the multiannual financial framework, because of its urgency and political relevance. we know orbán's veto, we know the agreement at 26. dear minister, orbán's veto is unacceptable. the new proposal that orbán puts on the table is not working. we can't, year after year, be reviewing the qfp. yes, because that's what the proposal leads us to. that would allow orbán to maintain permanent blackmail. the agreement 26 resolves the issue of ukraine and the adoption of a mechanism for ukraine is urgent, but it does not resolve other issues of great urgency increasing funding for migration, humanitarian aid, disaster relief or the european union's strategic autonomy as it does not resolve the issue of paying interest from the recovery fund. the proposal to build a waterfall for this purpose is innovative, but we risk cutting programmes like erasmus+ or cohesion or agriculture in the very near future, and this is rejected by the european parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner gentiloni, parliament reached a comprehensive agreement on the reform of economic governance in december. it is balanced, progressive and has a strong social dimension. thank you, esther of lange. thank you, shadow rapporteurs. we propose flexibility, more time to reduce debt. we reject new deficit targets. we reject new austerity policies. we propose budgetary and investment space for climate and digital transitions, defence and the european pillar of social rights. we propose greater appropriation for member states, better democracy, with a relevant role for national parliaments and social partners. these are some of the priorities that we will take to the negotiations, which will begin after the mandate is approved. the socialists and democrats, we are a responsible political family, a trusted partner, who goes to war. our group will fight to say no to austerity, and yes to investment. we will fight to have fiscal rules that promote growth and a strong social dimension. we will fight for the future of europe. we are not those parties that stay away from the discussion, ask for delays, refuse from day one any negotiations. we are not the parties that say they do not want austerity, but we are actually advocating a return to the old rules that will bring austerity back to europe. it is time to start working with the council and the commission to ensure that we have a credible budgetary framework in time to promote economic growth and employment. a monetary union, a single currency, cannot live without rules and take risks. finally, one point must be stressed: any of the proposals of the three institutions will always be better than a return to the old rules.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, when the process of revising the rules of economic governance was started, the commission promised that we would have new rules that would promote public investment, respect the sovereignty and democratic choices of european citizens. all misleading publicity. these rules have a set of criteria, but the most fundamental which guides the budgetary trajectories of countries is that of expenditure. i think that we should be able to do something about this. and above all, the rules do not have a single clause protecting massive public investment, which the commission says is necessary to respond to social problems and the climate challenge. the only thing that exists is an exception clause for deviations from the trajectory, which lacks the commission's authorization, which the commission will award at its discretion. it is not even very sensible to speak of new rules of economic governance, because what we have before us is only the granting of an unprecedented discretionary power to the european commission, which can impose trajectories on countries even when the trajectories proposed by governments meet the criteria set out in the rules. it can decide at its discretion which countries are entitled to the national exit clause, decide on the investment exemption in case of deviations, and it will also decide and this is very significant that when a government implementing austerity policies is defeated in the polls by its citizens, the next government is obliged to meet the same budgetary targets. we're talking about respect for democracy. do you want to know why the far right is growing in europe? look at these rules.
on behalf of the id group. mr president, as usual, the eu is opening up files, organising debates but doing nothing useful, especially for the french. the promotion of quality jobs is a striking example. 95 million people, or one in five europeans, are currently at risk of extreme poverty. the desperation of the population is such that shoplifting is on the rise, that now antibodies are found on meat pieces in stores. this debate shows your total disconnect from reality. 10% of european workers are poor workers. however, they have stable jobs, are often paid more than smic and have received training. yet, they cannot afford adequate shelter, adequate food, or even a shelter. a quality label according to european criteria will not change this. the resilience of our jobs and societies can only be considered at national level, with our own legislation, and certainly not in this chamber.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, in a context where attacks on workers' rights, wages and living conditions are increasing, the question of quality employment must necessarily be: the general and urgent increase in wages; the raising of labour rights and the strengthening of collective bargaining; the eradication of precariousness; the reduction of working hours without loss of remuneration; the fight against irregularity and the promotion of reconciliation between personal, family and professional life; the realisation of the rights of parents or guardians and of children. the imposition of the european union, through its various instruments, the use of arguments to strengthen the so-called social market economy or the need to increase competitiveness, has been synonymous, in my country and over the years, with social regression, the destruction of the incomes and rights of the working class, mass immigration. we are not in agreement with the socialist views of the european semester and economic governance. you can't have sun in the hay and rain in the napkins. in other words, we cannot want to end poverty and social exclusion, promote general wage increases, ensure a public network of free and universal daycare centres, end the scourge of youth and longterm unemployment, ensure affordable housing and a decent life for our elderly, while advocating the intensification of the policies that shape their implementation and the draconian rules of the euro. needs are perennial. wages are raised, collective bargaining is strengthened, labour rights are raised.
mr president, decent wages, lower taxes and quality jobs are what we want for europe and what we want for each of our countries. a social market economy requires economic growth based on innovation and knowledge, improved working conditions and poverty reduction. education is essential for this. in the age of artificial intelligence and digitalization, we cannot ignore the most important trends in science and technology. europe cannot make mistakes like those we have seen in portugal. recently, the pisa 2022 report reveals a worrying decline in students' skills, especially in math and reading. the socialist government fails especially to the disadvantaged students and has compromised their performance and their future. we need a new paradigm in education, one that is future-oriented, for social mobility and for quality employment. there's a lot to do. in portugal, the change is about to happen.
madam president, commissioner, throughout europe, in germany, yesterday in toulouse, france, tractors are marching to show the outrage of the agricultural world and to show that we are walking on our heads. walking on their heads was also what the young farmers in france wanted to show by turning the signs of towns and villages around. so instead of improving land access and making the profession more attractive to young farmers, we are now witnessing an avalanche of new rules supported by those who are committed to punitive ecology and there are some in this european parliament. the choice is simple. the choice we have today is either to support a decline model that aims to produce less to fight climate change, or to choose to produce more to produce better, to use innovation and new technologies to ensure our food security that food security that is supported by the agricultural world. i am clearly in the camp of those who trust farmers.
madam president, commissioner, farmers across europe and in my country romania need the support of the european union. you have to get off the ivory tower and talk directly to the farmers and the people who live in the countryside. you can't impose things on them without talking to them. farming without farmers doesn't exist. i have requested, as responsible for the european budget, additional funds for agriculture and the rural environment. we've got tens of millions of euros, but the need is much greater. unfortunately, there was not enough support for this area. you, including you, as a representative of the anti-european conservative group of which the aur party is a member in romania, are responsible for this failure. through the petition #romanianfarmers witheuropeans, officially recognised by the european parliament, we have been exposing the farmers' work in romania since last summer. one of the requirements was that the subsidy received be equal at european level. we must support the modernisation of agriculture and support young farmers and all those living in rural areas more. we want a decent life for european farmers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, european farmers have been the favourite target of the green taliban in the timmermans cabinet. we must also be aware that the commission is not in a position to take any further action. it will affect the competitiveness and profitability of our businesses; it will force us to import more and more from far less sustainable third countries than we do; it will penalize our quality products, already threatened by nutri-score and counterfeiting; it'll pave the way for synthetic food and insect meal. a big favour to the food lobby and those who seek the cancellation of every specificity and identity, even at the table. today farmers go to the streets in the middle of europe to say enough about this drift. despite the late regrets of certain policies, farmers know perfectly well who attacked them, who betrayed them, who defended them from day one and who will continue to do so from 10 june onwards.
the german protests this week remind me of the 2700 tractors that came to brussels last year. it was a clear signal at the time that european environmental commitments were leading to a standstill in flemish agriculture and horticulture. just in those places where the soil gives us the most yield. it is precisely where europe can best ensure its food security. it is there that farmers feel the most constrained in their business. the cumulative effect of a lack of appreciation, structural lower wages, unprecedented uncertainty in licensing and well-intentioned environmental legislation that in practice falls to the necks of individual farmers is rightly a cause for much dissatisfaction. moreover, we are investing too little in important functions in rural areas. this results in a decline in public transport, more expensive energy for the people there, or, for example, the abandonment of local facilities such as schools or doctors. commissioner, the most important strategic thing is to produce our own food, not just our own microchips and our own medicines or our own cars. it is time we put food security on the agenda and give the farmers the recognition they deserve. in words, in deeds, in pennies.
madam president, the farmers' protests and the agricultural crisis in germany and other parts of europe echo in my home in brittany, where our farmers have been struggling for many years. the lessons of recent years are clear: our current trajectory impoverishes farmers and weakens rural areas. over-industrialisation, the over-concentration of agriculture are not the lasting answers. the funds available must be redirected to key priorities: polyagriculture, supporting the ecological transition and agro-environmental and climate measures, and above all significantly increasing the number of farms. the departures must no longer be an opportunity to expand existing holdings but must facilitate the creation of new farms. we must adopt an approach that values the asset and we must regionalise the second pillar of the cap, because it is at local level that we will make more effective and appropriate decisions. it is time to abandon policies that have already shown their limits.
mr president, madam president, i would like to say thank you, dear leftists, for not being here – because i haven’t seen any leftists when dutch farmers protested, i haven’t seen any leftists when german farmers are protesting and i can’t see any in this chamber, not many right now. because you are responsible for this madness. you are responsible for this mess with the farmers’ state of their pockets at the moment. you are the ones responsible! but there’s one voice of dissent in the european commission. mr commissioner, i’d like to thank you for your stand against this political madness. i’d like to thank you for your decisions. there is no problem with the transition of the ukrainian grain, but we are responsible for our own citizens. we are responsible for our own nations. we are responsible for the european union. so we know how important it is to help ukraine. but we have to take care of our own citizens. so i would like to thank you, mr commissioner, for your wise policy. i’d like to say thank you and i’d like to say that i’m very proud today for being polish, because poland saved european farmers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we must value, we must support the farmers. they are the ones who produce high-quality food, respecting the highest environmental and food safety standards. we cannot burden farmers with red tape, meaningless rules, impossible demands, as many colleagues here in the european parliament have approved and defended, and now they are intervening here in what appear to be farmers' best friends. and this hypocrisy is unacceptable just because there are elections. we have to listen to the farmers, we have to involve the farmers. is there a transition that is necessary? we have to be involved and we will not be able to make any change against the farmers. and this change must always be gradual, allowing better wages for farmers, respecting farmers and the rural world.
- madam president, please! mr. commissioner, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please. last spring, as a farmer's gardener, i joined the slovenian farmers in the protest. and you know who they were protesting against? against the stupidity of slovenian agricultural policy and against the stupidity of brussels. farmers are frustrated, they feel guilty, and they're accused of destroying nature, poisoning people. soon they will be charged with the extinction of dinosaurs. i am sure that the commission will be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the agricultural sector is fully integrated into the community. i'm glad that some of us have succeeded in stopping the pesticide regulation, which would be very harmful. the number of farms is declining. young farmers are not choosing careers and threaten to jeopardize food sovereignty. but food shortages, and, no, no sovereignty in this area, can prove critical, as energy has proved critical. the slovenian president organized a forum on agriculture and there was a conclusion: nothing about a farmer without a farmer. let us hope that the european parliament will reach such a conclusion. (the speaker will answer the question asked by raising a blue card. )
the answer to the question posed by raising a blue card. thank you for this question and i can say with confidence that i have also spoken a lot as a european member about farmers, the common agricultural policy proposed by commissioner wojciechowski and commissioner hogan. but when the agenda for the discussion of the farm to fork proposals, which commissioner timmermans has prepared and advocated, came up, we decided together that this was a big foolishness that would destroy agriculture. but farmers are aware of, support and are part of the changes that the farm to fork strategy also requires. but they are not willing to accept unrealistic, unrealistic proposals that would jeopardize their income, and in particular their sovereignty, european food sovereignty and consumer protection.
madam president, there are protests now in romania, of farmers, there are protests throughout the european union and people are right. people can't and don't want to suffer quietly anymore. i'm doing very well! what do they say? the government tells them there's no money. that's a big lie! how come there's no money? there's a lot of money. there are billions and billions of people leaving the european union, going to countries like romania. they're told that nothing can be done - another big lie! it can be done, but you have to look at the citizens, the average farmers. what's the real problem? the people who are put there to make decisions, the people who make decisions for themselves and their party friends, who make millions, just them with their comrades, and who make combinations. don't give up, folks, who are on the street, because that's the only way you're going to get the rights you're really entitled to. because it's money, only if they steal everyone, obviously it's left to no one but them. don't give up, stay on the street until you get your rights!
madam president, it is time to thank farmers for having something to eat every day, and also for being the ones who are ensuring food security for the future. we're aware of the problems they're facing. to ensure food security and the interest of the young generation in agriculture, we must address the problems, the socioeconomic impacts they face, and above all, the income of farmers, their economic prospects and security. we must also address the protection and availability of agricultural land, and we must break down unnecessary bureaucracy at national and european level. and i would like to call on the commissioner once again to propose an amendment to the legislation which would allow for flexibility in the conditions of gaec 8. it can be adopted quickly and reduce bureaucracy and enable our farmers to function.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the title of the debate, you see that it is a great hypocrisy. the council is not present, but why did we choose this topic? because europe is hot, because farmers are on the streets. the commissioner has not presented any solution to us, although the title is the commission's statement on improving the economic and social situation of farmers. commissioner, did a colleague of the party praise you, please tell me in your answers, what are the concrete measures to improve the situation of farmers? we all go home, i go to my country. what do i tell farmers who have been on the streets for a week, cold and hungry? what do we tell them? you said you couldn't make a reservation anymore that the crisis reserve was over, that you couldn't make a waiver anymore. so you said only what you can't. i want to go home with a clear answer from the commission, because we have and have asked you once again, commissioner, to amend the common agricultural policy. it is not a common agricultural policy as long as the subsidies are different. please give us concrete answers so that we can tell the people at home what the commission is going to do in the agricultural field.
mrs president, the difficulties faced by farmers in portugal are worsening in a context where prices of the factors of production are very high. in the algarve, the drought situation is worrying and threatens agricultural activity. in the centre, corn and rice producers and despite the low prices paid for production cannot compete with imported cereals. and the lack of drainage and storage space are concrete problems. milk producers see the price per liter, paid to production, lower than the production price and, as industry and distribution crush prices, producers accumulate losses. despite the urgent response that the grave situation demands, another cap is needed, ensuring: food sovereignty for each state; support for small and medium-sized farmers and family farming; fair prices for production and improving the incomes of producers; market regulation mechanisms; sustainable agricultural practices respecting biodiversity and the environment; food security and quality accessible to all; and the principle of national preference, importing only what is necessary.
madam president, exactly one year ago we discussed here in this house the authoritarian drift carried out by the mitsotakis government. this debate was very much focused at the time on the pegasus case, and from then until today we have seen little evolution, no evolution. on the contrary. we have been watching the use of espionage mechanisms against political actors, activists, journalists. we continue to witness abusive prosecutions against journalists and we continue to witness the crushing of independent media in greece. there are levels of violations of the rule of law, of freedoms and guarantees which we cannot combine in the european union. the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of workers' rights. and so what we have to do now is actually a serious, persistent and consistent assessment so that cases and derivatives like the one we recorded in hungary are avoided. the experience of time, the lessons learned should make us block the authoritarian paths we are witnessing.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has been faced with a rise in the prices of basic goods and energy which has led to an insurmountable situation for small businesses and poverty for european families. misguided decisions during the pandemic and an energy strategy that has prioritized completely ideologized environmental goals have led us to scarcity and to dependence on third countries. this crisis was not only perfectly preventable, but has also been warned by our group throughout this mandate. we have seen with despair how he persists in the same mistakes. the only prospect that would have prevented this situation is the common sense perspective. many european households do not reach the end of the month, and merely assessing which collective is most affected by this crisis does not solve it. we need energy sovereignty so that each member state can achieve a mix that guarantees us generous autonomy at a reasonable price for all. the decisions of this house are partly responsible for making this not the case. on 9 june europeans will be able to choose between common sense and ideology.
on behalf of the id group. the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the right to a fair trial. we recognize the rise in prices and the problem of inflation, but we are equally determined to reject the use of the energy crisis as an opportunity to promote gender ideology, preferring that the document address the economic and energy challenges facing women and families in europe in a concrete and realistic way. the report's critical points involve the constant emphasis on the gender perspective and, in addition, the request for the appointment of a european gender coordinator. the creation of this new figure, accompanied by staff and additional funding, would lead to a burden on european bureaucracy which has only a political and ideological purpose but which would not be an effective solution to the energy problem. finally, it is noted that important and impactful issues in real life and in everyday life have been used for supranational intervention in the regulation of real estate markets and public housing. although some proposals are shared, the exposure to ideological elements prevents us from supporting the report.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, the brutal rise in the cost of living particularly penalizes women: they are the majority of the unemployed and workers with poor links; they have lower wages and pensions; they constitute the majority of single-parent families and the population affected by poverty. the lack of structural measures to counter these trends has made existing inequalities worse. the price increase in essential goods - food, housing, energy and telecommunications - must be stopped and requires measures to protect women and families in serious difficulties, as opposed to the astronomical profits of the large economic groups. measures are needed to address the problems faced by women, but also their aspirations, to defend their rights and promote equality: the right to work with rights; to combat precariousness and the general increase in wages and pensions; to regulate the prices of essential goods, including energy, which must be considered an essential good and, in order to be accessible to all, must return to the public sphere; to strengthen transport, education and health services by providing quality and free healthcare to all; and to promote women's sexual and reproductive rights; to promote the increase of public housing; to prevent the spread of speculation; and to reverse the increase in interest rates, which the european central bank insists on keeping high. measures for which we will continue to fight, because they are necessary, urgent and possible.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has been very proud of the fact that europe has been a great country in all areas of human activity: science, art, etc. our universities have been a universal reference. today, however, we see a decline. we see how our young people and professionals, despite being well trained, do not find recognition within our borders and many must leave to have room for development... the so-called talent leak. in 2023 the european year of competences, only the need to address job profiles gaps in line with the objectives of ideological agendas, agendas that aim to impose a transformation on us, has been shown. this shows the scarcity of interests that are being worked with and how the concerns and vocations of europeans are not being addressed. this shortsighted view impoverishes people's spirit, limiting our freedom of decision and execution, at a time when the opposite should be enhanced: our capacity for initiative, to want to participate, to excel, to be creative and innovative in the generation of prosperity. we'll regain our confidence in ourselves. we find the deep motivation in each of us, the one we need to drive our lives forward, to contribute to the common good of our society and to build a future of hope. let us take advantage of our cultural heritage, faith and traditions that have enabled us to reach our greatest fulfillment as human beings.
on behalf of the left group. madam president, as the european year of competences draws to a close, you should take stock of what this initiative has done for the so-called competences. the same as the european year of youth did not for the youth? or that the european year of rail transport did not do for the railways? the answer to all of them will be far from what the propaganda announced and what reality needed. we move away from this commercial view of qualifications, which are seen as mere tools to meet the needs of the large employers, and it is to the extent of these needs that qualifications are designed and implemented. we are moving away from the idea of active ageing, which is only fuelling pressure to reduce entitlements and raise the retirement age. and we argue that what is imposed is the right to age with rights and dignity. what is needed is fair and dignified labour rights and wages, which correspond to the professional qualifications of workers and the knowledge gained over their lives.
author. madam president, the repressive machine of xi jinping, in his battle for iron control of everything and everyone, is not immune from anything and even religious practice is not immune to the chinese regime's persecution. besides wanting to define the legality of religious activities, beijing seeks to redesign religions by aligning them with the ideology of the chinese communist party and promoting loyalty to supreme leader xi. the case of ding yuande is one more among many others, suffocated over the years in china, of falun gong practitioners a completely harmless practice and that in no way harms any kind of interest. the european union cannot be complicit, by silence or complacency, in such cases. we therefore demand the immediate and unconditional release of this prisoner, as well as all falun gong practitioners and other victims of arbitrary detention, and respect for the rights of ethnic and religious minorities in china. we cannot tolerate this kind of practice. in addition, the european union and the member states should support an international investigation into cases of organ harvesting and torture and inhuman and degrading treatment in china.
question by the blue card procedure. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. but i wanted to talk a little bit about the answer. by the way, i said the mayor of muros is here. we wanted to know if there was any support from the galician government, because in the portuguese press there were reports that the cleanup was being done by the town halls, by environmental activists, by sailors, but with very little support from the galician government, and i wanted to confirm if this is the reality.
mr president, an accident that could not have happened has happened. a freighter lost, near the coast of the iberian peninsula, more than a thousand bags of small plastic, known as pellets, that have been washing up on the coast, especially in northern spain, in galicia, since the beginning of this year. this was an accident which neither the portuguese government, nor the regional government of galicia, nor the national government of spain could have prevented. but what defines us all, but particularly those who take political and decision-making positions, is how we respond to adversity. the portuguese government, in a rare case of effectiveness, has been prepared to inform the spanish government. the socialist government, pedro sánchez's psoe, decided to play with the situation and ignored the warning. it is therefore not surprising that the psoe is trying to whitewash its responsibility. it is, in a dilapidated, incompetent, foolish way, trying to hold the regional government of galicia accountable, after having belittled and even ignored the problem, when the regional government is the only one truly concerned about minimizing this environmental issue. the intervention at sea is the responsibility of the national government, not the regional government as they want to be. sánchez and his government must, if they have any political dignity, apologize, apologize to everyone, but especially to the galicians, for their incapacity and, worse, for the environmental damage that their political paralysis is causing. it is also curious that when we call for a debate on the rule of law in spain we are accused of being a national debate, and here we are debating a regional issue.
mr president, the tide of plastic pellets affecting the western coast of the iberian peninsula, and particularly galicia, could lead us to a discussion on the local reaction to such an accident. i think the situation is more about those who discuss who saw or when he told rather than focusing on collaborating to apply the lessons learned after the prestige disaster. in the basque coast, the public-private partnership strategy itxas ertza is trying to do this between the fishing fleet, the authorities and scientific institutes. that debate is local and can contaminate the european debate, which is mandatory here. we need to focus on preventing and preventing new leaks. we need the international maritime organization to classify this material as dangerous and to push for mandatory measures at that level on its transport conditions and control. from the ground up, the plastic industry has an obligation to apply technology and innovation to find alternatives to pellets. we are faced with another challenge: we have already regulated the expiry of single-use plastics; we have set deadlines for the transport of this material in future in formats that, in the event of dumping, can be collected and controlled.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this point and this tragedy, which unfortunately happened in galicia and which is also present on the portuguese coast, demonstrate a positive role for the european union. and here we often see the far right blaming everything: the globalists, the lack of action of the european union. but it is worth noting that the european union, and in particular the european institutions, have made their way, have done their job: not only legislative here in parliament but also at international level, to ensure that the entire production and distribution chain of these dangerous goods is effectively effective and that we can respond to these precise emergencies. i would also like to stress the role of the european maritime safety agency, which was set up about two decades ago with the tragedy of prestige and which also demonstrates the european union's willingness, as a whole and globally, to tackle these phenomena. and here, the far right, once again, comes here, makes two or three clips for youtube and tik tok and then goes out and basically blames everything and some more, and then doesn't stay here to answer even a single question.
mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this disaster brings back the bad memory of the tragic accident of the prestige 20 years ago. once again, the reckless action of humans is causing an environmental crisis in these territories, and this catastrophe will have serious consequences and not only for the affected communities. and contrary to what member lidia pereira says, this is not a regional problem. this is a european matter. as rapporteur, i am looking forward to revising the directive which lays down rules for pollution from ships, advocating tougher sanctions for polluters and closer monitoring, and the competent authorities should provide for an environmental impact assessment of these disasters and the implementation of preventive measures to prevent future environmental disasters. a final word of solidarity with galicia and our galician brothers and those who work tirelessly to mitigate the consequences of this catastrophe.
i would like to congratulate the presidency on the agreement reached on the revision of the european union's multiannual budget and on the agreement to set up a mechanism for ukraine within the european union's budget. it is the only way to respect the powers of the european parliament, the unity of the budget, transparency, democracy. but, commission, council, we need explanations and to reverse the cuts in programmes such as research and health, both essential to deepen the european union's strategic autonomy and to protect citizens. either in cohesion, or in funding farmers. everyone is talking about supporting farmers, but can we accept cap cuts? we refuse to pay the costs of the debt at the expense of european programme cuts. the introduction of new own resources, we all know, is urgent. what has been agreed is not enough to get the results that european citizens expect. and the european parliament needs that to give its consent. trust in the european union is achieved through communication, debate, listening to citizens, but above all through results.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, madam president of the commission, madam president of the council of the european union, colleagues, two years of this war, more than 700 days of suffering in ukraine. in each of these days, people were killed, children lost their lives or their parents, families were destroyed by the brutal attacks of russia. in each of these more than 700 days, the brave ukrainian people stood against one of the most powerful armies in the world, showing their courage and their will. but make no mistake, courage and determination can only do so much, we know that. ukrainians need the ammunition and they need the financial support to win the war. the ukraine facility is long overdue. minister, the mff review is still not there. we should have come to this moment proclaiming that we are with the ukrainians in every single day of the war with an agreement on the mff review, and the money is still not there. so i please ask you, to the council, to the presidency of the council, there is a message that needs to be clear: trilogues are not monologues. this parliament does not accept this idea on the economic governance, on the mff review, that the trilogue is simply a monologue. so please bring back that message, because we need an agreement. we need rapidly to have an agreement to support the ukrainians so that our proclamations are followed by the money that we have promised them and that is still lacking. let us deliver on this fight for liberty, let us agree rapidly on our support to ukraine.
madam president, we believe that all organisms derived from genetic engineering processes must be subjected to a risk assessment before they can be released, grown or consumed as food. and that's what the law is for! we reject this regulation on new genomic techniques because it is not needed. there is already legislation to regulate genetically modified organisms. we don't need legislation to liberalise them. since 2015, 17 governments have already banned the cultivation of genetically modified organisms and we argue that it should be up to the states to reject these products on their territory. small and medium-sized farmers should be guaranteed the right to produce at fair prices. consumers should be guaranteed the right to choose. we have already voted against the introduction of genetically modified products into the markets of the member states. the commission is now on the road to liberalization and deregulation. we know who they want to please and who they want to please at the expense of who they want to please, and so we reject him.
mr president, europe is ahead of any other power in the fight against climate change. we have done more than anyone else, but this result is largely due to people, europeans, our companies, because emissions reductions are not made by decree. and now they're asking us for an additional effort: that the overwhelming majority of the reduction effort, 90%, be done by 2040. but the effort to safeguard the planet cannot be done by europe alone. and while we can assess the feasibility of this goal, we need a europe that demands more from the rest of the world, demands more from the united states, demands more from india, demands more from china. we must be all or all our efforts will be futile or useless. so, yes, we're going to keep ambition high, but we're going to demand more from our other counterparts, because we're not going to solve the problem alone. and in the meantime, here in europe, we need to invest more in carbon capture and removal. we need to invest more in our industrial competitiveness, in clean technologies and in fair trade and competition.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, very few territories can say that they are not yet suffering any consequences of climate change. the reports produced by the ipcc are not encouraging. global warming will intensify sea level rise, increase the frequency of extreme weather events, among many effects on human health and, it is reported, also loss of agricultural production. reducing global temperatures by one and a half degrees is still a possible goal, but it is also a goal that is becoming increasingly distant. a set of concrete measures must be taken to reduce or prevent greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. and for that, changes in the transport sector, more efficient buildings and more investment in clean energy are urgent. and to the right, listen to the scientists. and if that doesn't work for you, populism, then listen to the young people.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, this debate, also on the initiative of the members of the cpp in the european parliament, aims to raise the alarm once again about the recurrent drought and extreme drought in some regions and countries, particularly portugal. the people, the farmers and the irrigators with whom we have been, whether in alvor, armamar, arraiolos, montemor or elsewhere in the country, demand concrete measures to mitigate the effects of drought and prepare for the future. it is these claims that we give voice to. the need for real and significant investment in water storage infrastructure and reservoirs, enhancing better use, as well as support for traditional irrigation. the need for water management that hierarchizes use in scarcity situations, ensuring domestic use, food production, in industry and only later for other purposes. access, use and safeguarding of water resources must be ensured by public management and ownership. access to water is a right and should not be a business, even more desirable in situations of scarcity or drought.
mr president, one of the causes of drought in the algarve will undoubtedly be the advent of climate change. however, this is not the only reason why we are witnessing a water disaster in this region today. the fact is that the common agricultural policy has established criteria for granting subsidies and support for ecosystem services and the sustainable nature of agricultural holdings. however, in portugal, subsidies continue to go only to large producers, including intensive monocultures, which are incompatible with the characteristics of the territory. on the contrary, small farmers continue to see, both from the point of view of subsidies and subsidies and from the point of view of access to water, while the current government implements measures, blind cuts in water use, which are profoundly unfair and ineffective from the environmental point of view. we need a more responsible fund policy that takes a serious look at the territories and the most sustainable forms of agriculture.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, it was ten years ago that the european council adopted a resolution on internships within the european union. this resolution is not binding and therefore many member states have continued exactly the same practices, which means that outside europe there are young people who continue to have to live at the expense of their families while gaining experience because they are not paid for the traineeships they can get. those who do not have families that can support this initial career path have to give up their projects and the investment they have made in their qualifications. ten years after this council resolution, parliament finally succeeded in adopting a proposal for a directive to prohibit unpaid traineeships and ensure that they have an effective training quality. it would be a tremendous disappointment if the european commission and the council did not respond positively to this challenge by making a directive that is really binding and not a new resolution, ten years later, now disguised as a pseudodirective.
mr president, four out of five young people in the european union have completed an internship to enter the labour market. in addition, in portugal, companies employ more than half of the trainees they host. these data demonstrate the importance of stages for young people's early career. but you can do better, much better. as we know, many stages are limited to administrative or low-level tasks, experiences that do not contribute to the professional development of our young people. we need to make sure that clear rules of internship are properly recorded. we need internships to have clear learning objectives. we need young people to have access to transparent information about remuneration. but more needs to be done for the youth job as a whole. recent eurostat data indicate that portugal is the second most youth unemployed country in the european union. and worse, many young workers with very low wages who cannot afford to pay the rent of a house to live in, and as a result, one in three young portuguese people only see one way out: emigration. there is widespread frustration among young europeans with their living conditions and governments are not responding to them. it is time for national and european political leaders to present answers to young people and put their concerns at the heart of political action. the elections of june 9 are an opportunity to move from words to actions.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, the purpose of this debate, in line with the agenda of the united states of america and the venezuelan extreme right, is to try to interfere once again in the electoral processes of the bolivarian republic of venezuela. we recall the shameful recognition of juan guaidó as the president-in-office, the unacceptable support for coup attempts, organized armed operations from abroad, the imposition of sanctions and a cruel economic blockade, an illegal blockade and theft of venezuela's assets abroad, among other measures that disrespect and aggress the venezuelan people. when will the european parliament, so concerned about the venezuelan people, demand the end of the unilateral coercive measures imposed by the united states of america, which are contrary to international law? when will the european parliament demand the end of the intervention operations against venezuela, as exemplified by the recent report on the deployment of us dea agents to destabilize that country? for our part, we reaffirm our solidarity with the struggle of the venezuelan people in defence of their right to decide, free from external interference, on their path of development and social progress.
mr president, commissioner, when i was in venezuela at the european union election mission in 2021, what i heard most from civil society was a huge desire to participate in elections, not boycott them, and express their protest through them. to respond to this legitimate and democratic aspiration, elections must be free and there will only be free elections in venezuela when the disqualification of potential candidates who oppose the regime, such as corina machado, henrique capriles and many others, ceases to be an instrument to prevent electoral competition. it would be desirable that the barbados agreement, but also the recommendations of the 2021 electoral mission, be followed, in particular the abolition of the administrative prerogative of the office-general which allows citizens to be deprived of the right to contest elections. we will continue to press for this, putting an end to the long political and social crisis that we have also seen the venezuelan people suffer for too long.
mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that the global gateway has been instrumental in the development of infrastructure in various parts of the world. i would like to pay particular attention to latin america, where we have more than 130 investment projects focused primarily on the development of digital infrastructure and sustainability. as i have heard from the other side, it is important, however, to simplify and facilitate these processes so that this initiative can be easier to understand and use by our partners. we must also ensure that these partnerships help us to go through the difficult paths of the two transitions, the climate and the digital, not only with convergent regulation, for example on artificial intelligence or forest protection, but also with the same basic conditions on both sides, for example in connection, so that digital technologies do not deepen inequalities but instead reduce them.
on behalf of the left group. mr president, this report is an attempt to give increasing weight to unregulated finance and capital markets, to the detriment of regulated and capitalized banking. in fact, this trend is combined with the tendency to bind states and their capacity to promote public investment, fuelling the illusion that an increasingly unregulated and increasingly volatile financial system could compensate for the disappearance of a strategically meaningful state. this proposal has real aberrations when it determines that funds can have huge and unprecedented levels of leverage and that they can even lend to a single borrower up to 20% of their capital, meaning that failure by a single borrower can lead to the bankruptcy of an investment fund. it is an irresponsible proposal, in the line of financial deregulation that has already produced disastrous results in the past and will continue to produce disastrous results in the near future.
mr president, the teaching profession is in crisis because we are failing to attain and retain enough talented and motivated professionals. in my country, in the 80s, we set up a language immersion model to normalise scotland after the years of persecution under franco’s dictatorship. this very ambitious project attracted thousands of bright young graduates, especially women, that were the bedrock of our schools for three decades. this internationally recognised model is now in crisis, not least because of the vicious attack of the spanish nationalists, and our education system is deteriorating even more than in comparable countries. those great teachers, the founding mothers of catalan schools, have retired and now, when the job is the most challenging, the new generation does not have the qualifications or the incentives to become, as their predecessors, the backbone of our society. my prescription to governments everywhere is to tackle the education crisis with the same for the catalan government: be ambitious, be courageous, demand more of your teachers, train them properly. give them more in return: more pay, more respect – people will follow.
mr president, honourable commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, teachers are key players in education. they decide whether children have a good relationship with school, learning, and life. john amos komensk, the teacher of nations, said that the school should be a part of humanity. this is true today as it was more than three hundred years ago, but teachers are much more demanded today as society changes. and that is why teachers need to be adequately motivated and financially valued the 150% that belongs to them, the 150% level of wages compared to the average in the social wage valuation, that is the basis from which we cannot back down but also socially. and what can we do at eu level? we should support member states in preparing these conditions for teachers. the european union has the erasmus programme, the commissioner mentioned it here, and i think our aim should be to make it possible for every future teacher to benefit from the erasmus programme. i even think he should have used the capacity of this programme to make it sufficient for every future teacher to have experience of the european union's education system for his professional growth and building european cohesion.
mr president, commissioner, quality education is the engine of the european union, the engine of equal opportunities. it is a motor that only works by putting teachers in the place they deserve in society and by offering dignified working conditions. as a professor, it's my duty to defend the rights of our collective. we are the future generations and therefore the future of the european project. we must ensure optimal working conditions and adequate remuneration for all teachers. only if we increase the interest in teaching will we improve the quality and alleviate the teacher shortage affecting some territories. one of the dimensions of the european education area is precisely the teachers, trainers and educational staff. it's a project that should give them more opportunities, but it will only do so if we get its real implementation in 2025. the date is approaching. together with students, teachers and educators, we must be at the centre of education policies. the classroom should be the hub. the european union is also built from the ground up, with teachers who defend and convey european values, teachers who must have decent working conditions.
mr. speaker, what is this? a good school system is based on competent and committed teachers who are allowed to focus on the needs of their students. first, we must move away from overwhelming administration and unnecessary bureaucracy. the second is that the resources should be used to support the students and the school and not be allowed to go into the pockets of private companies. sweden is currently the only country in europe to allow the proceeds from the publicly funded school. control, administration, inflation has followed in its footsteps. of course, you can have a choice in school without private interests and venture capital firms. we therefore, social democrats, believe that democratic control of schools must be restored. we're going to raise the status of teachers, raise the knowledge of students. so we social democrats also raised the salaries of government teachers. we strengthened the quality of training and increased opportunities for skills development. we know that teachers are doing a great job today, but they need even better opportunities to accomplish this important task. the commission has already decided to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the implementation of the programme. one thing is for sure. to succeed, we cannot be allowed to have private interests in the school. that's not where it belongs.
the president, mrs. commissioner. quality education by qualified teachers is integral to the social and economic strength of the european union and its future. however, unfortunately, in almost all member states, including my country lithuania, teacher shortages remain high and are a long-term problem that will only increase in the future because of insufficient strategic action. we are very much in favour of strategies for teacher renewal, of ways to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession. teacher salaries are actually far too low, there is in fact no financial or other incentive to make it more attractive for young teachers to work in the regions. less and less young people are taking up the teaching profession. we are committed to a systematic teacher excellence training, particularly in the context of continuous professional development. the european education area must ensure quality education for all, and we need a common european union strategy. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card)
answer to the question raised with the blue card. thank you for your question. first of all, i want to say that i really don't know what the education system is in poland. however, i can say that a common european union education area is necessary first of all to ensure that there is no incoherent education in all the member states of the european union, that there is sufficient funding for teachers, that the teaching profession is respected enough to actually take into account what the european union needs as a whole in its future. therefore, it is only by taking the example of one country or another, by evaluating the situation in each country, that we can have quality education throughout the european union.
- mr. president, what are you doing? - nice to meet you. i still remember the words of my latin teacher and history teacher at high school, who said, saying a proverb: "those who are hated by the gods, they make them teachers". it is a latin or greek proverb, i do not know for sure, but it did not deter me from becoming a teacher myself, and i have enjoyed this profession for 20 years, as have many of my colleagues. but today's teachers face many new challenges. they need new skills for new careers. and here i see the role of the european union support for teacher education programmes. and then there's the growing educational issues, which my colleagues have already listed, also because of the influence of social media. and here we as lawmakers can do a lot. so, our society will only succeed if we have well-educated teachers who are content and committed to their profession. and the latin saying is, "knowledge is power".
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, like the last speaker, i am a former schoolteacher and can personally attest to the challenging but incredibly rewarding nature of the teaching profession. however, the rising cost of living, long commutes and rising populations have led to a teacher retention crisis across the european union. a recent survey carried out by the teachers’ union of ireland showed 64% of schools have unfilled vacancies, and another by the association of secondary teachers ireland (asti) showed 75% of schools surveyed received no applications for teaching posts advertised. this is affecting the most vulnerable and special education disproportionately. free school books for the junior cycle and the public sector pay agreement are very welcome, but i would encourage the irish government to engage with unions on disputes about incremental payments for teachers returning from abroad. ireland performs extremely well on pisa surveys, and such engagement would be a practical recognition of that performance.
mr president, one of the biggest problems facing teachers in portugal is the divestment of public schools, which jeopardizes access to constitutionally enshrined education. we are talking about thousands of teachers and child educators who, from north to south of the country, have been confronted with multiple problems: divestment in teacher training, devaluation of teaching careers, precariousness and the pattern of itineration that forces thousands of professionals to move every year to hundreds of miles away without any support. the situation is not now. he's decades old and he's responsible. the fight against precariousness and the provision of attractive and future-oriented careers with appropriate remuneration and advances are imperative. teachers must be respected and valued, with careers, adequate working conditions, recognition of service time and an end to precariousness. linking is essential for the stabilisation of the teaching staff and for the dignification of their work. teachers are needed every day in schools and their bond must be effective. we're with them in this fight.
