mr president, mr commissioner, mr rapporteur, i will move the discussion tonight more to the lives of people and science, because i am a doctor, emergency physician in iasi, romania, at the nicolae oblu emergency clinic hospital and i can tell you that i come from the most polluted city in romania, on the european statistics of the european medicines agency. we, the outsiders, inhale poison and breathe cancer, so i think it's time to step in before it's too late, because people's lives are the most important thing. mr president, mr commissioner, i hope we all support this move, because if there is no health, then nothing is, and all these steps that we take beyond ideology, beyond economics, should be for people's lives. i hope that we will understand once and for all that we here in the european parliament can do good for the european union, and you can come to iasi, my hometown. i've been in the emergency department for over 25 years and i continue to work at the nicolae oblu emergency hospital and i want you to know that i think being a doctor means more than treating patients, it means starting to treat the world and health, and what's happening right now in the european union, and i hope you all support this effort, because the only healthy option is health.
member of the commission. – madam president, dear members, the debate today illustrates the importance and the complexity of the situation in the red sea and the gulf region as a whole, and the challenges that the eu faces, indeed, in relation to this conflict, but also to other conflicts. the eu is actively working on solutions to restore maritime security in the red sea. this is an international problem that requires an international solution, and coordination. as you asked me about what the eu is preparing in relation to the eu navfor operation atalanta, further options concerning the eu maritime response will be discussed at council level, based on a proposal presented by the high representative. the eu is engaging with partners in different diplomatic fora, and to protect navigational freedoms and maritime security, the eu considers ways to enhance its presence, assets and capacity of actions in the red sea and beyond. it is too early to evaluate the impact of the houthi’s attack and us/uk retaliation on the discussions concerning an internal ceasefire in yemen. the eu will continue to support un special envoy grundberg’s work and the un-steered peace process leading to a final, comprehensive and inclusive peace deal, including a permanent nationwide ceasefire. just one personal remark. i’m a bit surprised that those who are bombing every night civilians, killing civilians, destroying infrastructures, houses, apartments, that they are in the forefront to condemn what, finally, is a military operation against terrorist attacks against peaceful vessels.
thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed, and before we come to our next item, i would like to indicate a very small break – a technical break of just five minutes – and then we will continue. (the sitting was suspended at 19.52)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the revision of the european labour authority mandate (2023/2866(rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, dear members, i would like to thank the european parliament for adding this very timely debate on the revision of the ela mandate, and for the suggestions put forward with its resolution. the european labour authority is still a young agency, with high expectations attached to it. living up to these expectations takes time and might require adjustments. ela has already come a long way and its actions are making a real difference to ensure eu labour mobility. ela is here to support, directly and indirectly, the millions of europeans who live or work in another member state, as well as businesses operating across eu borders. it offers practical support in cross-border employment via its network, helping jobseekers and employers find each other. it analyses labour mobility, providing us with intelligence, so we understand the latest trends and get the data we need. it tackles undeclared work, which deprives workers of social protection, distorts competition between businesses and leads to huge gaps in public finances. one of the european labour authority's main tasks is to improve access to information for mobile workers and their employers. it is not enough to have rules and regulations for social protection; workers need to understand them and employers need to assume responsibility for them. europe should be the beacon, the gold standard when it comes to labour market conditions, regardless of where the worker comes from. ela plays a central role in this endeavour. since it was created five years ago, ela has supported more than 100 cross-border, joint and concerted inspections and has provided substantial support for the member states, working to develop cooperation programmes, including on posting of workers. the commission is currently in the process of evaluating the first five years of ela's operation. your resolution is extremely important in this context, together with the contribution from the belgian presidency via a conference organised at the end of january, which will contribute to the evaluation. when considering a possible revision of the mandate of ela, we should take two points into account. first, we have to analyse carefully which parts of ela's functioning could be improved eventually without such a revision. second, it is important to see the final results of the evaluation and to draw the adequate conclusions. the mission of ela is to improve enforcement of the fair mobility eu legislation. this needs to remain at the core while we address remaining challenges. for example, one of these challenges relates to the entry, employment and working conditions of third-country nationals. we recently had particularly worrisome situations with third-country nationals in the transport sector. ela has been active and here is a need to evaluate if its means are sufficient and appropriate. the set-up of ela allows a close involvement of social partners, but there is still scope for additional engagement. the suggestion that ela should be able to bring detected breaches in front of a court of the concerned member states will require a sound legal analysis. with regard to social security coordination and its digitalisation, a pilot project of the european social security pass is ongoing. the support of ela in this field will remain crucial, for instance, by facilitating the regular exchange of experiences between national authorities. there should be synergies between the work of different agencies for achieving efficiency gains and avoiding overlaps. this is particularly important when it comes to tackling skills mismatches, since other agencies, such as cedefop, are also working on this matter. i am confident the european parliament will continue to be our close partner to tackle these important challenges in the field of fair mobility. i thank the members for their valuable input into the future of ela. we share a common goal establishing a well-functioning and efficient labour authority that continues to strengthen fairness and trust in the internal market.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. the opinion presented here makes clear our expectations as a european parliament towards the european commission regarding the new ela mandate. and it must be said that the commissioner has also pointed out that the launch of ela was good, despite all the difficulties that a new authority always brings. but now it's about giving the tiger teeth. and i think the example of the truck drivers in grafenhausen who went on strike twice last year makes it clear why this is more than overdue. the question of unpaid wages and the question of how we deal with third-country workers who must be included in the ela's portfolio. that's what grafenhausen has shown. and the new mandate, from my point of view, is about two things that are very important: firstly, of course, we as the european union must play an active role in protecting workers from exploitation and strengthening the backs of workers when it comes to enforcing their rights. that's the one. but the other is and this is almost as important: if we are talking about the single market as the heart of the european union, we must also ensure that the rules applicable to the single market are also respected. because we can get legislation here without end, like, to stay with the example, the mobility package. but if there is no enforcement, if, as in the case of grafenhausen, authorities shift responsibility to each other and the ela does not even have the right to take initiative, then that shows the problems. we have addressed them in our report, in our opinion, in the hope that the commission will take the ball.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, commissioner, dear dennis, when the doorbell rings, do you open the door if you know your house is a little bit of a mess? i must say, i would be hesitant. i think most people would try to stall having guests over or at least try quickly to cover the biggest mess in some kind of cupboard. i think the same is true for member states: if they know there are cases of labour exploitation, they might not be keen to invite the newest european agency over, the ela. at the moment, the ela is only allowed to have inspections when they are invited, thereby limiting their powers, and i think it's essential that the commission be giving the ela a bigger mandate after evaluation later this year. but workers need more than that. because if only all european employers would be holier than the pope, then we didn't need this agency, but sadly they are not. some have not only exploitation of european workers on their hands, they also didn't seem to have a problem with exploiting non-european workers. and then, as already mentioned, the example of grafenhausen, where lorry drivers went on strike at a rest stop for weeks in a row because they have not been paid for months in a row and the ela was not able to intervene. when an eu-based employer is not paying its workers or is treating them badly, this should be investigated and prosecuted by the ela, no matter if the workers are europeans or non-europeans. the belgians are keen to get to work with the evaluation, and i understand from the contribution of the commission that the commission will join their efforts to finally ensure fair mobility in our union, and that would be great.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, commissioner nicolas schmit, ladies and gentlemen, the question is how do we ensure that labour mobility within the european union is efficient while ensuring respect for workers' rights and a healthy competitive environment? the european labour authority (ela) was set up for this purpose. in a very short time, with excellent management, she became functional, taking over her duties. however, it is clear that it has not yet reached its full potential. the question is why? the voluntary nature of cooperation between member states, limited competence and a rigid legal framework have hampered it. the ela should have the power to initiate and conduct investigations on its own, especially when national authorities do nothing or even end up protecting governments politically. the ela is the authority we have to call when the employer breaks their contract rules and we wake up with unpaid wages and the state institutions do nothing to help. ela is the authority we call upon when we are the victim of abuse at work and we are not being treated fairly. that's what european citizens expect: they wait to see how the rules at european level are met. we need to recognize the impact that ela can have and provide the necessary resources and access, provide a space for collaboration so that ela can closely monitor the cases brought to its attention and act where necessary. a europe where citizens can enjoy the right to mobility in the labour market.
member of the commission. madam president, i think that the day is well chosen for a debate on the european labour authority. we have paid tribute to jacques delors at the beginning of this session, to his memory and above all to his actions. for him, the internal market, which was much mentioned, and free movement were not an end in themselves. it is clear that for him there could be no internal market and free movement without a strong social dimension, without a high level of social protection for all workers. it was her wish. i must admit that progress, and he has also looked at it this way, has sometimes been too slow. but we have made progress, i simply recall, for example, the detachment directive. but we all know that guidelines are useful, important, sometimes decisive, but what really matters is their implementation. and it is not the implementation after months and years of cases in the courts and i do not diminish the importance of the courts. but when workers are faced, as has been the case, with social dumping, exploitation, denial of wages, unacceptable working conditions, etc., what they ask for is immediate implementation, immediate reaction, the ability to rely on a body to protect them. that's the aim of the aet. i must say that it was the previous commission chaired by my compatriot that made changes. today we can argue that if social protection is to apply to third-country nationals coming to europe to work, if their protection and the same rights to which they are entitled can be challenged, it is not in the european spirit, it is not in the spirit of delors, and it is not in the spirit of the european treaties. and so, to fail to protect workers from third countries is to expose all workers, all workers to all forms of exploitation, to all forms of social dumping. because it is well known that if we do not protect workers from third countries, then the levels of protection for others will not increase, but on the contrary, they will also decrease. so there can be no place in this europe for social dumping. and that's why this debate is important. the role of the etuc must therefore be considered to what extent and in what form. and thanks to your resolution, thanks to the work being done by the belgian presidency, but also on the basis of the evaluation report that the commission is preparing and which will be available at the beginning of august, we will have clear indications on what additional legal and other means the etuc must be given in order to carry out its function properly and even better.
thank you very much, commissioner. i have received one motion for a resolution to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will be held on thursday.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the role of social award criteria in public procurement in strengthening social rights, good working conditions and inclusive labour markets by dragoş pîslaru on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000058/2023 - b9-0003/24) (2023/2940(rsp).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – madam president, dear commissioner nicolas schmit, the public procurement directive has the potential to promote fair competition and inclusive labour markets, and it should do that. it could also be an essential instrument for increasing collective bargaining coverage in accordance with the minimum wage directive. however, evidence shows that public authorities face legal challenges and uncertainty when trying to apply mandatory social award criteria and sustainable award criteria. the european parliament committee of employment and social affairs has analysed rigorously this matter. in 2023, the employment and social affairs committee commissioned a study – dg ipol has delivered the study – with the key findings of where we are. what is the status quo? on 25 october last year, we held a public hearing on the social impact of public procurement. both activities pointed out the same issue: legal challenges and uncertainty. if we are to look at the dimension of public procurement in europe, the source of wealth, the source that we can actually put together there for improving our markets is enormous – we are talking more than eur 500 billion. experts, representatives of local municipal authorities and of the social partners, stressed, in the hearing that we had, that the role of public procurement should be key in strengthening collective bargaining and social progress in the eu, and they pointed out the legal uncertainties of the current eu legislative framework on public procurement. solutions that have been discussed in the employment and social affairs committee with our colleagues involved, first of all, revising the public procurement directive so that there is an explicit push by public authorities to have no public contract without a collective agreement, clarifying that the promotion of collective bargaining with binding labour clauses does not violate eu law – and we had a big debate on that – revising the public procurement directive to include mandatory social criteria, such as collective agreements, among others. it is therefore clear that the potential of socially responsible public procurement remains largely unexploited, and that the current voluntary approach is not sufficient, and that further work at eu level is necessary. therefore, dear commissioner schmit, the questions to start this debate are the following. first of all, will the commission consider revising the directive to ensure legal certainty; in particular, to ensure that collective agreements and social criteria are not considered a discriminatory measure in public contracts? second, will the commission consider revising the annex 10 of the public procurement directive in order to update the ilo conventions listed, especially with regard to ilo convention 94? furthermore, will the commission take the necessary measure to ensure that the non-respect for fundamental ilo conventions 98 and 87 become an exclusion criteria in the context of public procurement? the fourth question is: will the commission promote joint and several liability in subcontracting chains? fifth, will the commission ensure social conditionalities in union funding related to public procurement? this is very important. we should start negotiating the next multiannual financial framework soon, and we need to look at that. six, will the commission ensure that the public procurement plays a role in promoting upskilling and reskilling of workers, especially in the view of the new technologies arising from the green and digital transition? seven, last but not least, will the commission strengthen data collection on the volume and the value of socially responsible public procurement, as well as the exchange of knowledge and best practices in the eu? together with my colleagues in the employment and social affairs committee, and based both on the research that we’ve done, and the hearing that we had with experts and representatives of local authorities and stakeholders, social partners, we believe that tapping on this important resource, on public procurement and providing social work criteria, is just the right step towards a social europe, towards the model that we would like to build together. for that we need, again, the cooperation of all the institutions. the parliament has initiated right now the process of this particular debate, and we are waiting and looking forward for how to push forward for this to happen.
mr. speaker, what is this? snow saves lives. snow and nicotine bags have made sweden a world leader in combating smoking. this has led to a significant reduction in the number of smokers. swedes smoke the least in the eu: only 5.6% smoke daily compared to the eu average of 23%. despite its success, the commission is constantly seeking to achieve a snuff ban. the latest is that nicotine bags, the so-called white snus, will become illegal throughout the eu, which would also apply to sweden. the exception for the sale of snows in sweden does not apply to white snows. at the same time, the eu wants europe to be smoke-free by 2040, which is counterproductive. the only way to properly reduce the number of smokers is to offer an alternative, such as snus or nicotine products. the eu should learn more from sweden and pursue a policy that is not so cigarette-friendly.
mr president, dear colleagues, i want to comment on the last development in the deportation of ukrainian children – because on 4 january, president putin signed a decree to simplify further granting russian citizenship to ukrainians, including children. this is another of putin’s attempts to eradicate the ukrainian people and steal their future children. through this decree, ukrainian children can now become russian citizens on the whim of the russian dictator. if we don't act, we may soon wake up to a reality where all ukrainian deported children will lose their original identity and become russian citizens. we must act. so i welcome the international coalition for the return of ukrainian children, newly formed by president zelenskyy. i call for greater involvement from the international red cross committee as well as the european commission. we must work together for the safe return of children.
mr president, the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen air and water area was welcomed with different sentiments. some bulgarian citizens and politicians mainly described it as a great success, others as a huge failure. i was among those who said that this was a step forward, making it clear that this is not what we were working for and that this is not the fair decision for the bulgarian and romanian citizens, because since 2011 we have been waiting and meeting all the criteria, and we are getting the assessment of the council, the european commission and this place here in the european parliament, with ever stronger and stronger resolutions. but here we have seen the consequences of the european council's partial decisions in the last few days. the border between bulgaria and romania cannot be crossed for 12 14 hours. cars, and more specifically heavy-duty vehicles, are in dire straits. is this european integration? austrian politicians at the highest level say we're in the woods. what wound? in honor of those people who have been executing all the decisions of the european institutions for years. it's time to correct this injustice. in 2024, a decision is to be taken and the rules ultimately apply to all european citizens.
mr president, i want to speak to you. on november 25, right-wing neo-nazis, nationalist thinkers, gathered in a hotel in potsdam and forged plans to expel millions of people from germany. and this very idea has structure all over europe. it's the simple, the short answers that lead to these very contemptuous ideas coming back to life. we don't just notice it with us. we see it everywhere on the planet, wherever autocratic regimes are in place, there is a push against minorities, and it is our responsibility to stand up against exactly this! we are at the heart of this wonderful force of the european union. it's our job to defend these very freedoms and to ensure that there is a remigration from this very thing of thought back to the last millennium.
president. it is a great honour to serve the public interest. unfortunately, not everyone in brussels shares the same conviction. the president of the european council, charles michel, will be a list-holder in the european elections in june. however, his term of office, the union's most important function, will continue until november. but for mr michel, it's no problem. he just leaves early. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. don't let this get you wrong. we're witnessing a lot of opportunism here. he has made little impression as chairman, so out of fear of unemployment michel is already sorting out the next job in brussels. this is not good for trust. it is precisely at these moments that voters ask themselves: what's the point of all this? there is nothing wrong with ambition, but charles michel clearly sees personal interest as above public interest.
mr president, on 27 october a massive 10 000 cubic metres of rock fell in the area of la praz, cutting off all road and rail traffic in haute-maurienne and the main border crossing point between italy and france. since then, many companies using the alpine highway have been shut down and are losing up to eur 100 000 per month. while the work is expected to be completed by the end of the year, a large part of the workforce is already unemployed and companies have no long-term vision. banks are not following up and no emergency aid is being unlocked for these companies. absolutely nothing is offered when they're losing everything. some will go into liquidation in a few weeks if nothing is done. as the lyon-turin works will cost the european union several billion euros, it is imperative to act without delay to help the railway professionals who will no longer exist when the line finally comes into existence.
mr president, at the end of december the council of the european union decided that romania and bulgaria would join the schengen area. although all the conditions have been met for more than a decade, the two countries to be full members, are stopped by a government that has set new conditions for our states. dear colleagues, commissioner, the reluctance to respect european treaties is worrying. the fear of other member states is pure nationalism, very dangerous to our development, the european union. i am convinced that romania and bulgaria will also meet the new conditions, but we, the european parliament and the european commission, have to ensure that when these new conditions are met, romania and bulgaria will receive the immediate positive vote to enter the land area, the schengen area. the european union must grow and develop and we must not allow it to be stopped in these times of nationalism, populism and individualism.
mr. president, family doctors in romania are neither respected nor paid. half of the 10,000 family doctors are over 60 years old, and while still waiting to get a job, over 4,000 family doctors from romania have gone abroad. and who can blame them? family doctors are on the front lines, we go to them when we cough, like many people in this room do, and when we have colds and stuff, now, in the middle of winter. health care is more expensive than anything, but it seems the government says it's expensive. they cut the budget, so you must be lucky to treat yourself. they created a practical quota for those who escape and those who don't. because with less money you can't treat all those people. i stand in solidarity with the family doctors and ask the government to respect them, pay them. they're when we're in pain, including at night, when we're on the phone. mr. chiolacu, don't get cold, because no one's answering the phone!
for the id group. mr president, fire taxation and bureaucracy. this is obviously the answer if you ask this house, the european parliament, how we are going to solve the challenge of green transition. but you forget that every time the eu comes up with a new bureaucratic system and wants to roll it out to businesses in all eu countries, there is only one place the bill can end up, and that is with consumers. and you should have thought you had learned that after the inflation crisis in europe had completely overcome. the european union has not been able to manage its economy in the same way as other western countries. so the answer is again from here: let's put more burdens on business. let us propose new taxes on ordinary european consumers. consumers, because it is obviously the only way to go when you are european in relation to the green transition. the truth is, you are so far ahead of the world community that all you are doing is regulating and taxing jobs, wealth and growth from europe to the rest of the world. it is incredible how little thought is put into green policy in the eu. if we really want to save the world, if we really believe that green transition is a necessity, then the only way we can actually change anything is through innovation, through market forces and through stopping believing that we can pick the winners here in the european parliament. because the truth is, it's not going very well.
mr president, we are still talking about a greener economy and how great it is for the environment and about solutions. it's still a mantra. i am pleased that we are also taking this opportunity to protect the end consumer who uses these products. and i'd like to congratulate ms. borzan on the very good news. we can't want everything to be eco, bio, raw, like this mantra that companies often abuse in their marketing campaigns, but they also mislead people into buying more products that they think are better, that are better, that are better for the environment. i'm very glad that this message is introducing the idea that it can't be abused. it's going to have to be really based on some evidence that which product is really better for the environment, but that we're also looking at how to use those products as long as possible, so that we don't keep wasting, buying more stuff, but fixing those things more. i would also like to stress that i think the objective we are talking about to put something like this into effect 30 months after it is adopted is sufficient because in two and a half years, manufacturers can actually do it. thank you, miss reporter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not going to be able to do this. we want a competitive internal market. we want a single market where consumers and consumers can choose between the best products, with the aim that the supplier who provides the best products is also the winner. we have confirmed this with great force in the digital single market a few months ago. and with the directive adopted here, we want to make this possible for consumers who are referring to advertising on certain products. advertising is important. it is legitimate to promote your own products and services in the social market economy, but only with statements that are also verifiable. and in this respect, terms such as 'climate neutral' or 'climate positive' will be subject to future review. this is good because we want to make sure that the circular economy actually serves the circular economy and not just the supply of certain products. however, it is also true that the much-discussed project has not yet found any evidence of a planned obsolescence. and in this respect, again, to confirm that such experiments would also be inadmissible. the whole point is that we are not only offering the best single market ever to businesses in europe, but also to consumers. this is something that needs to be improved again and again. i would like to thank everyone who has worked with us.
mr president, i am not going to say anything. europe's consumers can play a very important role in the green transition. we can vote with our feet and our wallets, but for it to work for the green transition, we need to know the truth about the products we buy. as a consumer, you need to be able to trust and understand the information that the manufacturers provide. but today, it's like a wilderness of green claims on everything from clothes to washing machines. sustainable, co2 reduced, climate neutral. as a consumer, it is actually completely impossible to overlook and to see through. we are now changing that with rules that empower us consumers. i need to finish the green wash. we need to stop all undocumented green claims. in future, producers will only be allowed to use the green claims if there is real evidence. and at the same time, we are putting an end to the other bad habits of producers that mislead consumers and, at worst, lead to increased consumption. thank you very much to our negotiator, biljana borzan. you've fought a tireless battle for consumers and for our nature. thank you so much for that.
mr vice-president, mr commissioner reynders, dear colleagues, consumer protection is one of our priorities in the imco commission, and this report comes to ensure that they are correctly informed and not misled into buying products that claim to be environmentally friendly, without this being true. it is important that those who choose products that protect the environment make sure they are not deceived by false advertising. it is normal to set clear standards and targets for a product to be declared organic and one criterion is not sufficient. of course, the whole economy will be engaged in meeting the objectives of the environmental pact, but it must do so honestly, and our consumers in our countries must be able to make informed choices, because that is the only way they can influence the market in the desired direction.
madam president, commissioner, just a few days ago i had the honour of attending a high-level diplomatic event, an initiative organised in timisoara, romania, where the timisoara prize for european values was awarded. an extraordinary event organized at the initiative of mayor dominic fritz, whom i congratulate. this year's prize for promoting european values was awarded to president maia sandu, the leader from chisinau, who faces daily threats from moscow, a state that has had an illegal military presence in its territory for more than thirty years in the transnistrian separatist region. we need such messages of support through diplomacy on a regular basis, and i am pleased that on this occasion the european parliament has conveyed a strong message of support, through the voice of mrs metsola and, of course, alongside other european leaders. our eastern partners in chisinau and kiev need constant support and we must do this with all our determination.
we have already lost too many opportunities to strengthen our role in conflict prevention and resolution. now it's time to run to shelter! the first step, i believe, is the establishment of the european civilian peace corps, an initiative which was approved by this house in late 1999 on the initiative of our late colleague alexander langer. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the basis of the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers' rights and the protection of workers' rights. i would like to thank all the members of the afet committee for supporting my amendments to the zovko report, which we have called for the establishment of the european civilian peace corps to be restarted without further delay. a first step has been taken, but it will probably not be enough. i therefore ask your support, dear colleagues, to carry out, by the end of this term, the procedure which i have already started with the bureau of the afet committee to adopt this resolution on this very subject before the end of the term. let us act together towards our common goal; let's all work together for change. we are making our union more and more a player, not a piece or, worse, a chessboard within the international balance sheet. we can build peace seriously if we want to have the tools to do so!
member of the commission. – madam president, this very interesting debate – although sometimes a bit surprising – illustrates the importance and complexity of preventive diplomacy in the current geopolitical context. our time is increasingly marked not only by starker polarisation – the multi-polarity adds to this complexity, especially when we look at the different conflicts. the eu was created as a peace project between nations that opposed each other in two bitter world wars. from these painful experiences rose one of the world’s most successful political entities in history, which brought unprecedented stability and prosperity to its members. it should be, by the way, a good lesson for everybody that peace is possible and has good results. but preventive diplomacy is a collaborative effort. and to face today’s challenges, it is more important than ever that we, as the eu, speak with one voice. and to have a weight in international relations, it is the eu that has to be present and has to speak with one voice. this is crucial if we want to enhance meaningful and solid partnerships for successful conflict prevention and resolution globally. that is why your report is very timely and welcome. and i want, in the name of vice-president borrell, to thank you very much for it and especially also for your continued support.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his kind words and to thank all the colleagues for contributing to this very, very rich debate. this is the beginning of our rethinking about what the european union should do in order to have a more unified voice, in order to maintain its economic and diplomatic strength globally. first of all, we need to rethink our foreign policy-making and invest more in the prevention of the challenges that we are facing. the european union must seek to prevent conflict before a crisis emerges or violence erupts. this must be a constant and high priority for all eu diplomatic engagements. it is not only when cnn cameras are around that the main people should come. but we must resolve the conflicts, and as my colleague nacho said, it is very important to address, to understand cultural and historical background and to have people listened to and to have respect. i remember many years ago the late president chirac told me – i was ambassador in paris – the main thing is respect, listening and respecting people. he was one of the key people for signing the dayton-paris peace accord. so in order to prevent and to keep peace, we must understand others and we must invest in peace. because this, as you rightly said, the whole investment in peace and prevention, pays off – but it pays off because history will ask us where we were when this investment and this human effort was made.
the discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 17 january 2024. written declarations (article 171)
it's in writing. preventive diplomacy, as an essential pillar of international policy, plays a key role in resolving the frozen conflicts in the world. it is both an opportunity to avoid bloody clashes and a potential change for the future, shaping more sustainable international relations. in the context of opportunity, preventive diplomacy enables the early detection of conflict sources and the establishment of dialogue between the parties. through effective negotiations, it can prevent a worsening situation, reduce human suffering and avoid humanitarian disasters. this tool provides an opportunity to intervene effectively before disputes escalate. however, when preventive diplomacy fails, it can be seen as a wasted opportunity. the lack of international agreement, cultural barriers or political prejudices can prevent effective conflict resolution, leading to a loss of valuable time and opportunity for peaceful agreement. in the long term, however, effective preventive diplomacy is a significant change for the future. if states invest in cooperation, mutual understanding and diplomatic education, they can lay the foundations for lasting peace. the strengthening of the role of preventive diplomacy can contribute to transforming global relations, minimising the risk of new frozen conflicts.
in writing. – resurging conflicts in europe have once again reminded us of the worthy investment that preventive diplomacy entails. the logic of preventive diplomacy is in the genes of the european union – indeed at its very genesis – and elements of prevention emerge in all our major strategy and policy documents. article 3 of the treaty on the european union states that ‘the union’s aim is to promote peace, its values and the well-being of its peoples’, further specifying in article 21(2)(c) that the eu shall work to ‘preserve peace, prevent conflicts and strengthen international security’. yet, we encounter obstacles in ‘selling’ the need for preventative engagement, both internally and externally. beyond geopolitical circumstances, the case for preventive engagement remains strong – not only considering the moral, but also the economic imperatives. so, let us politically renew our emphasis on early warning, gear funding programmes towards long-term investment, enhance political buy- in to the logic of prevention and reinforce the culture of preventive diplomacy among eu member states.
the agenda calls into question the report by peter jahr on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2022 (2023/2120(ini)) (a9-0414/2023)
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the use of certain substances. i congratulate the ombudsman, emily o'reilly, on her work and her constructive efforts to improve the quality of european administration and access to and the quality of her services for the citizens, and i also thank her for the good cooperation with the committee on petitions. the european ombudsman assists citizens, businesses and organisations who are having difficulties with eu administration by addressing their complaints and by seeking to promote good administrative practice by actively investigating ongoing systematic problems within the eu institutions and bodies. in 2022, 16 569 citizens applied for assistance to the ombudsman's office, which shows the importance of this institution in itself. of the total 2 238 complaints processed by the ombudsman in 2022, 755 were within the ombudsman's scope, while the others were outside its scope. here 's my first conclusion . this shows that there is still a need to promote the ombudsman's areas of expertise so that citizens know what problems they can address to the ombudsman. in 2022, 348 investigations were carried out, 344 of which were based on complaints and four were on their own initiative. the ombudsman also completed 330 investigations. here's my second conclusion: i think it is very important for my group that the right of the ombudsman to take initiative on his own initiative is used, but not abused. and i must say that our ombudsman has made proper use of this instrument. the commission was involved in most of the investigations. the five main concerns, completed in 2022, were transparency, accountability, access to information and documents, service culture and respect for fundamental rights. in addition to the core work on complaints, the ombudsman also carried out extensive investigations and initiatives on systematic problems with the union institutions. for example, the filming effect, dealing with text messages, conflicts of interest and meetings with lobbyists. thirdly, i would like to draw the conclusion that this is precisely why we still need a debate. what do you mean by documents? are there only official documents? how do you deal with confidential information, or is there no such information? fourthly, since at least 2022, everyone in the commission has been aware that text messages are also documents. i think that the commission will at least take this into account in future work. and fifthly, to be honest, as a member of the committee on petitions, i sometimes look a little jealous of the length of time that complaints have to be lodged with our ombudswoman, who usually closes complaints in three months. the petition committee needs a little longer. maybe we can exchange a little more. i would like to summarize: the ombudsman plays a crucial role in ensuring that decision-making and administrative processes at eu level are transparent and objective. however, it must also be said that the right to transparency has its limitations, especially if this would interfere with the decision-making process of the eu institutions. i look forward to the debate and the consultations today.
ombudsman. – madam president, honourable members, commissioner, let me begin by wishing you a happy and, hopefully, a peaceful new year, and by thanking rapporteur jahr, the shadow rapporteurs and the petitions committee as a whole for its unanimous endorsement of our work in 2022. an ombudsman’s office cannot be successful without the support and confidence of the parliament that it reports to. this new year is widely viewed as one that will test the strength of our democracies, as countries representing more than half of the world’s population will hold elections. the choices made in the united states and in india, for example, will affect international cooperation, global security, the fight against climate change and much more. europeans will also elect the meps they want to represent them for the next five years. as parliament’s influence continues to grow, the choices that eu citizens make will have a profound impact on the eu’s handling of everything from the economy and the environment, to defence and the protection of our democratic institutions. a strong democracy is one in which citizens can trust those who make such profound decisions on their behalf. i acknowledge the progress that this institution has made so far in strengthening its ethics framework following the cash for influence scandal. the goal must now be to reassure citizens that the newly adopted rules will be thoroughly implemented and rigorously enforced. without that, the new rules are just words on a page. in 2022, my office saw a slight increase in the number of complaints when compared to 2021. the number of inquiries we opened also rose accordingly. common topics included transparency and accountability, a culture of service on the part of the institutions, and respect for fundamental rights. access to documents was once again an important area of my work in 2022. following an increase in complaints regarding delays, i opened an own- initiative inquiry into the time it takes the commission to deal with access requests. i found that when people asked the commission to review an initial access decision, because it refused or only granted partial access to the requested documents, the commission misses the deadline set out in the eu’s access to documents regulation in 85% of cases. over 60% of these review decisions also took more than 60 working days, despite a maximum limit of 30. long delays are not merely an inconvenience: they can prevent citizens from effectively participating in the decision-making process at key moments. they may also render the information eventually obtained no longer useful for researchers or journalists or citizens. access delayed is effectively access denied, and further serves to weaken that necessary trust that there must be between frequently powerless citizens and very often very powerful institutions. we need to remember that democracy is not only eroded when an authoritarian leader moves to dismantle or undermine democratic institutions. it is also eroded in small ways, such as in failing to allow citizens access to documents that they have a right to access, and with the administration reasonably confident that few of those citizens will challenge them in court. i have called on the commission to adopt a fundamental change in approach to meeting deadlines. recent inquiries have shown that the problem, however, continues to persist, and that is why i asked this institution for its formal support via a special report. i was happy to participate in the positive discussions that have already taken place in the libe committee, and i look forward to the debate and resolution in plenary on my special report. in 2022, i looked again at how the eu administration handles moves by its staff to related roles in the private sector – a phenomenon known as ‘revolving doors’. i called on the european central bank to apply stricter rules to these moves, especially when they concern the financial sector. in particular, i suggested that more staff be subject to stricter cooling-off requirements and that the ecb increase the ban on former senior staff lobbying their past colleagues to one year. another area i looked at was citizen participation and how the eu administration interacts with stakeholders and lobbyists. for example, when it comes to implementation of the common agricultural policy, i called on the commission to ensure it consults a balanced representation of stakeholders, which not only includes representatives of the agricultural industry but also of civil society. with the droughts, forest fires, floods and other natural disasters increasing across our continent, and last year being the warmest on record, the fight against climate change is of vital importance to europeans. in 2022, i carried out a public consultation to evaluate whether citizens have the opportunities and up-to-date information they need to participate in decision-making related to the environment. respondents identified a number of concerns, including a lack of transparency around lobbying, difficulty in accessing information concerning trilogue discussions and trouble with access to document requests. i have already opened one inquiry following the consultation, which concerns the risk management of dangerous chemicals and am looking into other possibilities. in relation to fundamental rights, i identified several areas where frontex could improve its accountability. these include publishing summaries of its operational plans, providing further training to its fundamental rights monitors and ensuring cultural experts are present during screening interviews. i also inquired into how the commission monitors eu structural and investment, or esi, funds, to ensure they promote the rights of persons with disabilities to independent living and inclusion in the community. i suggested that the commission provide clearer guidance to member states and to its own staff about the need to promote these goals through eu funding, not only through esi but also through the newer recovery and resilience facility. another high point of 2022 was to welcome the ombudsmen of ukraine and moldova to the european network of ombudsmen, which i have the honour to coordinate. in my 10 years as european ombudsman, i have seen much positive change in the eu administration as a whole, but also in the work of my own office. in 2022, we closed 48% of all inquiries within three months and 86% of inquiries within one year. in 2013, when i took office, those figures stood at 22% and 59%, respectively. these marked improvements in efficiency have allowed us to provide better service to citizens, while also more effectively holding the eu institutions to account. to conclude, the year ahead may be a challenging one, but it also provides an opportunity to unite europe with the citizens in a way that exemplifies the best of the union – one that remains faithful to its foundational values and does not bend with contrary and dangerous winds. as ombudsman, i will continue to do all that i can do to respond to people’s concerns and promote good administration. in doing so, i hope to do my part in furthering citizens’ trust in the eu and in its democratic institutions. thank you for your support.
executive vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, dear ms o’reilly, our ombudsman, first and foremost, i would like to underline that i am very pleased to take the floor on the european parliament’s report and resolution on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2022. we can thank our ombudsman and her team and her office for important work done in that year. i also would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jahr, the coordinators of the peti committee and all its members involved for this annual exercise, providing the views of the european parliament on the issues that it considers noteworthy in the area of good administration for citizens, businesses and associations. as highlighted in the report and resolution, the work of the european ombudsman is important to improve administrative practices and to promote accountability and full transparency of the eu institutions. this is essential for eu citizens, businesses, associations, but also for the eu administration, because eu administration should always strive to achieve its highest standards in this respect, and even more now this year, where the eu citizens in the 27 member states will be called to vote for the european elections. the european commission remains the main addressee of the european ombudsman’s inquiries and initiatives, with 197 inquiries and initiatives out of 348 launched in 2022, representing 57.1% of the total, a slight decrease compared to the 61.5% in 2021. these figures also reflect the fact that the european commission is the largest eu institution, which has many interactions with the citizens. against this backdrop, the european commission remains fully committed to acting with due respect, due diligence and the highest responsibility towards the citizens’ expectations and demands. although in some cases there might be disagreements, the fact that it is very rare that an inquiry ends up with the final closing decisions of maladministration is an indication that constant dialogue and mutual understanding can provide tangible and concrete results. indeed, the european ombudsman’s solution proposals, suggestions for improvement and recommendations are taken into account and implemented by the commission whenever feasible. the report and resolution refers to important issues such as, among others, the interaction between the european commission and the tobacco industry; the means for ensuring independence and no conflict of interest in advisory and expert groups; the so-called revolving doors phenomenon; the ethical and transparency rules applying to commissioners; the transparency of the eu environmental decision-making process of negotiations of trade agreements; or the recovery and resilience facility funding issues related to the common agricultural policy, as well as the handling of requests for public access to documents or concerns regarding fundamental and human rights. as usual, the european commission will duly examine the european parliament’s resolution in the coming weeks and will reply in detail to all the issues that concerns the commission, including relevant updates. we remain committed to implementing the highest standards in the european public administration. so, madam president, i look forward to hearing the views of the honourable members, and i thank you all for your attention.
on behalf of the epp group. madam president, the honourable ombudsman, today i would like to stress the importance of the principle of transparency in public administration, an area in which the institutions of the european union are trying to set a positive example. in the eu, where diversity and cohesion are essential, the principle of transparency becomes crucial. transparency should be the bridge between the european institutions and their citizens, allowing europeans to have access to clear and complete information on decision-making processes, so that they can ultimately contribute actively to the shaping of the policies affecting them. in addition, when administrative processes are open and visible, a climate of trust between the administration and citizens is created. this leads to a better understanding and approach to the needs and concerns of citizens. moreover, when administrative procedures are clear, a framework is created where citizens can defend their rights effectively. transparency is therefore a barrier against abuses of power and a way to ensure respect for democratic principles. the european union institutions certainly have work to do to ensure better administration, tailored to the needs of all european citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear european ombudsman, emily o’reilly, dear executive vice-president of the commission, dear colleagues, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jahr, and all our shadow rapporteurs for the work done on this file. most importantly, i would like to thank our european ombudsman, ms o’reilly, and her wonderful team, for their tireless efforts to improve the standards of eu administration over the past 11 years. transparency, accountability, and compliance with fundamental and human rights obligations are essential elements that were investigated by the ombudsman and her office in 2022. those values are the core of our union, and i am glad to see that the ombudsman’s recommendation helped to improve the functioning of our institutions with tangible results. i particularly welcome the inquiry on the revolving door policies of the commission and of the european central bank, as well as the inquiry on the handling of work-related texts and instant messages. for the socialists and democrats group, it is important that our institutions must follow closely the ombudsman’s recommendations. at the current stage, more needs to be done to reach an appropriate level of accountability in european public administration. systemic and significant delays in how the commission handles requests for public access to document still exist, and this is unacceptable and rightly considered as maladministration. it is unacceptable that citizens and journalists have to wait – sometimes up to 15 months – before the commission processes their requests. the council’s refusal to give full public access to documents related to some negotiations is also a worrying sign of widespread structural problems. the european institutions need to take concrete steps in this regard. transparency lies at the basis of our citizens’ trust, and today, more than ever, it is essential to demonstrate our ability to keep promises and maintain high accountability. i would also like to thank our ombudsman for the excellent coordination work she does with the enlarged european network of ombudsmen. as a vice-president, i can tell you that this bureau has been very active this last month to strengthen our transparency rules and our accountability here in the parliament. it was good that you mentioned it too. i thank you and your team very much for your good work.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, colleagues commissioner, ombudsman, as a member of peti for the past almost ten years, i have followed closely the activities of the ombudsman and i can say without a doubt that her commitment to transparency, accountability and the promotion of ethical standards within the eu institutions are truly commendable. so when madame o’reilly takes the rare step of asking the ep for formal support to get the european commission to reduce systemic delays in dealing with requests for public access to documents, i believe we must give this support. i have personally made requests for access to documents in the past, and i understand how difficult it is to get a clear and complete answer. it is discouraging to see the results of the specific inquiry into the time taken by the commission to reply to requests. when it comes to asking the commission to review its initial decision, receiving an answer above the 30 day legal limit has become the norm, not the exception. this makes it clear that we are dealing with the systemic problem in how requests for access to documents are answered. as parliament, we have to follow up on this issue and make sure that the commission takes action without delay.
for the verts/ale group. the commission is not going to vote. yes, thank you, mrs. president, and thank you to the ombudsman. there has been much talk about the importance of having genuine openness for our citizens to follow, and here i would like to emphasize in particular the good work emily o'reilly has done to keep this going. because if we don't have this to run properly, we are on it, and that is why it is so important that we have a good ombudsman. and fortunately, the eu has had it so far. i would like to thank you for this and also for your good cooperation with the report to peter jahr. i would like to highlight a few examples which i think are important: the study of the composition of the eu energy platform advisory group, where the fossil industry was grotesquely dominant. thank you for keeping this case going, and hopefully it will end well, so that industries relevant to the green transition as well as the main ngos and experts are also heard. the process of buying covid vaccines is also important. it is outrageous that we do not have access to the very central communication between the commission and the pharmaceutical industry. we've poured billions of taxpayer dollars into this case, and yet we're running it, but thank you for keeping it ready. i would like to say that the council is not a political party. if the citizens are to fulfil the treaty's promises of democratic participation, they must be able to follow the legislative work of their own governments. finally, i would like to see a real ombudsman after the next election - one capable, like emily and the others, of distinguishing between party representatives and judges, for example. so, good luck with that, and thanks for that, emily.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commissioner is not here to judge. the honourable speaker, the chairman! the last few years have been a series of scandals that have shaken the already disastrous reputation of the european union as an institution requiring decisive action, including by the european ombudsman. your involvement in explaining the uncertainties surrounding the commission's purchase of vaccines is worthy of recognition. the katargate affair is another side of the same coin. its settlement is a condition for the european parliament to regain credibility. we expect you won't let her silence the negligence that led to her. i would also like to draw attention to the brussels approval of a disastrous process of the new government taking power in poland. ignoring the constitution and laws, destroying the public media and, most outrageously, political imprisonment of opposition mps mariusz kamiński and matie wąsik are violations of the rules of democracy. i hope you will find the courage to speak out on the hypocrisy, double standards and extreme politicization of the european institutions.
madam president, colleagues, ombudsman, commissioner, being a longstanding member of the petitions committee, i of course have to say that these last two years we have had an excellent work and watched the excellent work of the ombudsman. i am speaking is the last of the round of all political groups, and it is very rare in our house that all are united in very, very high appreciation of your work. you are the best ombudsman of all times – and i’m not speaking very often such words. of course, the report by mr jahr is very, very implicit, as always, and we can understand just from this report how much was done by the ombudsman and which problems are the more essential ones. i think they are mentioned just in paragraph 20 and 21 and concern, as many of us have told already, transparency and the qualification of documents, because we know that the problem was how to compare messages. there it is written in black and white, the position of the committee. i hope we will vote in plenary the same statement that regulation 1049 of 2001 covers all work-related texts, including messages, and they must be transparent.
i consider the ombudsman, the honourable member, a very important body within the european union. the european ombudsman, elected by the european parliament, is empowered to take complaints in virtually any case of maladministration by the institutions or bodies of the european union, with the exception of the court of justice in the exercise of its judicial powers. in this context, madam ombudsman, i would like to highlight a few sub-areas of your jurisdiction. first, as regards the application of the correction mechanism for those who have difficulty accessing documents held by the european union authorities. i think you've done a lot of work in this area. for example, when you were complained by three civil society organisations that the european investment bank was publishing too little information about the projects it financed and also too late, you found the european investment bank's remedial measures to be insufficient and you also requested stricter control of the bank's activities. i also appreciate that you launched a public consultation on your own initiative in september 2022 to assess whether citizens have access to current environmental information. the aim was to find out how easily the public can obtain environmental documents or information and how citizens can participate more fully in the preparation and implementation of environmental policies. during the consultation, your office received 18 replies and was to take follow-up measures in 2023. i believe that the information found has been useful and that the authority will also reflect it in improving its own practices in this area.
madam president, i would like to congratulate ms o’reilly and her office for the crucial work they’re doing in addressing our citizens’ concerns – a european administration that is responsive to their needs is key to protecting their rights. it was a real pleasure and an honour to work together. the european ombudsman was and is our constant ally in defending the citizens. the report that we are about to adopt offers many examples of the way in which we often join forces. there is one aspect i would like to highlight, also in my capacity as rapporteur of the european parliament for the anti-corruption directive, the fight against corruption. corruption is, as you so aptly put it, ms o’reilly, during the launch event of the eu anti-corruption network that we attended together, a kind of poison in the body politic. it is vital also to address those insidious forms of poison which are conflicts of interest, revolving doors and lobbying. we appreciate your work in this respect. we appreciate your criticism, as it pushes us every time to do more, to fight this poison and defend our citizens’ rights.
madam president, mrs o'reilly, i have supported you from day one and i will continue to support you today. this is tudor ciuhodaru, a doctor, emergency physician in iasi, romania, the nicolae oblu emergency clinic hospital. when we met, we talked about the 21st century being about human rights. among them, the right to health and the right to education, which have been little respected in this pandemic. mrs. o'reilly, we have two more elephants in the room: one about getting vaccines and one about side effects. despite the fact that we have asked the coronavirus commission to have the european commission and vaccine manufacturers present, this has not happened today either. in my country, there's a huge scandal about a billion euros spent on vaccines that went to the garbage can and about the side effects of those vaccines. so, mrs. o'reilly, i have every hope, and that's why i'm going to support you from now on, that these problems will be solved and you know that in me you always have a supporter, because the only healthy option is always a primary care physician and what can happen in europe, and from this collaboration we can make things go, and transparency is a must, whether you're a member of the european commission or a member of a pharmaceutical company.
mr vice-president, mr commissioner, mr schmit, esteemed representatives of the eu council, quality jobs are jobs that allow people to live a decent life, whatever their field of activity: a salary that can cover their expenses, pay their bills, not worry about tomorrow. but for quality jobs, we need quality education, tailored to the needs of the individual, but also connected to the demand for the workforce. there is a need for an education system that prepares young people for the labour market but also provides continuing training for adults. however, quality jobs also depend on a number of factors to consider. we cannot ignore the fact that what was a quality job 30, 40 years ago in the european union, for example, no longer allows a person the same quality of life. we need a real analysis and a cold and clear analysis of the labour market as a whole, commissioner, and this should be a priority for all of us at european level.
on behalf of the left group. – mr president, this is a massively important topic. i used to get hope when i’d see the phrase ‘just transition’. but i have to say, every time i see the phrase ‘just transition’ at the moment, i feel like puking, because i’m not seeing any justice in this. i’m seeing elderly people going in, paying eur 5 for little bags of wood, paying massive money for stuff with carbon tax on it – which is a good idea if it comes back to the poor people – but i’m not seeing it coming back to the people who need it. farmers must be paid for public goods if there is to be a just transition. so when the commission comes up with a plan to restore nature, but doesn’t provide money for it, or even a realistic possibility of finding money for it, how can you be surprised when farmers baulk at it? now, some people will tell me there is money and some people have an idea of what you can live on. i met department officials last week and they tried to convince me by telling me that some people are getting eur 4 000 a year. there are children of officials around here who get more than that in pocket money. why would they get excited about eur 4 000 a year? and i’ll finish by saying: they said there were 112 farmers in a certain scheme. the five people in the room were earning more out of their jobs than the 112 farmers put together. there is no justice if you don’t pay for it, and there’ll be no just transition if you don’t pay for it, and i bloody well will not support it.
i am not sure what the commission is going to do. and i would like to point out that sometimes we think that food will come to the canteen where we pick it, but in fact it's the people, the farmers, the farmers that i would like to support from this place who prepare the food that we eat every day. these are the people of work. these are the people who bring us daily bread to eat, and we should support them. we should not forget when we talk about transition, the transition to a green economy. we just keep adding new regulations, new things that they have to keep meeting, but then we forget that we should support them. we can't just keep putting pressure on them. we really need to support farmers, farmers, because we're saying at the same time that we want to keep people in the regions, that we want people to stay in those rural areas. then we support cities and we say we support young farmers, but we keep giving them new and new things that they need to fulfill more and more, and we're not really helping them. so let's think about the regulation, and actually, everything we do for the future. how does that affect those people at work, the people who actually bring us that food? because when they leave, we won't have anything to eat.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. the commission has not yet decided on the basis of the draft budget. but that doesn't mean we're complacent and that we've done everything right in the last few years. but i think we've been sending good signals over the last few months. the use of plant protection products is guaranteed. the financial planning security for farmers in the cap budget is ensured until 2028. there's common sense in the woods. the wood biomass will also remain renewable at european level. we are on a path to better protect the pastures with the commission president's proposals to reduce the protection status of the wolf. and the best news is that frans timmermans has left brussels. he has been caught up in his ideological politics. but, commissioner, there is still a task to be done, and you in particular can do what you can do in the coming months: start the shutdown. the current situation in the field of food security makes it impractical to shut down farmers, with a 4% cut for farmers. this would also be a significant increase in the incomes of farmers and a significant aid and signal in these times.
mr president, the agricultural sector, which is generally so patient, has been barricaded across europe for no reason. the reason is a green transition programme, which is itself important to promote fairness. it must be remembered that the transition must not be a penalty for farmers or the natural resources sector. on the contrary, we must give incentives, because the natural resources sector is the only sector that is carbon-intensive and it must also provide innovative solutions to accelerate the transition. but the main thing is food production, and we cannot take food security for granted. the commission has therefore decided to extend the aid to the agricultural sector and to the young farmers, who are committed to the future. the agricultural sector is already heavily regulated and future decisions will need to pay more attention to the fact that the legislation also provides financial security for farmers. the market revenue must also be strengthened by all means.
mrs president, ladies and gentlemen, the concerns of the european farmers on strike are the same as those of the italian farmers and they have the same cause: the environmental impact fueled by the european commission. in italy, the fruit and vegetables sector produced 40% less, the zootechnical sector 30% less; an estimated decrease in income for agricultural holdings of 60%; millions of families are at risk. what is europe doing? with the excuse of protecting the environment, he treats farmers like criminals. if europe does not support those who work, those who produce income, those who pass on old traditions and fill the plate, it has no meaning.
- your honor, madam president, i would like to thank you. the main reason for the german farmers' protests is that the politics of berlin and brussels have in recent years abandoned agriculture, abandoned farmers, even made them enemies, and increasingly taken unrealistic measures from a rigid, ideologically based ivory tower. this is especially true of agricultural workers who have become targets of extreme green policies in recent years and have been labeled criminals. this is not right. the farmers are our partners. agriculture is important in europe and greening can only be done in partnership with farmers and agricultural workers. no measure can be taken that puts them in an impossible position, undermines their competitiveness and generally ignores their interests. in hungary, we take their interests into account. we consider the owners partners. the government and the farmers' union is rock solid. last year alone, we were able to provide them with a record amount of 3.4 billion euros in aid. we'll keep doing this. i would like to suggest a similar positive approach to berlin and brussels. farmers, agriculture, our allies, we have to work with them.
madam president, commissioner, honourable members, today the agricultural sector in the european union is affected by inflation, drought, floods, unemployment and the war in ukraine, making it profoundly unpredictable for tomorrow. from romania to germany and france, farmers, whose only weapon was the protest, left their home, table and family, going out into the street at -10°, to cry out their impotence in the face of the impossibility of continuing their activity. i wish, commissioner, you would have a clearer message in your speech to those on the street today. of course, we must support those who fight for freedom, but let us not forget the european farmers who are fighting for survival and to guarantee our food security. the emergency reserve has proved insufficient, commissioner. i therefore call on the european commission to immediately bring in new financial resources to be made available to farmers, to accelerate the process of equalizing subsidies between farmers in eastern and western europe, and to grant a derogation from gaec 7 and gaec 8. commissioner, if you have to amend the basic act, amend it, but you cannot leave this request from farmers in the european union unresolved. at the same time, i call on the extremist parties not to go on the pain and needs of farmers to make political capital for their own benefit.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a report on the situation in the mediterranean. many european farmers are now demonstrating to express their disappointment with the agricultural policy. they are angry at the market power of the food retail trade, which grabs valuable food and does not pay decent prices. they are faced with new requirements for animal and environmental protection which are necessary but whose additional costs are not being paid. and they fear unfair competition, even within the common market, because there are different standards. i am not going to say that the commission has not yet done anything about the situation in the netherlands. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. and at the same time, we need financial support, especially for small and medium-sized businesses and family businesses. we have to make sure that the community's agricultural policy is implemented in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the common agricultural policy. the european union, which is now working for small and mediumsized enterprises, needs to acknowledge this. and the afd, which is no longer in the debate, i want to say that as long as your policy programme says that you want to leave agriculture to the market and not to receive subsidies, you don't have to be a savior at all. you're the opposite.
madam president, i want to address the farmers and good-faith transporters in romania and throughout the union who are protesting these days. your requests are justified and justified, whether they relate to national or european decisions. by its inaction, the commission risks blowing up a justified measure, linked to the union's climate ambitions, but implemented with superficiality and without vision. yes, we need better management of natural resources, soil quality, water, biodiversity. yes, we need to help ukraine export cereals to areas where it needs them, but we need to do this together with farmers, who need to be consistent when we ask them to invest massively and in the short term in green production technologies, given that they already have high production costs for energy, fuel, fertilizer and still have to cope with market disruptions. the farmers' protests, which are set to spread in several member states, are an alarm signal and call for reasonableness, vision and a clear perspective to ensure economic and social survival, while implementing reasonable and feasible environmental and climate action.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, colleagues, there were obviously major irregularities in the elections in serbia, from the purchase of votes, the subsequent insertion of ballots in the ballot boxes and the pressure on voters, to the buses that brought voters from other parts of serbia to belgrade, where local elections were also held. in some houses in belgrade, over 50 square meters were registered and more than 30 voters who, of course, did not live there, but had to register to vote there. thus, serbian political representatives are bringing serbian voters to the elections in croatia. and while croats were left without a representative in the serbian assembly this time, it certainly will not happen to serbs in croatia because they have guaranteed three seats in the croatian assembly which for years, to make the paradox greater, directly decide on the parliamentary majority. of course, the citizens of serbia can freely choose who they want, but i don't see how croatia could ever vote for serbia's entry into the european union.
on behalf of the id group. i am quite shocked by the organisation of this debate on the elections in serbia, which once again reveals the political bias in this parliament. what exactly are you accusing the serbs of? the elections were held at the request of the opposition itself. the election process was the closest-looking in serbia's history with more than 5,000 observers present. the osce only identified 13 serious irregularities and approved 93% of the voting operations. with such figures, the outcome of the vote cannot be called into question. but it's not the facts, it's the ideology that motivates you. what's the problem, then? is this the victory of president vučić and therefore the defeat of your political friends, the opposition that you do not digest? and so, is that why the european union is trying to destabilize serbia? marinika tepić, the leader of the serbian opposition, boasted yesterday in the press that the debate today is at her request. once and for all, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not responsible for deciding serbia's internal affairs or interfering in its politics. every country is free, sovereign and independent, even when you don't like the democratic choices it makes. it's called democracy. so, my colleagues, i come from a movement that, in 50 years of existence, has never challenged the legitimacy of the results of an election. let me be happy with the result of these elections, in which the serbian people have freely chosen their destiny, and wish president vučić every possible success for the good and future of serbia.
madam president, commissioner, it is very unfortunate that here in the european parliament, the same recipe is being used against serbia that has been used against hungary since 2010, where the leftist liberal opposition tries to turn domestic political failures into success not through democratic elections, but with external help. but just as this tactic failed, in case of hungary, it won’t work in the case of serbia either. but there is a difference. hungary is already a member state, while serbia has not yet joined the eu. but as we can see, the discrediting campaigns have already begun here in the european parliament. in recent years, the image and credibility of the eu has greatly decreased in all countries of the western balkans, not just because of the hesitancy or rigidity of the union, but also because of these overly critical, biased opinions. we in the fidesz delegation are convinced that these debates are counterproductive and damaging, and this house must show more respect and understanding towards serbia.
madam president, i support the european integration of serbia and i think it is an option. the idea of the european union is to overcome the hostility imposed on us by the ideologies of the past. serbia has a serious influence on most of the western balkans, which increases its responsibility. in addition to close cooperation with russia, we are not only observing the problems during the election process that the colleagues have mentioned but also the systematic undermining of the rights of ethnic communities. i'm just going to introduce you to one of the latest cases. on november 8, the day of the western rim, important for the bulgarian community in serbia, a group of civilian police officers raided the bulgarian cultural center in bosilograd. they're accusing director ivan nikolov of ethnic and religious hatred and taking all of the books of poet edwin sugarev's "the elegy for the land". ivan nikolov is facing 10 years in prison. meanwhile, edwin sugarev is barred from pursuing his cause in serbia. i am the author of the foreword to this book myself, and it does not in any way incite ethnic or religious hatred. unfortunately, in the serbian public space there is a continuous flow of hate speech against the bulgarian community. this is the same practice we observe in north macedonia with regard to bulgarians. and it must be made clear that the center is the same - it is the yugoslav elites and their successors who still occupy key positions in both countries. i wish the serbian people a speedy integration and a solution to all these problems of the past. serbia should be judged only by its actions, not by better written laws.
the european parliament's debate on the elections in serbia is justified because it is an election in a candidate country for membership of the european union. international observers have assessed the elections in serbia as an unfair election with numerous violations of democratic principles and electoral rules. it's also violating international agreements on minority protection. the short-term elections in serbia contribute to maintaining an atmosphere of emergency in society. this is the third parliamentary election in just four years, and all served as an instrument to strengthen the personal power of the president of the country. the serbian parliamentary elections have weakened parliamentarism and consolidated the autocratic power of aleksandar vucic. but this should not only be a discussion about the last election in serbia, but also about the european union's relationship with serbia. the commission has also taken the view that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the objectives of the common agricultural policy. serbia is also increasingly divided on its way to the european union, while support for putin's russia remains high.
madam president, there’s clear evidence of electoral fraud, and we have clear evidence of additional voters being brought in by buses into belgrade. even dead people have voted, and there’s clear evidence that this fraud was well organised, well ahead of the elections. these elections were not just influenced: they were clearly stolen. hundreds of thousands of serbian citizens have been protesting for free and fair elections, and rightly so, because serbians have the same right to demand free and fair elections and institutions that follow their constitutional obligations as all other european states. so i call for an international investigation into this election fraud, and i call on all member states not to accept this election result before we see a result of this international investigation, because there is no democracy without free and fair elections.
the commissioner is the president. your honor! it must be said very clearly, and perhaps it was not said, that serbia is a country that is being fought over in a geopolitical match between us, the west and russia. and of course there are many serbs who want to be closer to moscow than closer to the european union. the question is, what do we think? will we, as the union, try to westernize, to overthrow serbia, or will we turn our backs on it and push it de facto towards moscow? i think that in a certain sense of western interest, the european union, it's much better to be the first choice. of course, we can and should criticize some of the manifestations of serbian democracy, but we should not suddenly stop seeing the geopolitical interest, and that is the most important. we must be open to serbia, we must accept her into the european union as soon as possible.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. serbia is a wonderful country with a strong culture, with hardworking people. as i say again and again, serbia could be the west balkans' germany, the economic engine. it is the largest state with the strongest economy. what happens instead? aggression inside and out. commissioner reynders, you are here again for almost the whole week of the european commission's plenary session. i would like to ask you to give mr borrell, mr várhelyi, what you hear here in parliament. read the reports of the election observation missions as a commission. and don't be surprised no one can be surprised by the way the supposed elections have gone in serbia: if something acts like an authoritarian, undemocratic regime, if something reacts like an authoritarian regime, if something behaves like an authoritarian regime, then it might be an authoritarian regime. and that's the end of appetizing. i am not going to say that i am not going to vote for the amendments. let's help the people in serbia who want freedom. you deserve it, you deserve a european future. let us stand by these people and do our best to ensure that serbia has a good future under this regime.
- madam president, please! i'm speaking to you, ladies and gentlemen, the people of serbia. i cannot imagine the future of the european union without you and your countries as full members, but i am afraid that membership of the union is not a genuine strategic choice for serbia's national leadership. the search for a balance between the credibility of accession to the union by opening up the heads of state on the one hand and linking serbia to the intelligence structures of totalitarian states on the other becomes almost unreal, bizarre, ridiculous. the rhetoric of political top, political manipulation and overplay, evasion of accountability and, finally, numerous indications of irregularities during the december election process are increasingly distancing the country from the european union. the rhetoric of the political elite, the manipulations of the latter, is being exposed not only by international observers, but also by numerous ngos and you, the serbian voters. you, my friends, deserve a sound democracy, verified information and a free press, a working rule of law and a credible negotiating approach. remember that there are many honest interlocutors here in the european parliament, because we are trying to make you part of our family. - good luck with that.
mr. chairman, commissioner, we are in the midst of elections in serbia. it is still too early to draw any conclusions on their regularity until we receive the final report from odihr. in the meantime, it is important that all complaints are considered in accordance with the rules for the conduct of the elections. at this moment it is important for serbia's path to work on further steps towards democratizing the country and the electoral process, and above all public discourse. we also expect a faster government formation given the high representation of the ruling party in parliament. what concerns me primarily, as a croatian representative in the european parliament, wherever they are, is that serbia shows reciprocity in approaching and treating the croatian minority and that they are a shareholder in power when they are not already in parliament because of the electoral system. it is also important to open a dialogue on the issue of non-discriminatory use of the croatian language and respect for croatian cultural heritage and traditions in serbia. and finally, above all, to resolve the situation and finally to come to a reconciliation, to resolve the missing from the civil war. in these crucial moments of geopolitical change and disruption of the international system based on rights, serbia is at a historic crossroads. it's a big decision they're gonna make, and the way through it is through truth and reconciliation.
- madam president, please! mr. commissioner, and the honourable vice president! i come from slovenia and i can safely say that i know serbia quite well. and i myself am firmly convinced that for the welfare of the people living in serbia and for lasting peace in this part of europe, it is very important that serbia join the european union. accession to the european union is certainly conditional on respect for the fundamental principles of democracy in each country. pluralism in society, free media and, certainly, free and fair parliamentary elections as well as local elections are key elements. in the last election, there was quite a bit of a notice about how people from other parts of serbia came to belgrade, how voters from the republic of serbia came. i therefore hope and believe that it will be in the best interests of all that a final report on the fairness of these elections is drawn up as soon as possible. and on the basis of this report, the commission should also develop a strategy, evaluate these elections and develop a strategy for serbia's further rapprochement with the european union. i wish the serbs a successful and successful rapprochement with the european union, and i wish us a lot of wisdom along the way.
madam president, i was never in serbia, but my former assistant, jelena radaković, was from serbia, so i have an interest in it, and i am pleased that we are now in a position where we can analyse the elections. hopefully the report will be positive because i think enlargement as such for the eu is a very good thing. but also the hope of acceding to the european union one day sets in train reforms that may not otherwise happen without that. i would hope that the hope of being a member of the european union one day – when they see the benefits which many of their neighbours, including franc’s slovenia, have, having joined – will encourage them to bring an inclusive society where the rule of law is observed, respect for minorities, etc. that hope then, and those reforms, will become a reality when they join the european union one day. i think that would be great for the european union and great for serbia.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the debate today illustrates the importance the eu attaches to its relations with serbia as a candidate country in negotiating its accession. that is why we have clear expectations and why serbia is under particular scrutiny when it comes to the functioning of its democratic institutions and the rule of law. i took good note of your concrete request as regards the follow-up to a number of issues identified during the recent elections. please rest assured that rule-of-law reforms and improving the functioning of democratic institutions will remain at the core of the commission’s priorities in serbia’s accession negotiations. we have already provided substantial support to serbia in this respect and are ready to continue doing so in the coming period. it is up to serbia to deliver on those reforms on the basis of its strategic goal of eu integration.
in writing. beyond the debates on the recent elections in serbia, brussels cannot make a double word about the european vocation of that country. i am, of course, strongly opposed to the accession process in the western balkans. however, what if it is practically demanded that belgrade normalize its relations with kosovo, even though five eu member states do not recognize this entity? similarly, the validity of european requirements for possible alignment of sanctions policy with moscow can be questioned. this attitude could also explain the disillusionment of many serbs with the enlargement process. only 33% of them would support eu membership. a lasting peace in the region is in the interest of all and therefore excessive parties should be avoided which could rekindle tensions.
in writing. the situation in serbia following the parliamentary elections held at the end of last year raises increasing questions about its possibility of european integration. the december 2023 parliamentary elections saw numerous irregularities undermining the electoral process in the country - pressure on voters, mass re-registration and organised deportation of citizens of bosnia and herzegovina who voted illegally in the territory of the republic of serbia. the belgrade authorities also launched attacks against international observers and their findings. so the question arises: can serbia be part of the civilized western world and the european union, using stalinist methods of organizing and holding parliamentary elections? and that's not a precedent for serbia. for more than 100 years, belgrade has pursued a policy of genocide against bulgarians in the western provinces, deliberately refusing to develop economically and transportally this area, which is now on the territory of serbia. countless times the serbian authorities have prevented bulgarian citizens from entering karaibrod or bosilgrad to participate in cultural events or commemorative ceremonies. the suspension of free movement, the taking of books and the refusal to allow cultural and memorial events for the bulgarian minority in serbia only shows that belgrade is moving in the opposite direction to the european union.
in writing. the brussels guards of the european left, democracy and the rule of law have recently launched an attack on serbia, which resulted in the victory of the sovereign serbian progressive party in the free and democratic elections. we can rightly ask: what is the concept of democracy that only recognizes the outcome of democratic elections if it is in line with the non-liberal world, whereas, if it is not, when sovereign forces win, it immediately rushes to attack and abolish the rule of law? the attacks on the serbian government prove once again that the left forces cannot accept defeat and do not respect the will of the majority of voters, the outcome of democratic elections. he's humiliating people. this is in fact an exercise of political pressure on the serbian government for standing up for national sovereignty and national interests and not for the mainstream of what brussels is expecting. it is also using a double standard and attacking serbia on a political basis, as it does hungary, while listening deeply to real violations. this is irresponsible and contrary to european interests. in addition, unfounded criticisms could fundamentally undermine serbia's and the region's integration prospects and confidence in the eu institutions, while serbia's early eu accession would be key for the european union. it is time to end the double standard and restore a normal sense of democracy in europe.
in writing. on 17 december last year, parliamentary elections were held in serbia, which were followed not only by the osce international mission but also by meps, from whom the party of serbian president aleksandar vucic won. the osce international observers stated in their comments immediately after the elections that the elections were well organised technically and that freedom of expression and assembly, pressure on voters and the involvement of the president, as well as the systemic benefits of the ruling party, had also been adversely affected by the election process. if it turns out that the elections were accompanied by irregularities, it is up to the authorities in serbia to deal with it. everything should be properly investigated and resolved so that the outcome of the elections is unquestionable and that citizens can have confidence in democratic processes. however, as the final report of the osce on these elections is still pending, i consider this discussion a bit premature. it will be important that serbia, after adopting the osce final report, implement its recommendations as soon as possible, but certainly before the next election.
in writing. – president vučić has called the 17 december 2023 poll, ‘the cleanest and most honest’ in serbia’s history. international observers from osce odihr, however, concluded otherwise in their initial report, saying that the national vote was held under ‘unjust conditions.’ our own ep observation mission pointed out to serious irregularities – phantom voters, vote buying, one-sided media coverage, to name but a few. it is thus not surprising that citizens took to the streets, for over a month, in order to protest what they rightly perceive as stolen elections. opposition leaders, including marinika tepić, of romanian origin, have entered hunger strike, asking for the annulment of the results of elections for the belgrade city assembly. full support for their free voices! it is not the first time when we see in serbia manipulation during the elections. but the sheer scale of this manipulation should give us pause for thought, especially as it regards a candidate country. our union is a union of values, where civil and political rights are respected, and where citizens should choose freely their representatives. our institutions have a clear responsibility in denouncing the electoral abuses and making sure that the voters can express freely their will in serbia.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, has not yet been able to make a decision on the matter. faces of the same medal. an emergency that is forcing many young people to give up their professional and family futures and relocate their businesses. training and first-class housing must be included in the general services register; the commission considers that the aid granted to the undertakings is compatible with the internal market. it's not enough. let us take inspiration from some enlightened business models that have put workers' well-being at the heart of the business and encourage corporate welfare. adriano olivetti said: "i think the factory is for the man, not the man for the factory". the new european humanism starts here, with a new balance between life and work that fights brain drain and brings out its talents.
the commissioner has already said that the commission is not going to be able to take any action. let's face it. the forecasts for economic development in 2024 do not indicate a rapid improvement. that means there's a lot to do. this is why there is also a shortage of labour because not everything that needs to be done can be done. and even if, despite the poor economic situation, there are contracts that cannot be completed, then this is not a good forecast for economic development. it is therefore necessary to have the best working conditions for young people and all people to enjoy working, to enter the labour process. it also needs a turn away from populism, which says there could be a reduction in working hours. europe is the place in the world with the best social systems. but to maintain that, it takes a lot of value. we have to fight for it. and we need to get away from the idea that with less work, we can achieve more. it's just the opposite. the conditions must be right. it's now three-fourths of ten, as we say in austria. this is where the work is done, in the european parliament. it's got to be a work-style for everyone, but there's something to do around the clock.
madam president, you have talent or skills or not, the crisis has the same taste. what crisis? the job crisis. how many of you who are watching this debate have left the country or are you going to another country because you can't afford a daily supermarket basket? that's what's happening in romania. almost 50,000 romanians left romania permanently in 2022 to work in another eu country - the highest number in the last thirty years, the population of entire cities such as hunedoara, bârlad or deva. but think about what it would mean for these cities to disappear altogether. if i told you that the european union has the solution, it has the money to invest and to train talent, to train professionally. we need to see that the european year of skills is actually working, that people in rural and disadvantaged areas are starting to have employment opportunities, that a reason to develop, to be helped to learn. a helping hand for the future, this must be the european year of skills, not just a degree, but a solid foundation for the economy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, there has been much talk in this mandate about how harmful fishing is to the environment and far too little about the fact that it and aquaculture are not only the cleanest source of animal protein we have at our disposal, but also a reductive weapon in the fight against climate change. however, in order to use it effectively, the sector needs a proper review, which gives it the strength to overcome the challenges of the past and the strength to face those of the future. in my country, romania, for example, the fishing industry is trapped in troubled and dangerous waters. the pandemic years have kept fishermen ashore. then came the war from ukraine, which spread to the black sea, and mines floating in the drift, reached the romanian exploitation zones, endangering the ships and the lives of the crews. so our fishermen couldn't go out to sea anymore. during this time, not only the economy has suffered, but the bioeconomy as a whole, because while russia's invasion has caused considerable financial losses to fishermen who no longer have access to fish stocks, the ecosystem in the black sea has been unbalanced by the proliferation of predatory species that have caused significant damage to aquatic biodiversity. so the report we are voting on today should not be seen in any way as a weapon between what has unfortunately become a struggle between the interests of the sector and those of the environment. it must be understood as a proposal for reconciling the two in the new reality, one in which the sector is ageing rapidly, in which safety on board ships must be improved urgently and in which discriminatory attitudes towards fisheries and, of course, agriculture must be eliminated. because both, i repeat, play a fundamental role not only in securing our food, but also in protecting and preserving the environment. i therefore ask the commission to approach the future of the common fisheries policy realistically and pragmatically, as the times demand. i thank the rapporteur for the effort and understanding he has shown and i hope that today's vote will keep the balance of the compromise reached.
madam president, dear colleagues, i am pleased that we debate the report on the situation of human rights every year, because we can honestly analyze what we have achieved, where we have failed and what we can improve. we can consider ourselves privileged because we live in a european union where human rights, fundamental rights and freedoms are respected. democracy, equality, the rule of law are fully shared and non-negotiable values. but we have a responsibility to turn our attention to areas where they are being trampled by authoritarian regimes, subject to dictatorial interests. one such example, which i bring to the attention whenever i have the opportunity, is the human rights situation in the transnistrian separatist region of the republic of moldova, where, with the support of the russian federation army, basic rights such as freedom of expression or the right to the romanian language are constantly violated.
madam president, esteemed colleagues, this parliament must condemn in the clearest terms the terrorist attacks orchestrated by hamas against the citizens of israel and against the peace in this region. terrorism can never be justified anywhere. it is also important to distinguish between the palestinian people, the need to protect and respect the terrorist organization hamas and its terrorist actions. in these times of tension, let us not forget that international humanitarian law must be our guide in any conflict. both parties involved must take the necessary measures to avoid the spilling of civilian blood. the european union must continue to promote political and diplomatic dialogue and contribute to the deflation of tensions in the middle east. together with our international partners, we must do everything we can to bring peace and security to this region without compromises.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i come to you today to underline the importance of extending the mandate of the european labour agency in the light of the changing employment landscape in the european union. in 2021, around 10 million working-age citizens of the european union chose to live and work in another member state. this labour mobility, which drives economic growth, is compounded by the fact that we have 27 different labour market regimes. the european labour agency was established to facilitate cross-border cooperation for the effective application of labour law. however, the agency has not yet reached its full operational potential due to the voluntary nature of the cooperation of the member states and its limited powers. the social security issue at european union level remains therefore a major challenge. it is time to overcome barriers and strengthen a europe of work based on fairness and solidarity.
mr president, dear colleagues, our support for ukraine is as important as it was on the first day of the aggression. though the situation at the battlefield is a stalemate, the eu has proven that it will be forged in crisis, as jean monnet said. just see the collective defence efforts, energy imports, and sanctions. but we need to do more. the council’s decision last week is a strong message from the eu in all directions – to ukraine, which is fighting for freedom, to russia, which counted on the fatigue of the eu with the war and perhaps on its general collapse, but also to washington – that the eu does not give up its efforts for kyiv and that the us must also overcome internal divisions and continue supporting ukraine. with this decision, eu engagement gains new momentum. in this super-election year, the eu should confirm at the global level that it still has a relevant significance. slava ukraini.
mr president, it has been two long years of an illegal and cruel war waged by russia against ukraine. it is imperative that we continue to support this brave country. we are witnessing a war of attrition, where the supply of ammunition is crucial. russian troops are using projectiles in a much larger quantity than ukrainian troops: five times as many, it seems. this difference must not persist. unfortunately, russian munitions production machinery is leading us, which is very worrying. as the united states did in the early years of world war ii, the european union must be the arsenal of democracies. all member states must contribute to this military aid. i am concerned by the recent news that military aid from countries such as france, italy or spain has not exceeded 1 billion euros. we must also encourage the development of the european defence industry, especially since we do not know who will occupy the white house in ten months. i also welcome the fact that the european council last week gave the green light to the mechanism for ukraine, which will allow us to increase our financial assistance to the country. i hope that washington will do the same and soon unlock funding to ukraine.
mr president, mr vice-president šefčovič, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. for almost two years, putin has been waging war in europe against the ukrainian people and their freedom. but the message from the eu to the imperialists in the kremlin is clear: we support ukraine as long as putin needs to. i thank chancellor scholz personally for making this possible including sending viktor orbán to drink coffee. the german federal government has not only been repeatedly attacked by the epp from this point of view and today for allegedly making too little of germany's performance for ukraine. that's always been wrong. but today it is important to note at this point that no other eu state is doing more to maintain ukraine's defense capability than the federal republic of germany. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to make sure that your governments also increase their efforts on the ground. this includes institutionally the absence of unanimity in foreign and security policy decisions in the council of the european union. this would be the decisive means of countering blackmail from within and a decisive signal for the eu's will to secure its sovereignty.
mr president, this horrendous war on our continent was not supposed to last that long. putin thought it would be quick. we thought ukraine wouldn’t stand its ground, and most thought our drive in solidarity as a union wouldn’t last either. but here we are in a reality where everyone was wrong in the initial planning, except ukraine and its brave people, who believed in their cause from day one and who fought and died every single of these 700 days. today, our task must be crystal—clear – ukraine’s resilience is non-negotiable. our peace is no longer a natural given right. for both of these reasons, we must equip our union with what it takes to become a credible, long—term security provider. an articulated defence industry vision, the instruments to deliver it, and a defence commissioner to keep all this together. now, in the immediate term, we must put our money and weapons where our political mouth is. that is how ukraine can win this war.
thank you all for your contribution to the discussion. the discussion is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 7 february 2024. written declarations (article 171)
in writing. with this more flexible framework for new genetic techniques such as crispr technology, we will enable farmers to use more robust crops, which, for example, thrive better in long periods of drought or extreme rainfall and are better resistant to diseases that require less pesticide use. this not only contributes to our food security but also to our fight against global warming. this proposal is an important priority under the belgian presidency. the document shows that the political debate can indeed go beyond itself and that biotechnology can be embraced as a full-fledged tool in agriculture, both on the farmer's side and on the environmental side.
the agenda calls for discussion of the question with a request for an oral reply to the council on the call on the council to take all necessary measures to reach agreement on the european crossborder mechanism dossier and to open negotiations with parliament, as tabled by mr gozi, on behalf of the renew europe group (o-000003/2024 - b9-0008/2024) (2024/2546(rsp)).
the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to take measures to ensure that the community's citizens are able to live in a safe and secure environment. in may 2018, the european commission proposed a mechanism to help its citizens overcome legal and administrative barriers between neighbouring countries. but negotiations have not yet begun. now we can and must do it. in september 2023, the european parliament asked the commission to review its proposal in order to make it simpler and more effective. this is what we called the border regions instrument for development and growth in the eu bridgeu. all this has been made possible by the constant support of the chairman of the regional development committee, younous omarjee, and other political groups, to whom i would like to thank. it is here, the europe of concrete solutions we are bringing. on 12 december 2023 the commission finally put forward a new proposal, which is very good news, and i thank it. we are ready to start negotiations with the council as soon as possible to make this mechanism a reality. this could help create jobs and save a lot of money. is the council aware that this mechanism could help increase employment and growth opportunities for border nationals? is it aware that this mechanism is voluntary, that it does not create new obligations or add bureaucratic burden, and that it would have no impact on international agreements on crossborder regional cooperation already in force in the member states, such as the benelux or the nordic council? is the council finally determined to start negotiations with the parliaments quickly so that this mechanism can become a reality before the european elections? madam minister, we have great confidence in the belgian presidency of the council to achieve these very important results.
president-in-office of the council. i would like to thank mr gozi for asking this question. thank you for asking this question, which allows me to take stock of the commission's revised proposal to strengthen the single market by tackling legal and administrative obstacles in europe's crossborder regions. among these obstacles faced by citizens, businesses and public administrations in these regions are different technical standards, or national administrative and legal provisions, which do not take into account the crossborder dimension. it is known that these obstacles can have an impact on the development of infrastructure and the functioning of crossborder public services. barriers of this nature impede the lives of crossborder communities, for example by reducing access to healthcare services, including in emergencies, and limiting their ability to coordinate disaster response and collaborate on joint infrastructure projects. like the european parliament, member states have also expressed their support for reducing these legal and administrative barriers. abolishing them would considerably improve the functioning of the eu's single market, which remains the basis of the european engine and a real priority for our presidency. i should like to remind you that the belgian presidency has also asked the former italian president of the council, enrico letta, to produce a report on the internal market soon. i think that the reduction of administrative obstacles at the financial level will certainly be at the heart of its report. as regards the commission proposal, the member states had expressed reservations about the legal implications of the mechanism initially envisaged by the commission, considering that it did not allow such problems to be solved. we welcome the fact that the commission has put forward a new proposal for a more flexible regulation while leaving the member states the choice to make use of the mechanism on a case-by-case basis and according to the legal or administrative obstacle encountered and therefore concerned. we have just begun work within the council to analyse this new proposal and its practical implications for the member states. this work will certainly take some more time, which will affect the timetable of our work and may delay the start of negotiations at parliament level. we thank the commission and the european parliament, and in particular the committee on regional development, for the work that has already been done in this area, and we will of course continue to be in touch with each other to advance this proposal together.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the commission. i welcome the fact that the commission has tabled an amended proposal for the mechanism for the review of crossborder barriers, and i am sure that it is taking this house seriously. we adopted a legislative initiative report here in september last year. i was also given the opportunity to work with mr gozi on this. the council has unfortunately for years been sending the old proposal, and i hope that we will now have a whole new activity. the whole point is that the council does not always take the situation at the borders very seriously. this is also true of other things, such as interreg. but i think, and i say this as someone who lives at the border and also at a very special border, like the burner border: europe is also starting at its borders. i think we need to protect border cooperation and we need to improve it. there are minor bureaucratic and legal differences on both sides of the border, and this often leads to major obstacles when administrations, when the people want to work together. this applies to different requirements in crossborder public transport, access to health systems, mutual recognition of training and much more. we have now a new, amended commission proposal. i think that this proposal, madam minister, takes into account the specifications and ideas of the council, especially in the areas of subsidiarity and proportionality. i would really like to see this move quickly, especially faster than last time, so that we can really get this regulation on track. i think that would be a real step forward for our european cooperation.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, colleagues, the cross-border cooperation mechanism is a voluntary system to facilitate cooperation between neighbouring european land regions by applying the most favourable laws when it comes to project implementation. this proposal aims to help remove the legal and administrative barriers faced by a large part of the more than 2 million cross-border workers and, of course, to increase the gross domestic product of these regions, including cross-border regions. all studies show that they could be 8.7 percent richer than they are now. citizens, businesses and public authorities in border regions face specific difficulties, in particular in terms of health services, labour market regulation, taxes, business development, as well as barriers to differences between administrative cultures and national legal frameworks. madam minister, i too count very much on the belgian presidency. you know very well, for example, that there are no language barriers between belgium and france. but while there are investments and there are european funds, the fact that there is different legislation makes it much harder to implement these projects. i am very sorry that this proposal that i put forward as european commissioner in 2018, here in the european parliament, was so late. i would also like to stress that crossborder cooperation can also bring peace between regions where there are conflict zones. i therefore thank you all, and in particular mr gozi, for accepting the amendments which will also allow neighbouring countries, such as moldova, ukraine and serbia, to implement the voluntary mechanism. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal and, of course, respectfully ask the council not to go further on this subject and to begin the necessary trialogue on the matter, which is so important. because, as we know very well, 30% of the population of the european union lives in these cross-border areas.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, dear minister, dear colleagues, european citizens have become much more cooperative than the governments of the member states. they are more adaptable to change and agree to move to work anywhere in the european union. this strong fluidity in border regions where citizens live in a country and work in a neighbouring country, where they shop anywhere along the border and their social life takes place on both sides of the border needs to be improved. under these conditions, it is natural for member states to make the necessary changes and to work together to adapt legislation to the real needs of citizens, even if this means adapting education systems, public health systems or adapting legislation and procedures in local government. we, as meps, need to draw attention to the need for change for european citizens and to start a real dialogue with the council of the european union to make that change. thank you, mr. colleague, gozi, for this report!
mr president, commissioner, the claim to reduce eu carbon emissions by 90% by 2040, including by closing down gas and coal-fired power plants, will condemn the european economy to bankruptcy and citizens to poverty and hunger. in school, we learned that carbon dioxide is the oxygen of plants, which through the process of photosynthesis absorb carbon dioxide and remove the oxygen that animals and humans need to live. this connection between man and nature has worked since the world. but today, under the leadership of ursula von der leyen, we are witnessing the imposition of a utopian, criminal ideology that requires us to completely destroy our way of life in the name of a madness: zero carbon emissions. zero carbon emissions means the destruction of the planet, because plants produce oxygen by consuming carbon dioxide. moreover, carbon dioxide is a gas that makes up 0.04 percent of the atmosphere. of this 0,04%, a tiny fraction is man-made. of this small percentage produced by humans, an even smaller percentage of carbon emissions is produced by the eu. the farmer's fight against this insane climate utopia, which will produce poverty and hunger in the eu, is just. that's why i'm calling you to join them. (the spokesperson agreed to answer a question referred to him in accordance with the procedure of the blue card issuer)
blue-card answer. – i am glad that you asked that question. so you want to convert this debate about climate change into a theological argument. the bible says that god created the earth and the man, but gave the man the power to work the earth and make a living out of that work. so what you’re proposing right now here is clearly violating god’s command to respect the earth, but to use it. let me ask you something in reply: how can you argue that 0.04 % of the carbon dioxide can produce all these bad things that you are all talking about? if we will not be able to produce energy anymore using coal and gas, we will be relying on gas from russia. is that what you want? you haven’t replied to that yet.
mr president, we are again discussing the water crisis, although the commission remains suspicious of the superficial approach. last evidence: the derogation granted for the grazing land whereby farmers must establish secondary crops. if the commission had been given a thorough report, it would have known that this is not possible. fixed during those crop periods, summer, it doesn't rain much anymore. in romania, for example, 30% of the country's area is affected by severe drought. in 2023, in some areas, not a single drop of rain fell for 300 days. what's that secondary culture that needs water so much to grow from? from irrigation, the european executive would say. yes, if romania, a country with a significant agricultural production, were to be granted not only a third as now, but the entire irrigation area of 2 million hectares of unirrigated arable land. at least for the savings that would be made on the drought relief. so the water crisis is not just driven by climate change or lack of funding, but also by a lack of political will. it costs nothing, but when it doesn't exist, it costs a lot. see thousands of farmers taking to the streets across the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all thank you very much for this lively debate, which shows once again the importance of this topic. it also reflects the complexity – and there are no easy solutions – but thank you very much for a very clear call for a new eu blue deal. let me just reiterate that the initiative that we will put forward will, first of all, focus on a number of immediate actions that can be taken by the current commission, while also mapping the key issues and launching a public debate. however, this will not prejudge the political choices that will have to be made by the new college as from the autumn of 2024. the aim of the water resilience initiative is, first of all, to take stock of the main water challenges and opportunities faced by the eu and outline a series of immediate actions, as well as to include the stakeholders, involving eu institutions, member states, relevant stakeholders, local and regional authorities, private sectors, ngos and academia but also, most importantly, keeping the political momentum. so the debate in this house is extremely important to keep that momentum going. the initiative now is being developed around the three key objectives: protect and restore the water cycle; towards an eu water-smart economy; and clean water and sanitation for all. this is with three enablers: governance, finance and investment; research and innovation; and an international section. for each we are in the process of identifying concrete, immediate actions that can be taken by the current commission, as i have said. now, there was also an important question as regards the data. so, absolutely, the commission of course uses the data and we base our recommendations, our further work, on the data that the member states feed to the commission, and then that data, of course, is used by the environment agency. our planet is the engine of the water cycle, and we have to look after this engine. if we want adequate supplies of clean water, we need to nurture and restore the ecosystems that purify water and hold it in store – not just our soils and our forests, our rivers and wetlands, but our marine waters too, where coastal communities depend on non-polluted water for fisheries, aquaculture and tourism. success will depend on scaling up action and funding to create a water-smart economy which optimises the use of scarce resources, meeting the needs of current and future generations. in agriculture, this means a more efficient use of water, wastewater reuse, soil management and vegetation cover, drought resistant crops and restoration of damaged areas. in energy and transport, it means preparing for disruptions to hydropower, plant cooling and waterborne transport. for drinking water, it means promoting leakage reductions with additional supply infrastructure as a last resort. adaptation solutions will be required in every aspect of life, in every sector, on every time scale. nature-based solutions are particularly well-suited for climate resilience to water impacts, and where that’s not feasible, let’s opt for hybrid green-grey solutions. lastly, we need wider recognition of the fact that water is a public good, so more must be done to deliver on the human right to safe drinking water and sanitation in the eu and globally. to achieve it, we need strengthened governance of water resources, increase awareness, to promote research and innovation, including digital solutions, and, of course, mobilising increased public and private funding. these investments must be part of the comprehensive strategic vision and hence the need for a water resilience agenda. the support of this house is going to be essential and crucial for delivering this agenda.
the debate is closed. declarations in writing (article 171)
in writing. we have debated the water crisis and the effects of drought on countless occasions during this term, but i find it disappointing that we are not achieving any notable results, even though the drought already causes €9 billion in damage annually in the european union. in the resolutions adopted by this plenary and to which i have contributed, i have called for three clear solutions. first, we need the concrete action and the european funding needed to combat desertification, a very serious phenomenon for both population and agriculture, which already affects 13 member states and is continuously expanding throughout europe. secondly, it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the financing provided to member states for the use in agriculture of alternative water sources such as treated urban waste water, groundwater and seawater desalination systems, as well as investments in the construction of reservoirs and water catchment systems. last but not least, and most importantly, i repeat this plenary call on the european commission to set up a european fund after 2027 to support member states in developing new efficient and smart irrigation systems and in modernising existing facilities.
for the s&d group. - mrs. speaker, please. the mandate has resulted in many important improvements in the working environment in europe. we have passed stronger legislation to better protect workers against asbestos, a new working environment strategy in europe and better conditions for seasonal workers and emergency personnel. we will now also take decisions to strengthen protection against carcinogens and dangerous chemicals such as lead and diisocyanates in the workplace. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr nikolai wilhelmsen, and my colleagues on the committee for their good cooperation. despite the great successes of the mandate, we still have a long way to go to protect europe's workers. in sweden, 62 people died in workplace accidents last year. that's the highest number in 12 years. every year, over 200 000 workers in europe die from work-related diseases caused by asbestos, quartz dust and hazardous chemicals. the zero vision of workplace fatalities should permeate everything we do. but it must also include life after the end of the working day. no worker shall be exposed to health risks that have consequences later in life. the training and competence requirements for those working with dangerous substances shall be strengthened with the help of the social partners. we're gonna stop the workplace scam. tougher requirements for safeguards in public procurement. workplace scams should never be able to give you a competitive advantage. we social democrats will always support a policy that puts workers' health above the corporate profit. our goal is clear. no one should risk getting sick or dying because of their work.
on behalf of the renew group. madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement illustrates our desire for a green transition that leaves no one behind: because it will protect millions of workers, particularly in the building renovation and battery and recycling sectors; because it will protect their jobs by not excluding them because of too high lead levels, while better monitoring them (we avoid what could have been a social plan); because it will protect entire sectors of activity the cultural heritage sector, for example by providing a transitional period for the protection of the essential measures of establishment; because it will protect the labour market in the field of women's participation in the prevention of discriminatory measures. it is also an agreement which illustrates our parliament's progressive ambition on occupational health. the agreement will give the european commission a mandate to start work to protect workers from all endocrine disruptors.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to finance the implementation of the community's internal market. the standard for lead in our bodies has not been revised for far too long. that's why we're lowering that permitted standard by at least four times now. the increasing production of, for example, electric cars and batteries will lead to more workers being exposed to lead. i do not understand why the member states could delay the introduction of this new standard by five years. because you don't put a rest button on the health of our employees. moreover, the new standard for women is still too high and could pose a risk for potential pregnancies. just as we're short on our hands in the climate transition, we're going to exclude women from green industry. i therefore continue to fight for better and stricter protection for both men and women. now, we have significantly increased protection against a whole crack of dangerous substances during this sitting. but in many factories, these workers are naturally exposed to several dangerous substances at the same time. there is no protection against that combined exposure today. the commission is now finally going to work on this. we're finally tackling the hormonal disruptors, too. that's been a demand of our unions for a long time. i will continue to fight for a safe workplace for all our employees in europe.
on behalf of the id group. the commissioner, madam president, is aware that france, which is a country of churches, basilicas and cathedrals, has the largest area of stained glass in the world, from the sainte-chapelle in paris to the magnificent stained glass, as can be seen in the basilica of saint-eupvre in nancy, in my region of lorraine. we are committed to this know-how because their beauty makes our country famous. unfortunately, like this beautiful industry, many sectors use lead, which poses major health problems for workers exposed to it. these problems exist in europe, but our country has been working for a long time to protect workers' health. we are not going to let the european union dictate new constraints without taking into account the reality. firstly, we believe that guarantees for companies are not sufficient. as with farmers, standards are set, and those who set them are never the ones who suffer them. for lead, it's the same. smes are sounding the alarm about the burst of regulations that are coming upon them every year. what are the second guarantees for our know-how? - none of them. if exemptions were originally provided for, nothing is said about them in the final version of this text. i have met many actors and can attest to the goodwill and efforts being made to find solutions. but we must be serious. in addition, craftsmen need time to adapt. to refuse to accept it is to sink them. political action is to weigh things and understand that by not offering any help, the european union is imposing on the peoples a very high standard. protecting our own is a priority. this is not only about health but also about our jobs. is that not a reasonable conclusion?
member of the commission. – madam president, first, i want to thank parliament for this very solid and large support. i think what we have all in mind is that nobody should really be exposed to health problems at his or her working place. this was, from the beginning of this mandate, one of our major objectives: to increase the protection in different areas. we were quite ambitious in that context, and we have achieved a lot. but i agree, we have not yet achieved what we have to achieve. so there is still a lot to do. i’m sure that, i hope at least, during the next mandate of the european parliament and the commission, we will continue on this track, because this is something where europe can make and makes a difference. a real difference. therefore i think we can be proud of what has been done, and especially also on this particular directive, which i hope will get a positive vote tomorrow. health and safety is an essential part of europe’s agenda, of europe’s social policy, and this should remain.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on quality traineeships in the eu (2024/2515(rsp).
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, young europeans are the most educated generation to date. their talent, skills and ideas will shape europe’s future. at the same time, our global economy is characterised by uncertainty and unprecedented fast changes. helping young people gain a foothold in the rapidly evolving labour markets therefore remains a priority for this commission. we have delivered a reinforced youth guarantee, a modernised european framework for vocational education and training and a new impetus for apprenticeships. together with parliament, we put the social dimension at the heart of the european year of youth and the ongoing european year of skills. the commission is committed to continuing to strengthen bridges that bring young people to the labour market, notably by exploiting the potential of hands-on, work-based learning. traineeships are an important pathway for young people to access the labour market. traineeships can provide a unique opportunity to learn on the job and to practically prepare for the world of work. they help improve their skills and increase their employability, and we see that trainees increasingly find traineeships in another member states. so, i’m really a bit shocked when some people talk about the cost of traineeships. the cost of traineeships. what an absurd approach to what should be considered to be the benefit of traineeships. because the benefit of traineeships is not just about trainees; it’s not just about young people. it’s also about companies. those who benefit from traineeships are also intelligent companies who give young people an opportunity and profit and take use of their knowledge, of their commitment and also of their sense of innovation. these are contributions to companies who benefit from these young people. that’s why traineeships have to be paid. they should not be just for free. it’s a way to recognise the contribution of young people. it’s also a form of respect for young people. that’s why also, i’m sure, many companies pay and those who do not pay should change their behaviour. therefore, this parliament has rightly stressed, by an overwhelming majority, that traineeships must be of quality and come with fair working conditions, including pay and a proper learning experience. and they should be accessible to all. this was also a clear call by the conference on the future of europe and youth organisations, and we are heeding this call. traineeships should not be a means of depriving people of their rights at work, or of replacing regular jobs. we need to combat precarious traineeships, not promote them. the commission is currently preparing an initiative to update the eu quality framework for traineeships to be presented before the end of this parliament’s term. we absolutely share the goals set out by parliament, and we will do our utmost to meet parliament’s requests while respecting – and we have no choice here – the boundaries set by the treaties. this will be the commission’s response to the parliament’s legislative own-initiative resolution. this will be a strong signal of our common political will to empower young people in a strong social europe and give them good prospects, instead of trapping them in precariousness.
thank you very much, commissioner. i would like to welcome maybe a very successful future trainee in this house, profiting from good working conditions, so welcome! i will now give the floor to the speakers from the political groups.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president, commissioner schmit, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a subject which affects the future of millions of young people in the european union: quality, decently paid internships. in the european union, for 3.7 million young people, internships are the first step in their careers. four out of five young people have gone through an internship, but things aren't so bright. young people often suffer from poor working conditions, lack of learning, unpaid or unable to access social or health insurance. in 16 of the 27 member states, there is at least no clear definition of an 'internship'. moreover, national legislation is not always in line with the minimum recommendations at eu level. another aspect is the financial situation. each third trainee receives no financial compensation. for many disadvantaged young people, internships, while producing results for employers, continue to be paid by young people. they are required to cover their accommodation, meals or other basic needs. many disadvantaged young people cannot afford to do an internship. those who need the most of a chance don't have the money to work for free. the european union provides member states with access to programmes that can be financed through the european social fund (esf), the recovery and resilience mechanism (erm), erasmus+, but this is not enough. in june last year, the european parliament made a decisive appeal to the labour committee for a directive. commissioner schmit, we look forward to the proposals of the european commission. it is time to show that the institutions of the european union really care about the future of young people.
mr president, commissioner, the global gateway initiative enables the european union, first, to structure its investments abroad; second, to direct them towards specific objectives, public policy objectives, in this case the green and digital transition; third, to make them more visible because one of our problems is the enormous fragmentation of our power, which reduces our visibility; and fourth, to give a narrative to action in terms of our investments abroad. it is therefore a very positive project. i am well aware of the impact it has on latin america, which was the big message released during the last eu-celac summit last july, with a sum of 54 billion euros, which we hope will have results. we know of good and very positive projects under the global gateway: the bella cable, the electrification of schools in colombia, the protection of the green amazon in brazil. but not only that: we need to continue the project beyond 2027. we need to think about invisible infrastructure, stability, social cohesion and security. and we need to work with our counterparts, listen to the governments we work with, listen to the economic and social transformations that are being made in latin america to end extractivism and to stake our efforts on the fight against inequality.
mr president, commissioner johansson, dear colleagues, weak economies make weak democracies, and weak democracies are susceptible to populist rhetoric inside or to blackmail and pressure from outside. and neither of these will stop. isolationist rhetoric will rise, as well as bullying for resources – pressure on the global trade and economic rules-based system. and while we are pressed ourselves to consider inward-looking autonomy, we cannot lose sight that free trade, economic integration and well-considered interdependence remain fundamental to attain our strategic objectives. global gateway is an important tool for that. investing wisely around the world, strengthening local economies in democracies in the process, means investing in the future of europe. make no mistake about it. china is following its interests, exporting its values and views of the world via trade, including in our own backyard. so let us also build and consolidate partnerships that further our values and the shared interests of our union and of our partners.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, dear colleagues, this debate on teachers is welcome because the school, teachers and students must be put back in the proper place in european society. schools must teach students not only how to read, write and count, but also how to be good and just people in society and how to love their country. perennial moral values are developed by learning the humanities, such as classical literature, history, geography, and critical and rational thinking is developed through real sciences, such as mathematics, physics, philosophy, logic. this eventually made the school a classic, developing personalities and great people of the world, when there were not even notebooks and perhaps no access to printed books. but we're seeing a paradigm shift in education today, where both teachers and students are seen as simple transmitters and receivers of information, like machines. a human emotional relationship is being created between teachers and students, which cannot be ignored. and i give you the example of the pnrr that the european commission imposed on romania. in romania's new education law, teachers are referred to as primary education providers and students are referred to as primary education beneficiaries. how long has a teacher, a man, been a provider and how long has a student been a beneficiary of information? such terms are specific to information services and certainly not to an education system, much more so to a system we want to have in europe. stop harassing teachers and students by implementing and promoting a sick ideology in schools, like gender ideology that confuses children so they don't know if they're boys or girls. europe, for its future, needs new generations to be well educated, and this can only be done by putting teachers back in their place and giving them the respect they deserve in society.
mr. president, madam commissioner, my fellow citizens, we are in the age of digitalization. we went through a health crisis and we saw what this break in the education system meant and how difficult it was for teachers to keep up and prepare the younger generation for the future. the advancement of technology offers us fantastic opportunities. unfortunately, not all regions in europe are able to take advantage of these opportunities, and in particular, we have high vulnerabilities in education. so i think it's essential to focus on new, creative policies that encourage quality education, that give teachers the comfort and confidence they need to do their jobs with honor and dedication. because i strongly believe that what europe deserves more today is a consistent investment in the status of the teaching staff, in the status of the teacher, who have the comfort to be able to provide quality education. this is the only way we can prepare europe for the future. if you look at pisa, you see how big the spillover and the differences are from country to country, from region to region. we're on the campaign trail. we all promise teachers that we'll make sure they get more money. we must also keep this commitment in our future term.
on behalf of the renew group. mr president of the meeting, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is an open and honest partner for third countries who want to cooperate with us in the economic field. this is a decision that directly benefits consumers, european citizens, by providing access to products made in other countries, to a wider range of products. it's natural, in the context of a global economy, to have agreements, free trade agreements and more. but it is absolutely necessary that these treaties are adapted to the needs and requirements of the economy and of our society. i understand the special importance of the european commission's specialists and the technical aspects they are very good at, but the agreements are not pure mathematics. these agreements must meet the requirements of european society and our priorities. it is therefore very important that the european parliament has a decisive say in the negotiation and conclusion of these treaties as the only political institution that directly represents the will of citizens. it is therefore important that the european parliament is consulted at all stages of the negotiations on future treaties, both free trade and bilateral or multilateral cooperation, such as the horizon programme, one of the most important scientific and innovation cooperation agreements. i hope that in the future we will see more cooperation and openness from the european commission, and that the procedures respect not only the letter but also the spirit of the european treaties.
