ms modig, would you accept that, or would you insist that we have it this week?
ok, so we will vote on the request by the left group to have a debate on this issue this week. (parliament approved the request)so the debate is introduced. for wednesday, the id group has requested that a commission statement on rural unrest and farmers’ protests in the aftermath of the green deal be added as the second item in the afternoon, after the topical debate. the sitting would be extended to 23.00. i give the floor to jean-paul garraud to move the request on behalf of the id group.
i have received three alternative proposals, which i will read out. first of all, from the greens group, to add council and commission statements on ‘improving the socio-economic situation of farmers and rural areas, ensuring fair incomes as well as a just transition’. the proposal from the epp group would be to add council and commission statements on ‘improving the socio-economic situation of farmers and rural areas, ensuring fair incomes’. the alternative proposal by the s&d group would be to add such statements on ‘improving the socio-economic situation of farmers and rural areas, ensuring fair incomes through a just transition and improving europe’s food security’. i give the floor first to any colleague who would like to speak against having such a debate. that does not seem to be the case, and therefore, mr garraud, do you agree with any of the alternative proposals – the greens’ proposal, the epp proposal or the s&d proposal?
(parliament rejected the id group’s proposal) president. – i understand there is a compromise title that would be supported by the epp, s&d, renew and the greens group, which i will read out: ‘council and commission statements on improving the socio-economic situation of farmers and rural areas, ensuring fair incomes, food security, as well as a just transition’. so i will put this compromise proposal to a vote by roll call. (parliament approved the compromise proposal)everybody wants that debate and agrees, except one person. for wednesday, the left and renew groups have requested that council and commission statements on ‘the rule of law and media freedom in greece’ be wound up with a resolution to be voted in the february part-session. i give the floor to ms in ‘t veld to move the request.
on behalf of the renew group. – madam president, we have indeed decided to have a debate this week, but given the seriousness of the rule of law concerns in greece, we feel that it would be proper to have a resolution. there are many different concerns, but i would like to highlight just one, because it compares to resolutions that we have adopted on other countries: the fact that almost three years ago, journalist giorgos karaivaz was killed and today still no justice has been done. i think his widow deserves the same support of this house that we have given to the relatives of other journalists that have been killed. therefore, it is proper to not just have a debate, but also a wind-up resolution that can be put on the agenda of the february i part-session.
i give the floor to any colleague who would like to speak against this proposal to have a resolution? i don’t see that to be the case, so i put the request of the renew group and the left group to the vote. yes, ms vozemberg.
mrs president, in every plenary session in recent months, this demand for the rule of law in greece and for matters before the greek judiciary has been repeated for many months. the greek judiciary is an independent authority, absolutely independent as it has been proven, and this obsession with repeating a subject is directed against the greek government, which was only elected as a one-party self-governing government by the greek people in recent national elections. i believe that this request should not be passed, because it has been tried repeatedly without evidence, without any substantive evidence against the rule of law in greece.
(parliament approved the request) president. – so we will have a resolution. for wednesday, the s&d, renew, greens and the left groups have requested that council and commission statements on ‘the situation in serbia following elections’ be added as the fifth item in the afternoon, after the debate on the rule of law and media freedom in greece. i give the floor to andreas schieder to move the request.
the greens group has requested that the debate be wound up with a resolution to be voted at the next part-session. so first i will ask whether any colleague wants to speak against having such a debate?
madam president, we support the debate, but we would be keen to have a resolution only once the final osce/odihr report is published on the elections. so if we can have an agreement to have a resolution pending the publication of the osce/odihr report, this would be an overall agreement. we don’t have a date for the publication of the report, but it is going to be in the coming weeks. it may not be in time for the next plenary session, however, and this is why i’m requesting to have this agreement.
so we will first vote on the request by the s&d, renew, greens and the left group to have a debate. (parliament approved the request)so the debate is in. but now we will check whether we will wind up the debate with a resolution at the next part-session. do you still have that request, to the greens group? ok, so we vote on whether to have a resolution on this next part-session. (parliament approved the request)colleagues, the agenda is adopted and the order of business is thus established. have a good week. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on: the report on ghg emissions by jessica polfjärd on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that damage the ozone layer and the repeal of regulation (ec) no 1005/2009 (com(2022) 0151 c9-0143/2022 - 2022/0100(cod)) the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 and in accordance with article 21 thereof, adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 21 of that regulation.
mr president, restricting the use of fluoridated hydrocarbons is a fine example of effective action to combat climate change. the impact assessment of this proposal and independent studies show that the cost of removing one tonne of co2 equivalent by such a restriction is even lower than the european union ets scheme. ets is one of the cheapest ways to reduce emissions into the atmosphere. but not all politicians think this way, and even less so do they, us, act on data. too often, they adapt to public opinion in order to gain popularity. in the climate area, this is seen, for example, in the former absurd wood-burning subsidies, called biomassers, or in the promotion of more expensive renewables instead of cheaper and safer but unpopular nuclear energy. more recently, parliament has even sought to promote the electrification of air transport, which is by far one of the most expensive and worst ways of fighting climate change. it is very difficult to fight popular reforms with unpopular ones, even if they bring us long-term benefits. but it is necessary. we need to be more data-driven, less emotion-driven. otherwise, it'll cost us a lot of money.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this very constructive debate. indeed, the compromises we discussed today together could bring about a total additional reduction in the eu's greenhouse gas emissions of roughly 500 million tonnes by 2050. this is a significant number, almost as high as the total annual greenhouse gas emissions of france and belgium together. it is fundamental that we remain united in the fight against climate change, and that we do not close our eyes to the realities we see every time all over the world, including also in europe – and also do not close our eyes to science. these rules will be the most ambitious in the world. this will allow others that start to reduce their consumption of f-gases to put in place ambitious policy. important is the signal we put in place aimed at phasing out the use of these gases. with such legislation in place, we will be in an excellent position to advocate more ambitious measures on f-gases, on ods under the montreal protocol. with your vote tomorrow, you can ensure that we can continue this success story of european environmental policy, a prime example of ambitious climate measures combined with the promotion of green technologies made in europe.
the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt delegated acts in accordance with the opinion of the committee on budgets. the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. first of all, on behalf of jessica polfjärd, i would like to thank you for your great support in your report on ozone depleting substances. thank god there was no controversy. we have been very busy with the f-gas issue and i think we have achieved a good result. it's less ambitious than the environment committee wanted it to be, but it's still a big step forward for the climate. there's still some criticism. i think that apart from the criticism which is purely populist, purely anti-european, we must look at one issue carefully, commissioner, and that is also a request to the member states: of course, at some point, no new f-gases will be coming to market, and there may be some kind of refrigerator still in a bakery, butchery, brewery, and still needing to be repaired. and as i see it, it is particularly important that we now massively promote the recycling of f-gases commission, member states training, programmes. because what happens to these f-gases if they're not recycled? what if you throw away old refrigerators and you can't get the gas out? then it goes into the atmosphere. so it's very, very important for both the economy and the climate that we push recycling on a large scale. then we have the review clauses. i hope we don't have to use them. if we can't do it any other way, we'll have to use them. but it would be best if we found out at the beginning of the review that we have so much recycled f-gas that it's running now. the commission and the member states have done a good job, so we really do not have to put new gases on the market.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank everyone for contributing to the debate. it seems we have a solid majority for the vote tomorrow, and i'm really very thankful to the shadows and all the colleagues who contributed. so thanks very much for that. i just have to say that some colleagues expressed some criticism, but i had the feeling that this was more for their own youtube channel than it was based on the facts of the legislation. maybe i just want to explain that, and maybe they can add this element then to their youtube channel – which they probably will not do, but nevertheless you always have to try. first of all, to mr nissinen from the ecr and sweden. he was very much concerned about what is going to happen with all the people that have already bought heat pumps – uh, nothing, because this is about new equipment. so later on when you buy a heat pump, it will not contain those damaging gases. the ones you bought, you can use and you will use – you know that very well, but of course it didn't fit your story. some of the id colleagues were very much concerned that we are not looking at the market. well i would say, mr lancini, that it is you who are not looking at the market. first of all, at this moment, the new monoblocs of heat pumps coming on the market already are without f-gases. so the market is already there. the deadline we have is 2032, although they can deliver already now. so if we add them eight more years and they can deliver already and you are concerned they count, maybe you should catch up with the developments in the market. the same goes for split systems. the innovation is ongoing. they are delivering already now, they are available not so much yet, and that's why therefore the date is 2035. we even give them ten years. i think that is looking at the market. it is also looking at where the innovation is happening and that is european industry. so from an id group i would expect support for the european industry, but apparently they prefer to support the american and japanese industry. we take note.
the joint debate is over and the vote on this point will take place tomorrow.
the commission will also be consulted on the following issues: report by danuta maria hübner on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the financial instrument markets regulations: amendments to the financial instrument markets directive (mifid ii) (com(2021) 0726 c9-0438/2021 2021/0384(cod)) the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 laying down the rules for the application of this regulation and implementing acts in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 and in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 laying down the rules for the application of this regulation and in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 and with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 and with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 and with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 and with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 and with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 and with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 and with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 and with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 575/2013 and with article 21 of regulation (
for the ecr group. the commission has also taken the view that the commission should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a transparent manner. increased transparency is important to increase the credibility of trading on capital markets for all categories of investors. this will lead to more intense competition and thus to easier capital markets funding. a major problem which still persists on capital markets in the european union is also the higher investment costs for retail investors compared to other countries. one of the reasons for these differences is the regulatory costs themselves. according to several studies, mifid ii legislation has led to a narrowing of the supply of investment products and services, a decrease in the profitability of investment firms due to high regulatory costs and ultimately to more barriers to entry, as well as mergers and acquisitions for small investment firms in the region. too many obligations and bureaucratic procedures can be an obstacle for both consumers and businesses. our goal should be to increase overall well-being, not to increase the number of consumer rights at any cost, regardless of whether they ultimately prove useful. it is therefore appropriate for the commission to analyse the regulatory costs of the regulation and its impact on prices as well.
mr president, mr. european commissioner shefcovich is talking about the need to increase military support for ukraine. the progressive platforms and their fellow meps say that ukraine needs even more and even more powerful weapons. you know, i get the feeling sometimes that you're talking about it like some kind of computer game. you press a button, you vote more weapons for ukraine, and then you sit next to the parliamentary bar and you read on your cell phones how many people died and how some front line moved. i understand that for some of you in the west, this war is easy to talk about because it's ukrainians, it's the slavs fighting against the hated russia. but you must understand that this war is destroying europe. and after two years, every normal person can see that the war is not just a military solution. it doesn't have a military solution, because the ukrainian counter-offensive has failed, there won't be another. a colleague here was telling me that the ukrainians don't have enough troops anymore, and they're just going to have to come to these peace talks sooner or later. and i'm calling for us to stop being afraid to talk about peace and finally call for peace, not just more and more guns.
mr. president, on february 22nd last year at 9.30 am i said this from this place, i read: "we are all convinced that together with the americans we will defeat russia". and i said, "what if we don't beat russia?" do we have an alternative b? and alternative b is already here. today we all know we can't beat russia. so let's stop sending weapons to ukraine, let's stop sending and supporting the slaughter of the slavs. because if you don't stop, it could happen that we slavs are going to be united, brother to brother. and i believe that one day we will unite and make western europe a lawn. from the tats, the woods to la manche. the lawn. and i believe none of us want that. the war in ukraine is a problem of the united states of america and its global interests. the european union is just the vassal of the united states of america. let's start negotiating peace, but without the americans. let's stop killing people. shut up! shut up!
that concludes the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 12.19)
the commission will also consider the possibility of a new eu-wide programme of action to be launched to address the issue of the protection of consumers' rights and the protection of the environment.
member of the commission. i would like to thank you again for this debate and for your support for this proposal for a directive, but above all for all the work that parliament has done and in particular the rapporteur in its work. this will give consumers more power to act in favour of the ecological transition. in fact, we are at a key stage in enabling european consumers to make more sustainable consumer choices. this is an essential piece of legislation to ensure that companies are subject to more harmonised rules within the member states, and in particular, in particular with regard to green claims, many have recalled this during the debate. the commission is obviously ready to make every effort to facilitate the transposition of this new legislation so that it can be implemented quickly and properly. i thank you for your attention and again for your support of this important text.
the reporter. mr. speaker, thank you to everyone who took part in today's debate. thank you for your support, this process was not easy or simple, but as the commissioner said, we had an ambitious approach and ultimately enabled our citizens to live better. the responsibility for a fair market must not lie on the backs of citizens, on the backs of individual consumers, but the responsibility must lie on the backs of the big players in the market, and the goal and interest of all of us here should be a better life for citizens and in that sense these new rules are what they are.
the discussion is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 january 2024. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation.
in writing. i strongly support the limitation of so-called greenwashing and the fraudulent use of environmental or natural additives. we must provide citizens with true and verifiable information about the products they buy on the european market. paying for greener energy, which may not be greener in the end, or a few euros more to the bus or airline ticket to offset the carbon footprint we create, is no longer possible.
in writing. this proposal seeks to address the greenwashing fraud without defining exactly what greenwashing is. a few years ago, greenwashing could be considered, for example, nuclear. today, it is clear that climate problems cannot be solved without it. and then, to fight fraud, we have to define what fraud is. i am afraid that this proposal will therefore not benefit the consumer or nature much.
the commission will also be consulted on the implementation of the programme, including the implementation of the programme, and the implementation of the programme.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, we are in fact balancing two vital objectives of our democratic society, supporting the work of ngos and the protection of all financial interests. that is why i highlighted the vigorous and evolving legal framework in place showing the protection of eu financial interests, including as regards ngos. concerning the question from ms hohlmeier, may i repeat the answer given by my colleague johannes in may last year, to a parliamentary question – ms hohlmeier will maybe read the answer. i quote: ‘the commission has awarded grants to a total of nine projects involving the ngo ‘no peace without justice’ under funds directly managed by the commission. these projects have spread over a period of over 15 years, starting from 2006. eu funding for the seven projects that were completed amounted to eur 5 million. out of these seven projects, three of them had multiple beneficiaries. the amount received by the ngo from the seven projects is no more than eur 4.62 million. eu funding for the two ongoing projects amounts to approximately eur 2.7 million. of this, eur 1.37 million has not yet been paid by the commission and is now suspended as a precautionary measure, pending an internal evaluation’. of course, mindful of limiting the administrative burden for all beneficiaries, i would like to close by emphasising the commission’s continued work with parliament to ensure adequate protection of eu financial interests and eu values. so we need to continue to work for the protection of our financial interests and to promote a specific role for the ngos in many different actions that we are organising, and certainly also in the fight against corruption.
the report is not yet available. the commission has already taken a number of steps. i believe the commissioner can do magic. so, we have not received these figures despite the commission's request, but we will of course check. i would like to thank the commission for its willingness to take the procedures of standardization seriously. thank you for your willingness to create a so-called blacklist. thank you for your willingness to help define ngos. and thank you also for creating a central platform for cross-border activities, that is, cooperation with third countries. all of this is good news that we like to hear. to those who have criticized my report today, i would like to say one thing: it is precisely about all of us being treated equally, about treating life programme recipients and research grants the way we treat structural funds. and if we had the ultimate transparency and the names were published, then all the problems would be gone. the vast majority of ngos are absolutely important to civil society that we have discussed a hundred times today. but, mr colleague friend, what you are saying is always so predictable, accusing me of not having spoken to ngos before. the green group also agreed to this report. it is obvious that i am not talking to the economic side or the ngo side when it comes to ngos. i have to stay neutral. that's why we hired scientists. we've hired scientists, you too. they have studied a whole series of cases, and that is basically what we're filtering out today. that's why, it's so predictable what you're saying is coming even now with the chambers of industry and commerce and the volunteer fire department. so, folks, public law bodies, volunteer firefighters, where do they get the european money? they deliberately throw mist candles to put us in a bad light. i think what you're doing here is irresponsible. this is certainly not helping the policies of ngos at all. that's why let's get to the point. let's really work right where the few black sheep are, and let's really ensure that there is a balance of arms here, that the recipients of structural funds are treated the same way as the recipients of ngos and the corresponding research funds. i want to continue to work on this and i am really very pleased with the response so far, with the progress we have made, and i hope that this will at least hold up in the european parliament.
the discussion is over. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 january 2024. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation.
mr president, extremism and neo-fascism have been gaining momentum in europe for a long time. today, fascists are even part of many parliaments and governments. they deny the holocaust or glorify the fascist regime. we must stop confusing freedom of speech with the spread of neo-fascist ideology. ladies and gentlemen, let's finally start treating fascists and extremists like criminals. we see the rise of fascism in many countries. the healing fifty-six fascists in italy cannot be ignored by either the italian government or brussels. we find the same fascists all over europe and even in our own country, my country, slovakia. neofascists even run for top office, including presidential candidacy, as is the case in my country. if the fascists had glorified al-qaeda terrorists, they'd be in jail today. since their idols are hitler, mussolini, tiso and breivik, we're ignoring that. we need to set the neofascists up and tell them the holocaust happened. nazism is evil. fascism is terrorism. i'll tell you my own experience with the fascists, when they threatened to rape my gypsy wife, kill my nigger children one by one, and someone was following us under our windows. the police didn't pay enough attention to this. and as is customary, the perpetrator was never located. ladies and gentlemen, how is it that terrorism is a red line for us, but fascism is tolerated by society? neofascism is the same evil as terrorism. and we must stand as firmly against those who spread fascism as we stand against those who spread terrorism.
mr president, today is a really crazy day in the european parliament. you want hungary to withdraw its euro funds and you want slovakia to be disgraced by a vote as a country with a history of hate crimes and the murder of journalists. and that's just because you don't like democratically elected governments in our states. you simply approach us in slovakia, hungary, poland as second-class citizens. you're still trying to teach us something, to impose something on us. and when citizens start to get their teeth full, you start to threaten withdrawing the euro funds or withdrawing voting rights in the european union. but our citizens also pay taxes, which are also financed by the european union. and, sorry, your asses. our citizens too have a right to their own opinion and to their own life. that's why i warn you, stop constantly threatening central europe. we will not be afraid of your threats. and if you want to investigate transparency and corruption, start here at the european commission with president leyen and her billion-dollar dealings with pfizer.
mr president, i shall be attending hungary in the afternoon, and slovakia in the afternoon. you're here to tear us to pieces. but good. the highest bearers of democracy and power in the european union are the citizens of the european union. without the citizens of the european union, we would not be us, there would be no institutions, there would be none of us here. hungarian citizens are also citizens of the european union and are, according to the hungarian constitution, the holders of power in their own country. and no one can take away their right. they have elected their government, their president, they want to be respected in europe, to be respected, to be respected for their view of migration, to be respected for their view of gender equality, to be respected for their view of ukraine. the hungarians do not want to leave the eu. they don't even want to leave nato. but they want hungary to be respected as a proud, sovereign, national state in the european union. let's not take away their right. the hungarians are a proud nation historically and never kneel before any power. bye, hungary!
madam president, as a roma i have been the target of hate attacks for a long time, so i know what i'm talking about. as the number of hate speech and hate crimes has increased in recent years, the fight against these crimes has stalled. today we are at a historic intersection. the spread of hatred has even been embraced by a large part of society. today, fascists, extremists who spread hatred are part of various democratic parliaments, or even governments of several european member states, even in my own country. ladies and gentlemen, we have long ignored that they abuse democracy and freedom of speech. we don't start dealing with hate crimes until something bad happens. when you don't care, someone will lose their life because of their difference. colleagues, colleagues, how many people still have to die before we start a real fight against hate? those who spread hate are the same criminals as those who spread terrorism. i beg all competent people, finally start punishing those who behave like superhumans. protect those who are victims of hate crimes.
madam president, i am speaking here because i do not care how the european parliament talks about greece, a country that has had to deal with a major economic and migration crisis. i have great respect for greek citizens, the non-profit sector and i also have great respect for the greek government, its prime minister, for the work they have done, not only to protect against illegal migration, but also to protect those who have had to flee, to take care of refugees in greek registration centres and to ensure their integration. the greek government must be aware that there are serious shortcomings in media freedom. the commission has also stated this and we are witnessing that the greek government has made some changes. moreover, they were also published in the commission's latest report on the rule of law. and so today's debate should not only be a criticism of greece, but it should also point out that the greek government has made changes that have even been labelled as examples of good practice. i think the greek government needs to make changes, but i still value her work very much. (the applicant agreed to answer the question raised by raising the blue card.)
blue-card question. – well, you are a member of the epp, and i guess you know mr kyrtsos, who was a member of the epp while he was being spied on by the greek secret service. so every member of your group who was talking with mr kyrtsos was also spied on – probably you or somebody else. so is this a problem, a moral and political problem for you, or just ‘stuff happens’ – something normal, you know?
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card. i believe it is the right of the colleague to have his case investigated. he was talking about it here, and of course it is unacceptable to me that even if it is the government that is a member of the ppe, it would take steps that are against greek law. mr. colleague has the right to defend himself, and i respect his right, and i believe that in the rule of law his right will be upheld. that's all i can tell you about that.
mrs president, commissioner reynders, we discussed the situation of fundamental rights in the european union a while ago in this house and we noted the concern expressed by the member states about the safety of journalists, the independence of the media and, above all, information pluralism. and now we have exactly one point which concerns a member state of the european union, greece, where nothing less than the murder of an investigative journalist, giorgos karaivaz, has taken place, which has yet to be clarified by the courts. but there are also reports accumulated in the commission's country-by-country reports on the rule of law in greece about abusive prosecutions, insults, verbal aggressions, arbitrary detentions and, above all, the use of the intrusive predator spy programme, ordered from offices linked to the greek government, against information professionals and political opponents. how can we not express concern... the battle for fundamental rights is being fought everywhere, without any shadow of political bias. there is no scapegoat or conspiracy. we simply give a signal of commitment to the state of fundamental rights, which begins precisely with freedom of expression, freedom of expression, information pluralism and media independence.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, mr president, and i would like to thank him for his support. we observed this phenomenon when we discussed claims from journalistic investigations concerning cyprus. claims which have not been verified by official competent authorities. today we are experiencing it again with greece, discussing the situation of the rule of law in the country many times over. the hellenic government has presented its action plan in areas such as the rule of law, the fight against corruption, freedom of the press and the control and balance framework. however, we are once again observing a debate whose sole purpose is to wage a war of impressions against a government belonging to the european people's party. let us promote a debate based on objectivity, while preserving the unity and integrity of the european parliament as the guardian of the european republic.
madam president, since the 1974 migration, 50 years ago, greece has experienced the best democracy since the establishment of a greek state, the third greek republic. the current government is building strong institutional backgrounds, upholding the rule of law and press freedom in greece, by strengthening transparency on media ownership that was implemented in 2021. with the signing of a memorandum in 2022 between six ministries and government bodies aimed at the safety and protection of journalists, an initiative commended by the council of europe in july 2023, with the establishment of the national transparency authority as an independent authority in 2019. under law 5002 of 2022, which establishes a two-tier prosecution process, breaking the connections act is now considered a felony punishable by up to 10 years in prison. ladies and gentlemen, in 2022, according to international transparency, greece has improved its position in the world ranking by 43 places since 2012. this is greece of the republic.
madam president, those who have spoken of hatred of greece or of expediency must answer a question. the liberals of renew europe, the party of emmanuel macron, hate mitsotakis, undermine greece? i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and for his report. and secondly, we love greece and the republic, and we, greeks and women, condemn the rapid decline in press freedom and the rule of law in recent years, which is the responsibility of the mitsotaki government. and the biggest proof that things have gotten worse is that this debate on press freedom is being silenced, madam president, by the vast majority of the media in greece, which are highly pro-government. a news that is of particular interest to greece does not exist for millions of greeks and greeks, because it is simply not in the interest of the mitsotaki government. and that's wrong and it needs to be corrected.
madam president, the responsibility of the new republic government and the prime minister is enormous for monitoring parties like the kke, politicians, journalists, everyone, through the systematic use of spyware. but all this is the summit of the eu iceberg, which is the dark legislative framework that all governments have shaped over time. in the media, the fact that in greece and everywhere they are owned by business groups has led to preventive censorship, such as the silence of the israeli genocide of palestinians and the delivery of israeli fake news. it also leads to an unequal exposure of the kke, with the crushing of labour rights and journalists targeting pressures, business interests and blackmail, which as life has shown, some of them pay with their lives, like karaivas. we're gonna have to investigate all the political and criminal cases. we defend workers' rights and the information of the people as a social good and not as a commodity incompatible with capitalist ownership of the media.
madam president, i followed this debate very, very carefully and i would like to table two questions to colleague in ‘t veld. the very first one is: do you really believe that we have to start cutting funding to greece, like we did in hungary? do you believe that the mitsotakis administration is behaving in the same manner like the orbán administration? and please tell me yes or no, because it is important in this very moment, when mitsotakis is initiating the same-sex marriage, despite the reaction in his own party, and all media are covering this situation. second, do you believe that the situation in greece is the same, like the situation in slovakia? is mitsotakis fico, who has already shut down the special prosecutor’s office? a lot of mistakes have been made and a lot of steps must be done, but the case in this place is that, in this very moment, this discussion, this debate is irrelevant. this discussion, this debate is misleading, and also the motion for resolution that we will discuss in february. this is because not only it is defaming my home country, it is undermining the credibility of this house, of this institution and it is being instrumentalised ahead of the election. this is the case and you have to say sorry to greece for this.
member of the commission. i would like to thank you for your comments and the sometimes very different messages we have heard. i am glad, first of all, that we can continue our dialogue on the rule of law situation in all member states. as you know, i am fully aware of your parliament's position in this regard, whether in plenary or in committee or in any other format. the rule of law is of fundamental importance because it guarantees the protection of all other values, including respect for fundamental rights and democracy. a free and pluralistic media environment is essential to upholding the rule of law, as independent and free media holds authorities and institutions accountable. the situation in greece is particularly important. i would like to reiterate that we appreciate the willingness of the greek authorities to have a dialogue with the commission on the reforms to be carried out. i would however like to stress the importance of implementing and implementing all the necessary reforms in terms of the independence and efficiency of the judiciary, the fight against corruption and ensuring media freedom and the safety of journalists.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of the european parliament, on sunday 17 december, serbia held parliamentary and local elections in 65 municipalities, including belgrade. those elections were observed by a very substantial international mission from the osce/odihr, as well as members of the european parliament. let me thank them for this important engagement. according to the statement of the osce/odihr, the elections, though technically well-administrated and offering voters a choice of political alternatives, were dominated by the decisive involvement of the president, which, together with the ruling party’s systemic advantages, created unjust conditions. in their statement of 19 december, high representative/vice-president josep borrell and commissioner for neighbourhood and enlargement várhelyi took note of the report and concluded with concern that the electoral process requires tangible improvement and further reform. let me underline that the rule of law and the proper functioning of serbia’s democratic institutions remain at the core of serbia’s eu accession process, as they are enshrined in our treaties, which list copenhagen criteria. the revised enlargement methodology clearly sets out that progress on the fundamentals determines the overall pace of negotiations. we expect that all credible reports of irregularities are followed up in a transparent manner by the competent national authorities. this also includes allegations related to the local elections in belgrade and other municipalities. following the adoption of the final osce/odihr report and recommendations for future elections, we expect serbia to implement them quickly, ahead of future elections. we stand ready to support serbia in implementing those recommendations. we have followed closely the protests in serbia after the elections. let me underline the importance of upholding the right of peaceful demonstration. at the same time, violence is not the solution and is unacceptable. police action must be proportionate and respect fundamental rights regarding the rule of law. we call on the serbian political leadership to ensure now a constructive, inclusive dialogue across the political spectrum. there is no space for disinformation narratives in a healthy democracy. serbia remains a candidate country negotiating its accession to the european union. we expect serbia to demonstrate unequivocally its determination to advance the accession process by accelerating its work on the implementation of eu accession-related reforms across the board and to deliver real and tangible results. this includes, in particular, the area of rule of law and the normalisation of relations with kosovo through the swift implementation of all eu-facilitated dialogue commitments, including the agreement on the path to normalisation and its implementation annex. let me also reiterate our strong expectation that serbia will step up its efforts towards full alignment with eu common foreign and security policy positions and restrictive measures as a matter of utmost priority. we will be closely following how serbia is delivering on these points and are ready to support serbia in this endeavour.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, commissioner, dear colleagues. serbia’s public space has been captured by tensions and personal accusations. let me therefore recap some facts from drawn conclusions of the european parliament’s observers from 18 december, which i also signed and fully supported. i quote ‘frequent snap elections cause people’s distrust of the state governance and are hindering the implementation of needed eu accession related reforms. the low level of political debate, the pressure on the voters, the emphasis on personal discreditation of opponents, the harsh rhetoric in political life in serbia remain all very worrying. as observers, we also said on the day of the elections, key procedures for voting and counting for mostly followed. however, we have reported cases of lack of secrecy. we received several reports of mass registration in belgrade, of voters from abroad and from other municipalities inside serbia, specifically to enlarge the electorate. we call on the competent authorities to investigate properly and give follow up on all the problematic issues we have referred to’. end of quote. this was set jointly by all the ep observers on 18 december after the elections. dear colleagues, i stood by these words in december, and i stand by them now. and i do so because i believe that serbia deserves better. serbia deserves a european future. people in serbia deserve a political climate without constant political campaign. people in serbia deserve true european reforms. people in serbia deserve a clear choice between russia and europe, and a clear choice between confrontation and cooperation. people in serbia deserve that politicians at last begin to deliver on these choices. i wish serbia less focus on the tragic past and more energy towards a better future. i wish serbia all the best in making brave and bright choices for the sake of people in serbia, and for the sake of europe.
i am very pleased that we are finally talking seriously about geothermal energy. it's really high time. this energy has enormous potential for europe. and we also have huge reserves in using it. slovakia, despite having large reserves of geothermal water, uses this potential at 2 to 3%. it's local, clean, carbon-free, really sustainable and reliable source of heat and electricity. but the biggest advantage is that this energy source is really resilient to the future. no dictator from abroad will restrict it to us. using this energy won't really swallow us up with radioactive waste, nor will we have to reassess it in 2030 2040, because it would destroy our forests, as it does with cheap energy biomass. if there are obstacles to using it, we will offer solutions and finally start to make the most of this resource. the sooner we start, the more we get.
on the one hand, the young people's interest in practical skills is losing out, which in practice leads to a lack of employers in the european labour market. on the other hand, let us acknowledge that education systems in vocational education in europe have been failing for a long time. in the context of new technologies, digitalisation and green transformation, this gap is deepening. worse still, in some member states, talent and potential are being deliberately wasted. by excluding or disadvantaging children from poor families from the time they enter the school environment. they risk their future and waste their potential. some member states literally make poor, talented children unusable citizens on the labour market, dependent on the social system for the rest of their lives. the most important investment is in the future of european citizens, in our children. every effort must be made to give each child the opportunity to develop his or her talent or skills so that he or she can be successful, or to enable each child to fulfill his or her own dreams as an adult.
i shall go straight to the point. the prestigious new york times has released a classified document that says the european council's offices are preparing an attack on hungary in case viktor orbán does not vote for $50 billion in aid to ukraine. in particular, the european council offices were to prepare an attack on the hungarian forint, to intimidate investors, to raise interest rates on loans to hungary and to increase unemployment, that is, to prepare people for work. and i want to ask you, mr president, on this level, whether these are the new working instruments of the european union? blackmail, threats, and then attacks. i am increasingly reminded of the european union, a soviet political office, which attacks anyone who expresses a slightly disagreeable opinion. and i want to ask you to stop it. stop it, because eventually, the whole of europe will rise up against you, just like the farmers did last week.
in writing. the very sad anniversary of russia's illegal invasion of sovereign and independent ukraine is approaching. the anniversary of the russian aggression, which is a clear violation of the fundamental principles of international law. in the european parliament, we have been strong supporters of ukraine gaining eu candidate status and of opening accession negotiations last year. we are entering the third year of the russian invasion war and we must continue to stand firmly with ukraine and its people, who are fighting not only for their freedom but also for our collective security and for our common european values, freedom and democracy. the place of ukraine is in our union, and therefore it is time for real action. we must keep our promises to ukraine and support her in a victory that is essential for all of europe.
the next item on the agenda is voting. (results of the vote and other related details: see the minutes. )
the rapporteur. mr president, with this report we are transposing the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, known as iccat, into european legislation, thanks to a broad consensus with the council and all the groups in this parliament. we have updated the rules as much as possible so that the union fishing fleet will have the same conditions and measures as the fleet of third countries operating in this area. we have included, inter alia, new rules for improving data collection and restrictions and prohibitions on recreational fishing, together with rules for the transfer of quotas for redfin tuna. mr president, the fisheries sector has been in a difficult situation since the pandemic, after the russian invasion of ukraine and now with the widespread rise in food prices in europe. i would like to call for a clear support for this sector, which is facing harsh conditions, just like farmers, so that we can have the highest quality food available. fish is also the animal protein with the lowest carbon footprint, which meets the most stringent health and environmental standards. i want to acknowledge from here this hard work, which brings so much to all of us and which very rarely gets visibility. i would like to thank all the european fishermen for all their efforts on behalf of this parliament.
that's the end of the vote. (the conversation was interrupted for a while. )
the commission will also consider the possibility of a new proposal for a regulation on the use of genetically modified organisms in the production of genetically modified organisms (gmo) and the use of genetically modified organisms (gmo) in the production of genetically modified organisms (gmo) (com (2023) 0441 final - c9-0238/2023 - 2023/0226 (cod)) the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.';
the commission has also proposed that the commission should adopt a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment. if such an experiment were performed on humans, it would be a serious crime. the scientific community is divided into two parts in the direction of gmos. one is for, the other is against. it's hard for a non-expert like me to decide how to vote on this case. to vote for, to vote against, to abstain from voting? i do, however, trust the slovak farmers, the slovak experts, the slovak association of beekeepers, the food producers, the slovak agricultural food chamber, the village platform, the gazprom association, the slovak farmers' association and other slovak experts, and therefore i will vote against such a regulation. i would also like to point out that the slovak republic has always had and has had, before, experts in agriculture, in food security at a high level, and i trust them.
i understand that new genomic techniques have their indisputable advantages, accelerate the breeding process and are linked to specific modifications to the genome of organisms. but one thing i don't understand is that when we put these new organisms into practice, we can completely give up risk assessment. we say they're so safe that we don't need to label and differentiate them from conventional products. we even give up the ability to track them, or even to pull them out if they prove harmful. i don't understand how farmers can accept a framework that leads to further higher production, and then lower prices, that pushes them into intensive monocultures and ultimately traps them into patented seeds that they won't be able to tell from the conventional. by saying we don't want to label these products and mix them with conventional ones, we're taking away the consumer's choice. and those who disagree with this approach are pointing to a more expensive alternative to organic farming. quality, safe and affordable food, that was so far outside of european agriculture, and i really don't understand why we're giving up on it. this proposal, as it stands, is poorly prepared, potentially dangerous, and i will vote against it.
in writing. gmo foods may be sold in the eu but cannot be grown in principle. the proposed techniques for the modification of genes within the same species (ngt) should be allowed, as plants developed in this way are equivalent to conventional plants. i agree with that. by the way, plants grown and cultivated in a conventional way are also genetically very different from the native species. the commission should review whether such strict regulation of gmo foods as is currently being applied by the eu is necessary.
in writing. setting medium-term targets such as the one for 2040 is certainly good for us to be able to evaluate and adapt measures to meet our long-term targets. the energy transformation we want to strengthen, not weaken the strategic autonomy of european industry, must be gradual, supported by massive measures and must not harm producers or consumers. member states must have some autonomy in decarbonising by means which, for countries such as slovakia, also means recognising the transitional role of nuclear and gas.
i would kindly ask everyone to stick to the topic that is on the agenda.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as we speak in this chamber, a specter is creeping through our cities: the russian misinformation. a threat that grows every day, more stifling, subtle and dangerous. putin's goal is to disintegrate from within, undermine our democratic institutions, erode our rule of law and, again, even manipulate the minds of future generations of european citizens. not more than three months ago an italian association, vento del est, chaired by a former activist of the neo-fascist casa pound party, as well as a fervent admirer of putin, organized an event impregnated with russian propaganda in a high school in aprilia, a city in my region, lazio, a few steps from my home. the most striking paradox is that this disinformation event was financed by the european social fund, with our european taxpayer money. i have put a question to the european commission to ensure that such nonsense must never be repeated. the criminal invasion of ukraine should have made us realize that there is no room for ambiguity and naivety, that there is not only an external front but also an internal front within our europe. it is time to launch a european action plan in every single member state, especially in italy, the soft womb of our continent, to protect our democracy from the next european elections, if we do not want putin to come out victorious. the waiting era is over, today is the time for action.
madam president, it is no coincidence that we are meeting here again today because of russia's punitive actions. if we wanted to, we could dedicate every meeting to the damage the kremlin is planning to do. we all know that our brave friends in ukraine would be the most capable to talk about this today. russia is breaking our unity and our values programmatically and in the long run. members like mrs. zdanoka are just pedestrians who benefit from living in a free and secure europe. they're useful pedestrians who would want their beloved russia for everyone else, but they don't want to live there alone. we can only guess why. russia is no partner in the debate, ladies and gentlemen. what russia is doing in ukraine today can very easily be done elsewhere in a few years. for example, at other places on our external borders, if we allow him to. fortunately, most of europe understands this well and acts accordingly. i therefore consider it particularly dangerous if someone works against our common european interests and the interests of our citizens. those who annoy public opinion with the prospect of short-term wealth. i trust we will not ignore them as we have done before. i think it is particularly important that someone undermines european unity on this issue from the highest levels of power. i regret that the slovak government has recently joined them. it's a shame to accept the messengers of the aggressor at the highest levels. it is shameful to question the legitimate interests and positions of ukraine. it's a shame that some people do this for the sake of a country whose goal is to destroy us, our prosperity and our free future. our only answer, ladies and gentlemen, must therefore be to strengthen resilience, and resilience is in our unity, in our common european unity.
mr. president, there is no doubt that the teaching profession is one of the most noble professions that can be. the achievement of a teacher's dignity, social status, social status and respect can also be achieved by a good salary assessment. in the colonial era... sorry. at the time of the accession negotiations on slovakia's accession to the eu, our citizens and teachers believed that within a few years they would achieve a salary assessment equivalent to that of western european countries. what's the reality? after 20 years, the starting salary of a teacher in slovakia is around eur 800, in western countries around eur 3 000. the average annual salary of a teacher in slovakia is eur 18 300 per year, in germany eur 71 000, in the netherlands eur 60 000 etc. according to the assessment table, the countries of eastern europe are among the most recent in the last 20 years of the european union. i personally do not like the european commission's assessment of the rule of law in slovakia, the european commission's assessment of the level of democracy, because it is an internal matter of the state, but i would very much like and would like the european commission to give some such proper recommendation for this... (the speaker interrupted)... to give a proper recommendation for how to increase teachers' salaries.
mr president, i myself have acted as a teacher and i know that the profession of teacher is not only a profession but also a service to society. after all, he is the teacher who fundamentally educates and shapes children. on the one hand, the company has high expectations of teachers, but on the other, it does not create adequate conditions for teachers to work. they have to have excellent teaching skills, knowledge, practice, be role models, be bearers of excellent human qualities, be perceptive, understanding, tolerant, helpful, but we don't appreciate them. the profession of teacher is simply unattractive in many countries today. for example, in my country, slovakia, it is difficult to attract young people to the teaching profession. the main reason is the low wages in the long run, which are not competitive with the wages of other occupations, but also the lack of technical and working conditions. they're just teaching in schools that don't fit into the 21st century. children, but parents, lack respect for the teacher. teachers are often the target of insults or even attacks. we all expect a teacher to adapt to current technological advances, but the environment in which he works, or his salary assessment in many european countries or in my country, does not advance. teachers have immense responsibilities for their students, but neither the students nor their parents have any respect for them. education must be a priority. young people must be given the opportunity to develop their potential. but without a change in schools and a hand in hand with a change in perception or appreciation of the teaching profession, this cannot happen.
- your honor, the president. and thank you very much to commissioner lady for the opportunity to discuss this subject now. indeed, this petition made clear that there are many general problems in the member states, including overloading teachers, lack of further training, inadequate remuneration, lack of teachers, the ageing of the teaching community and the unpopularity of the profession among young people. these are all general challenges that could be addressed through complex strategic measures. since education is the exclusive responsibility of the member states, the european union has a supporting and advisory role to play in this, to help, for example through cohesion funds, to help, to help develop the area. teachers are indeed key to education, and they need moral and material respect. the hungarian government has taken a number of measures to attract the career of the teacher. for example, as of 1 january 2024, they have achieved a 32.2% increase in fees, which is a significant increase and significant reduction in administrative burden, and they are doing everything they can to make teachers' work easier.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, dear teachers in the gallery, i thank you very much for your very valuable comments and remarks. dear colleagues, i thank you for the importance and respect you attach to the crucial role of the teaching profession. i reiterate that within the limits of its remit, the commission is committed to deploying a number of funding instruments to support the member states’ efforts in addressing this multifaceted challenge. there were a number of questions about what more the eu can do to help, besides what i mentioned in the beginning. let me just recall the key role of the eu funding invested in education. around eur 73 billion have been programmed for education under the recovery and resilience facility, supporting education and skills development, with a strong focus on digital education. the national rrf plans include several investments and reforms linked to the teaching profession, to name a few. teachers can receive training in digital skills, or in how to work with disadvantaged pupils; they can participate in e-learning courses, or they can receive financial support to purchase electronic equipment, for instance, for teaching purposes. under the european social fund plus, more than eur 43 billion have been programmed to support measures targeting education, training and skills. among these investments are, again, multiple measures supporting teachers in the development of their competence frameworks, their upskilling, their career paths and in working in rural and multicultural environments. i want to reassure you that i am fully committed to doing the utmost for us to help, together, to restore the attractiveness of one of the noblest professions.
the discussion is over. the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 21 of this regulation.
written. to improve working conditions for teachers, it is important to listen to the voices of teachers working in schools in order to truly improve working conditions. teachers know best what buildings, workplaces, and classrooms are the best places for students to learn and thrive. inclusion in schools must be reviewed from the perspective of the average classroom teacher. what resources do classroom teachers have, especially for enhanced support or special support for students and for various other considerations (e.g. multilingualism, different cultures). it is also important to consider what can be expected of a classroom teacher in normal working hours. is it possible to require that non-native languages be used or is there too much administrative and other work to be done and, if so, should be reduced? the causes of the increase in violence and disturbance in schools must be investigated and addressed. the support for students in the classroom must be proportionate to the class as a whole. where necessary, group sizes should be reduced, additional specialised groups/subgroups should be established and additional specialised teachers and other support staff should be employed in schools. the appropriations for basic and special education should be sufficient and should not be used for ideological or short-term projects. the support must be determined and long-term in order to create a coherent basis which guarantees that every student has the opportunity to acquire certain basic skills (reading, writing, mathematics, social skills) in order to survive in society.
the next item on the agenda is the discussion of the question on the oral answer to the commission on association agreements concerning the participation of third countries in union programmes, submitted by christian ehler on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy and jean-lin lacapelle on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (o-000004/2024 - b9-0009/24) (2024/2554(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this honest and important debate. as i already said, ensuring the utmost transparency vis-a-vis both co-legislators in the process of negotiating and concluding association agreements is an important priority for the commission. as regards association to horizon europe, my services have already been regularly updating the itre and afet committees on the state of play in the negotiations, including by explaining any open issues, and we shall continue this engagement. i will also continue to ensure that we share with you the commission’s recommendations to launch negotiations, the eu proposals for draft horizon europe association agreement texts before tabling them in negotiations, and also the consolidated texts before they are initiated by the union negotiator. as regards the association of third countries to other eu programmes, the commission will, of course, act with the same diligence towards the relevant committees. we have had more than 50 interactions with parliament on associations since the entry of horizon europe into force until now. let me assure you again, i am very willing and open to work together with you at all levels, and i strongly hope that we will find a way forward within the existing treaties and the interinstitutional legal framework to deal with that matter.
in accordance with article 136 (5) of the rules of procedure, i was served with a motion for a resolution*. the discussion is over. the vote will take place on thursday 8 february 2024. the following information shall be provided: (the hearing was interrupted at 11:31 a.m.)
