for the verts/ale group. mr speaker, i want to speak to you. when we look back at the late 1980s, when we started to understand the problem of an ever thinner ozone layer, what we often at the poles at least describe as an ozone hole. what we did then is often highlighted as a good example of how politicians can really listen to science and take in the alarms that were there at the time. what happened was that the countries of the world agreed that we needed to phase out these dangerous substances that break down the ozone layer high up in the stratosphere many miles up in the atmosphere. this time, we really listened to the research and took these alarm reports seriously. but we have a lot to learn from that work, what happened then. this is exactly the kind of process we should have in other environmental and natural and climate issues as well. the work on the montreal protocol, which came into being in the late 1980s, is not over, because there are still some unregulated emissions, and new substances are coming in that time. and there are also, as some other speakers have said, clear links between these ozone depleting substances and the climate issue. so we have some of these substances that are extremely potent greenhouse gases: they can be thousands, up to 22,000 times worse per molecule than carbon dioxide. but besides, we have the big problem that when the greenhouse effect is increased, it gets warmer down here at the earth's surface but at the same time colder up in the stratosphere where the ozone layer is. and if that cooling continues, there's a high risk that healing the ozone layer will take a lot, much longer. therefore, if we are to take the ozone problem seriously, we must also take the climate issue even more seriously and learn from the ambitions we have made so far in terms of the ozone deposit and do the same in other matters.
madam president, geachte premier de croo, europe’s streets are not safe. last year, two swedes were murdered in brussels by an islamist terrorist, an illegal alien. but ending illegal migration is only the first step to safe societies. the islamists, the gang soldiers, are often second generation – and your country’s migration crisis, prime minister, isn’t solely caused by illegal migration. a big role is played by the universal right to apply for asylum. but commissioner schinas claims it is europe’s destiny to be an asylum destination. one million asylum claims in europe last year. un asylum rules make 780 million people eligible for asylum. prime minister de croo, the universal right to asylum is a threat to the future of europe. move the asylum procedure outside eu territory and process asylum claims in the first safe country. that’s a migration policy that would work for europe.
madam president, mr prime minister, less than a month ago the spanish presidency of the union agreed on a migration pact. with the invasion of europe continuing with 270 000 illegal immigrants arriving on our shores and more than 1 million asylum applications in 2023, this agreement is obviously unacceptable. the distribution of migrants remains the key to this disastrous project and is an intolerable call for action. and those who do not want to pay a fine of 20,000 euros for each refused migrant. tens of millions of people from africa and the middle east are eager to come, and commissioner johansson encourages them. it wants 4.5 million immigrants a year to the european union. it even claims, with regrettable pride, that the agreement is, i quote, a victory for migrants. if the belgian presidency really wants to protect our borders in order to help greece, italy and spain, it is obvious that the course must change: systematically send the illegal immigrants home, force the countries of origin, under diplomatic and economic pressure, to recover their nationals, grant asylum only for individual persecutions, encourage birth and be proud of our identity. we must not disperse migrants, we must simply send them back in large numbers and quickly. it is the future of our children and our civilization that is at stake.
the commission has already decided to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods. i'd like to start by saying goodbye to all of you. and to you, mr prime minister, a happy hand in your presidency. the belgian presidency has done, as we have heard, a lot, a lot. i'm fine with that. i think it's important to set the right priorities. and for me, two things are basic: the first is the fight against irregular migration. i think the most important thing is that the migration pact, which was negotiated last december, is concluded. and i ask you to really put your best foot forward so that this package can really come into force and, in parallel, to do everything possible to conclude agreements with third countries that also allow the return of rejected, non-resident migrants. the second important issue is to support and strengthen competitiveness in the european union. they said that we are actually well positioned in europe, we have the single market, we have the euro, we have our own currency, we have healthy, medium-sized enterprises with high innovation power. but, ladies and gentlemen, you know, everyone suffers from bureaucracy, from excessive regulation. and that is the most important thing for me: i prefer to do less in this area, not to introduce new templates, regulations, reporting obligations. less is more. we need to relieve our medium-sized businesses. the same applies to agriculture, which is also suffering from high pressures and burdens. i think that is the most important thing for the coming months. good luck again. - good luck with that.
madam president, it was actually about the intervention of mr vandendriessche, but my my request wasn’t noticed. this is the umpteenth time that i hear mr vandendriessche using nazi terminology in this hemicycle. i have requested repeatedly that it is investigated whether or not the use of nazi terminology is acceptable in this hemicycle. he is using the term ‘omvolking’, which is also a term which was used, for example, by the neo-nazis who met with the afd members about the deportation of millions of people from germany. it is not an innocent term. i would really like that the presidency of this house is looking into the use of this terminology very openly. he is actually proud of using nazi terminology. it has no place in this hemicycle. thank you.
thank you. it will be done.
madam president, mr de croo, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the belgian presidency today in a key semester to close many of the legislative texts still pending and thus fulfil our mandate. at the end of this presidency, the citizens of europe are called to the polls and to put our work to democratic consideration. these are elections that will likely change the composition of this institution and where solutions to the great challenges facing our union - geopolitical, economic, social - such as immigration, the environment, the social pact, digitalisation - will be confronted. but this presidency will also deal with values, it will deal with the rule of law, which is more threatened than ever and remains a pending task that you and your presidency, mr minister, will have to address. mr de croo, i wish you the same luck as your predecessor, mr sanchez, but i will ask you for many more hits. the rotating presidency allows each state to direct and coordinate the work of all, to demand from others, but that requires one to demand even more from oneself, to lead by example. respect for the rule of law is also judicial cooperation between member states. it is the only recipe for building mutual trust, for consolidating a union that is a common area of rights and obligations, not a charter. i ask that this presidency put respect for the rule of law at the heart of the debate, and that it does not fall into the mistake that many in this house make: the political color of only seeing attacks when they come from one side of the bench or from some member states. attacks on our core values do not understand color or geography. you have the opportunity to correct that double-tone, that selective coloring, in the coming months. mr de croo, do not let the socialists teach you. they have enough with the situation of the rule of law in any of their governments to tell us liberals what we must do or not do. all you can say is that this liberal group will be with you this semester, supporting you in your decisions.
madam president, mr prime minister, we are very pleased that the belgian presidency has given priority to the rule of law. but yesterday it was revealed that the spanish government of mariano rajoy, of the dolors montserrat people's party, investigated prospectively, without judicial authorization and outside the law on the independence parties, with false accusations from the police with the approval of the ministry of interior. and this operation has led to the repression of hundreds of catalans in flagrant violation of the rule of law. spain is perhaps the only eu country where politicians who violate the rule of law go unpunished, while innocent politicians have been imprisoned or exiled. the belgian courts themselves have recognized this in the case of my colleague luis puig. as belgium has always done with political exiles, from victor hugo to the present day with catalan exiles, the law of amnesty and the recognition of this persecution suffered by the independents is the way to stop them. as regards the priority of the links between culture and european identity, we call on this presidency to work towards making catalan official in the european union. catalans simply want catalan, the only language with two million speakers that is not yet part of the european union, to be recognised.
- madam speaker, please. in sweden, we see how organized crime and gang wars ravage our entire society. last year, 53 people were shot to death. we had 363 shots fired. the swedish government has now launched a very important and welcome offensive against the gangs. but crime is cross-border. seven out of ten criminal networks are active in more than three countries simultaneously. i therefore welcome the belgian presidency's designation of the fight against organised crime as one of its top priorities. i am absolutely convinced that more needs to be done. the next term of office will require a whole new dimension to security and security in europe: a more operational european police force, the collection of the assets of criminals and the strengthening of border controls so that weapons and drugs cannot flow freely into europe.
the reporter. mr president, colleagues, dear citizens and citizens. we have great news from the european parliament. we have a new law that will bring positive changes to our daily lives. we're not going to be collecting waste. we're putting order in the business of industry and most importantly, protecting citizens from dishonesty in the common market. i'm always proud when we stand up for the weakest in the marketplace - our citizens. today, we put people before profit. this law is telling the industry a lot. we're throwing out the buy model. we want products that last longer. most citizens say that the devices they buy break down somewhere between the second and third years of use. just when the mandatory warranty expires. it's probably not a coincidence. that's why we're banning commercial communication about products that have built-in defects. we also prohibit related practices like forcing consumers to replace a consumer part sooner than they really need to or even presenting software updates as necessary when they really don't. do you want to know how long the product will last before you buy it? more than 85 percent of croatian and european citizens want it. that's why we're introducing a new number of years of commercial warranty. the commission has therefore concluded that the commission is not in a position to take any further measures to prevent the introduction of a new product under the heading 'commercial product' or 'commercial product' in the union. when in the market, the consumer will be able to easily choose a product with a long-term sustainability guarantee. that way, sustainable choice will be an option for everyone, not just those in a deeper pocket. in view of the fact that over 60% of eu citizens do not know that they have a mandatory guarantee for all products on the market, the labels will also contain a reminder of this. in addition, all stores will have a poster with a mandatory warranty of at least two years. most citizens in the european union consider the environment when they shop. it's been seen by both traders and manufacturers, and that's why we live in a jungle of unverified green labels and claims. such labels are often checked by the same person who places them. today we're putting order in that jungle. sustainable, biodegradable, conscious, green, natural. in the european union, there are more than 1200 such labels and claims, of which only a third have passed some form of verification. we'll also ban all such claims that don't have an environmental impact. we're putting order in the jungle. green claims that are future-related, such as 30% emissions reductions by 2025, will need to be based on a detailed implementation plan. to avoid a dead letter on paper, a plan must have a budget and be implemented by independent experts. we're putting order in the jungle. sustainability labels will have to undergo certification procedures or be approved by national authorities. we're putting order in the jungle. when you see a product that says climate neutral, what do you think? that mother nature produced it herself? or at least that it's highly sustainable in terms of content, the way it's packed or transported? it often means nothing. that's why we're banning claims based on carbon neutralization. nothing is ever climate neutral. such claims are always false.dear colleagues and colleagues, we are at the end of a long process and i really feel joy and pride and i look forward to seeing the changes we have made in practice. it's going to be a real little sustainable revolution. i want to thank all of you who worked on this document, commissioner reynders and his team, as well as the spanish permanent representation and a truly constructive team. finally, let me say something personal. i want to thank the croatian people. you're the ones who have given me the idea and motivation to fight all these years. it's been a real privilege working with you and for your own good.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be among you today for this debate on the new directive we have proposed to give consumers more means to take action on the green transition. many misleading commercial practices such as early obsolescence, ecoblancement, lack of transparency and credibility of certain sustainability labels have been identified within the european union in recent years. these practices are not in line with the green transition objectives set out in the green pact. in this context, the commission welcomes the agreement reached by the co-legislators last september on this new directive, and i would like to congratulate the co-legislators because the text is now ready for final adoption by parliament. the commission is convinced that the new rules will improve consumer protection and enable consumers to make more sustainable choices, thus contributing to the green transition. these rules will also ensure a level playing field for enterprises and improve the functioning of the internal market. i would like to thank you for the work done, and in particular by the rapporteur, ms biljana borzan, and the imco committee, on this important proposal for consumer protection. i particularly welcome that the co-legislators found an ambitious but balanced agreement to ensure that consumers can more easily contribute to the green transition. let me highlight a few elements. for example, the new directive will strengthen the credibility and transparency of voluntary sustainability labels, by ensuring that they are based on certification schemes, or established by public authorities. furthermore, an important novelty is also that companies will no longer be able to claim that their products are climate-neutral, positive for the climate, or have a reduced impact on climate based on carbon-offsetting projects outside the products value chain. today, we see too often that such claims give the misleading impression to consumers that the consumption of such products has no impact on the environment. i am also pleased that consumers will be better protected against several harmful practices associated with the early obsolescence of goods. for example, any commercial communication on goods with features introduced to limit their durability will be banned. finally, the commission also welcomes the new rules which will provide consumers with better information at the point of sale, through a new harmonised label on the durability of goods, and a harmonised notice reminding consumers of their legal guarantee rights, thanks to parliament's efforts. this will ensure that consumers will more easily identify which goods are truly durable, and for how long, and will make them more aware of their rights. in conclusion, the commission strongly believes that the new directive is a major step forward in empowering consumers to buy more sustainably, to facilitate enforcement by public authorities, and to create a level playing field for businesses. we believe that together with other related legislative initiatives, such as the green claims proposal, the eco-design regulation, and the proposed directive on the right to repair that we will again discuss in the trilogue at the beginning of february it will support the necessary changes to implement the eu green deal. so, i thank you for your attention, but i thank you first of all for your support.
for the ppe group. mr president, the european commissioner! - what? today the eu is taking a major step towards increasing green trade in europe. now we're stopping false environmental claims and tightening the requirements for environmental labels. by stopping greenwashing, we are now making it harder to mislead consumers. we are creating fairer competition and facilitating the climate change situation. to ensure that consumers feel safe when shopping, so are products that claim to be green. this should be a matter of course for anyone who wants to see companies take their responsibility for climate change. but the road here has been a lot harder than i thought. for despite this, the environment party and its party friends have tried to ban all environmental labels, stop companies from telling about their climate work and thus stop the consumption of green products. i think this is totally sealed. for how will it be easier for consumers to find organic baby food or eco-friendly laundry without labels? how do we actually encourage companies to take responsibility for their climate if they're not even allowed to talk about their sustainability work? i think it's gonna be easy to do the right thing. it must be easier for consumers to shop sustainably and easier for businesses to become climate-smart. and it is actually thanks to the fact that we have stopped the environment party and its party friends here in the european parliament that this new law is finally coming into force. for greenwashing, it must be stopped whether it comes from businesses or from environmental leftists.
mr. speaker, what is this? the commission, colleagues and the audience! we must take the threat of climate change seriously. using the market and the power of consumers is one of the strongest drivers of change. but then you, as a consumer, must be able to make conscious choices. many of us want to take responsibility for the climate, but it's not always that simple. one thing that may be good from a climate perspective may be less good in another way. as a consumer, you must be able to trust the information you receive about the products, and it is not okay to mislead or risk making false claims. a sustainability stamp must keep its promise. it is welcome that the eu is now strengthening consumer power and using the green transition market. that's what we have to do for the climate, and that's how we get results.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the war between israel and hamas is between a liberal democracy defending itself against an eu-listed terror organisation supported by authoritarian states such as iran, china, russia and north korea. to establish a ceasefire, the answer is simple: hamas must release all hostages, including the remains of those murdered, and ensure their safe and dignified return to israel. for peace, palestinians must end their support for terrorism. their support for hamas is at an all-time high. a vast majority of palestinians support an armed struggle, meaning terrorism against israel. the fight against terrorism and authoritarianism must be won, whether in ukraine, taiwan or israel. i stand with democracy and freedom. i stand with israel. do you?
mr president, colleagues, where is our credibility to be able to demand respect for international law if this parliament and our governments cannot stand up for it at every time and everywhere? let me remind everyone in here about the following facts: israel has killed over 24 000 palestinians in gaza, mostly women, children, elderly and un staff, since 7 october, as a response to hamas’s despicable terrorist attacks. yes, hamas should be combated, not innocent civilians. over 57 000 palestinians have been injured; more than 85% – that is, 1.9 million – of the population in gaza are internally displaced. if these atrocities are not sufficient for us to demand: a permanent ceasefire; full support for the ongoing investigation by the international court of justice; sanctions against israeli settlements in palestine; utilisation of the tools provided in the eu-israel association agreement that require respect for international law, including human rights; and to ensure sufficient support for the important work of unwra – then, my colleagues, i question what it will take for the eu to consistently stand up for international law. furthermore, i wonder about the credibility of our union. history is being written today and my question is which side do you stand on – international law or not?
mr president, in an average school in sweden, there are around 200 children. if sweden were gaza one school, full of children would be killed every other day. one school full of children would be bombed by the israeli occupation forces to death every day. since the israeli war against gaza, over 10 000 children have died. many more are still missing, buried under collapsed buildings. thousands have been seriously injured. more than 1000 children have lost their legs. if this is not a reason to lay down every damn weapon in this conflict, then this world has gone completely mad! in december, i visited the rafah crossing between gaza and egypt, and there i saw humanitarian help desperately needed in gaza, but not reaching the people who are suffering and starving. suffering primarily because of israeli bombs. starving mainly because of the israeli blockade. without a ceasefire, this catastrophe will just go on and on and more children will be killed. i call upon the eu to demand an immediate ceasefire, so our humanitarian aid can actually reach, to respect any decision made by the international court of justice regarding the ongoing violence in gaza, to raise our voices and open our eyes, to be the defendant to the end of every child’s right to life.
mr president, seldom have i read some such unadulterated piffle as the praise heaped on the conference on the future of europe in these reports. national parliaments are elected for a temporary time and contingent on the safeguarding of our country’s sovereignty and liberties. national parliamentarians do not have the right to hand over sovereignty without asking for an explicit mandate from the people. the conference on the future of europe was a sham and a scam. giving the european institutions more power because some randomly selected citizens, guided by federalist meps, said they want it, is not how democracy works. we should trust the peoples. new powers should only be transferred to the institutions after all national parliaments have secured a majority running on an explicit mandate to transfer power, or lacking this, a positive referendum result in all countries.
mr. speaker, what is this? i think many of us were badly affected when we saw the images from italy, from rome where fascists gathered in black and to the sound of their talkers gave fascist greetings. we often talk about europe as the cradle of democracy, that we are the centre of equality, equality and freedom. but europe is also the place where nazism and fascism grew and were given power. will you passively watch the fascists, nazis and racists once again take their place in public spaces? in local governments, in governments and in parliaments? are you one of those people who normalizes and thinks it's probably not that dangerous? or will you organize and resist?
normally we would have a ‘catch-the-eye procedure’, but i do not have anyone who wishes to speak, so i will now ask the commissioner to take the floor.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the debate today illustrated the importance and complexity of the situation in ecuador. tackling the crisis in ecuador requires addressing the immediate security situation, as well as the social, political and structural problems that have fuelled the violence over the past years. corruption, poverty, lack of opportunities and social inequalities are breeding grounds for criminal activities. as we collaborate with the ecuadorian government in its efforts to restore order, we will also continue looking together into long-term solutions, allowing the people in ecuador, especially children and teenagers, to live free from the shadow of organised crime and prosper in a peaceful, secure and democratic country.
the debate is closed. now let's move on to brief descriptions.
the next item on the agenda is a brief summary of the tom berendsen report on the comprehensive european port strategy (2023/2059(ini)) (a9-0443/2023).
mr president, firstly, thanks to my colleague tom for doing great work in this area. ports are absolutely vital for our economy, in terms of trade but, as he pointed out, especially for a decarbonised economy where we’re going to have a huge amount of offshore wind, and we need to develop our ports. but he is absolutely right: we need to ensure that we control and own our ports, and this is not the case in many places at the moment. that’s certainly something that has to be tackled and done, as he said, collectively in europe, rather than individual ports trying to deal with it. i’m not aware of any ownership of ports in ireland, but ports like foynes, bantry, cork, waterford, rosslare have huge potential to both help the local communities, but especially to ensure that we can avail of the massive wind potential both in the celtic sea and in the atlantic ocean. so developing the infrastructure ports has to happen as quickly as possible.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the commission would like first to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr berendsen, for this important report. we fully share the view that we need to support and improve the competitiveness, resilience and twin green and digital transition of eu ports and of the whole eu transport sector. this will allow the sector to grow in a way that is sustainable, both in social and environmental terms. we highlighted from the very beginning of this mandate, these priorities, in our strategy for smart and sustainable mobility, in which we lay the ground for the future strategic development of the entire transport system, including the ports. the strategy confirms that ports, as transport and logistic hubs, are key for our internal and international connectivity, for military purposes, for our economy, for reducing the co2 emissions and pollution from transport. in line with the requirements in the alternative fuel infrastructure regulation, ports will provide clean fuels and electricity to ships. they will also contribute to the energy transition by becoming sustainable energy hubs – for example for offshore wind, for the production and import of hydrogen, for carbon capture and storage. this is why, at the request of the european parliament, the commission launched a pilot project – the port electricity commercial model – to be finalised in the first half of this year. the project has already identified several clean energy business models that reduce emissions from port operations, including onshore power supply. these models, which could be replicated across the eu, are primarily reliant on increased electrification. the european economy benefits from the international trade and foreign investments that ports attract, and which help create jobs and growth. european companies are, for example, among the world leaders in maritime transport and logistics. however, we need to ensure that investments from third countries do not lead to strategic dependencies and do not pose risks to european security and public order. the existing foreign direct investment screening regulation already equips eu with a framework and common criteria to identify and assess risks linked to the foreign acquisition or control of strategic assets, including in transport, energy and communication infrastructures. looking back on the last three years of implementation of fdi screening, the commission was notified of more than 1 200 such cases by member state authorities, with some also concerning transactions linked to critical infrastructure. at the same time, it is concerning that not all member states have a national mechanism in place. building on these experiences, the commission will propose a revision of the fdi screening regulation. we look forward to work with the legislators to ensure that the eu rules for fdi screening remain fit for purpose and allow for a better and more consistent identification and mitigation of risks to security or public order for certain foreign investments. the economic security strategy also reiterates the commission’s call to all member states which have not yet implemented national fdi screening mechanisms, to do so without further delay. the main objective of the revision will be to ensure that all member states screen foreign acquisition of eu companies active in sensitive sectors, and improve the functioning of the current screening mechanism between member states and the commission. the revision of the ten-t regulation, agreed by the co-legislators in december last year, gives increased importance to maritime transport and ports by creating a european maritime space, the maritime dimension of the ten-t. ports’ more prominent role in the energy transition is also reflected in the addition of a number of ports to the ten-t network. however, let us also acknowledge that attaining our ambitious objectives of the 24 ports will require significant investment in the coming years. the revision also includes a provision on the control of foreign investment in transport infrastructure, and notably on the construction of transport infrastructure by third country companies. the political agreement requires member states to make all possible efforts to ensure that ten-t infrastructure is protected against those threats. they must assess the potential risks arising from third-country participation or contributions to a project of common interest, and take appropriate countermeasures. their assessment should in particular focus on the supply for the building, operation and maintenance of infrastructure, as well as access to sensitive information, including personal data. assessments must also address third-country capabilities to control such information in conjunction with the building, operation and maintenance of the infrastructure. together with other instruments, the examples that i have mentioned today show how we have taken action to strengthen the control of foreign influence on the european economy, including imports, and to bolster our resilience. the commission has recognised the need to ensure the resilience of ports to the threat posed also by organised crime and drug trafficking, through october’s eu roadmap to fight drug trafficking and organised crime within the eu port alliance. the priorities of the roadmap include closer cooperation between customs authorities, law enforcement, public and private actors in ports, which will increase the resilience of ports against criminal infiltration. i am pleased to announce that a launch event of the public-private partnership with ports will be held on the 24 january in antwerp. this will be the occasion to kick off the work of this important initiative, with the aim of building a level playing field against criminal infiltration in ports. the commission remains open to considering options for further action if they are balanced, respect international obligations and agreements and can bring clear added value to our existing strategies and tools. however, any such initiatives would be for the next commission to decide and would require thorough preparation, including stakeholder consultation and possible impact assessment.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 171)
in writing. to draw attention to the importance of maritime transport and in particular port infrastructure, the european parliament initiated and adopted by an overwhelming majority the report on the construction of a comprehensive european port strategy. the initiative for this report is the ep ppe group, which has highlighted the danger posed by third-country investments, in particular those of china, in european port infrastructure. i believe that in order to secure the eu's strategic independence it is necessary to limit the influence that non-eu states, and in particular china, can exert through control of european ports. the maintenance of eu ports under eu control cannot be made punctual or disappear. the european commission must urgently come up with a european port strategy, which limits the influence and operational control of non-eu actors in european ports. to give just one example, russia's war in ukraine has shown us, if necessary, how important european ports are to ensuring global food security. before we can set strategic directions for action, we need to know the reality of where we're starting. in this regard, parliament calls on the commission to carry out an assessment of the risks posed by china's involvement in eu maritime infrastructure.
the next item on the agenda is a brief summary of the javier moreno sánchez report on the implementation of the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) (2023/2001(ini)) (a9-0400/2023).
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, canada is a natural and essential partner of europe, especially in the geopolitical context of recent years. not only because we share values, culture and history, but also because we value their tolerant and negotiating talents, their firm democratic tradition and their defence of the welfare state. in short, canadians are the most european outside europe. gentlemen, if we don't make a deal with them, who would we do it with? the ceta agreement shall apply provisionally from 21 september 2017. it was signed at a time when there was much controversy surrounding trade agreements. but ceta has far exceeded the initial fears and negative prophecies. it has been a positive agreement that goes far beyond merely trade and has even fueled reflection on the modernisation of subsequent trade agreements in the european union. first, by incorporating other dimensions, such as cooperation on environmental issues related to trade, adoption of recommendations on gender equality and incorporation of other topics such as artificial intelligence or cybersecurity. secondly, it is an inclusive cooperation agreement with its 19 specialised committees, its regulatory cooperation forum and its civil society forum, which brings together hundreds of representatives from across the union and canada. in addition, ceta promotes a safer, more predictable and more stable economic environment, with full respect for the principles of sustainable development, human rights and labour and environmental standards. the agreement has brought substantial economic benefits, with a considerable increase in trade in goods, services and investments, as well as in public procurement, making the union canada's third largest trading partner after the united states and china, even during the pandemic and also after the difficult situation created by putin's war of aggression against ukraine. the agreement is therefore very important in the context of current geopolitical uncertainty to ensure also the supply of essential raw materials and food security. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the union's financial resources are fully used. 700 000 jobs depend on our trade with canada and, moreover, since ceta came into force, it has helped to create 75 000 jobs. we are not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the commission. first, the agreement must be made visible by promoting actions that show the advantages and opportunities it offers through information campaigns in both regions. but we must also support businesses, especially smes, with the tools they need to benefit from ceta. we must also promote labour mobility with instruments such as the newly signed architects' convention or the european union's blue card. the protection of geographical indications must also be implemented more effectively. finally, and perhaps most importantly, we must work through parliamentary diplomacy to get the ten member states that have not yet ratified the ceta agreement. this will allow all provisions to be applied, in particular as regards investment protection. the agreement will also offer us the possibility of working together on the reconstruction of ukraine once the war is over. and finally, mr president, i would like to thank all the actors involved in the preparation of the report, especially the alternate speakers, who have undoubtedly improved my initial proposal, and also our canadian friends for their cooperation and welcome when i was there on a mission. i hope that this house tomorrow will support this report by a large majority.
a uachtaráin, well done to the rapporteur. i remember the joy that was in my group, the epp, the night ceta was passed here in the european parliament, by the biggest vote in favour of a trade agreement ever at that time. and of course, subsequently it has had provisional application. however, i was disappointed, like my colleagues in fine gael in ireland, and others as well, that the supreme court ruled the ratification of it was unconstitutional, according to the irish constitution. but thankfully, it doesn’t require a referendum. i think an amendment to the arbitration act of 2010 will do the business, but of course, it has provisional application. there has been 30 % growth in trade between ireland and canada in the last number of years, as the rapporteur pointed out, creating 75 000 jobs across europe. in fairness to the canadians, ireland and the other nine countries that haven’t ratified it should ratify it as quickly as possible – because canada is a great country and it welcomed and gave jobs to an awful lot of europeans at the time of the recession here when they couldn’t get jobs in europe.
mr. speaker, what is this? i would like to begin by thanking all the colleagues who fought for the entry into force of this free trade agreement in 2017. i remember you fighting back and forth, because the criticism was loud from many quarters. but i can tell you that the critics were wrong. now, seven years later, we can look at the statistics on how many benefits this agreement has given to the eu: an export increase of about 60%, lots of new jobs and most of all, of all companies, it has benefited smes. and not least, it has benefited many in the agricultural and food sectors, where criticism was perhaps greatest. despite this, despite all these advantages, criticism still haunts free trade agreements. it's very strange. but we, free trade friends, can stretch our backs and say: now we move on, now we conclude more free trade agreements, not least with mercosur!
mr president, the commission and the council! yes, russia's brutality in ukraine continues, and infrastructure is under attack, families are torn apart, and lives are ruined. we stand as passive spectators as the people of ukraine fight in the trenches unless we are prepared to act together. it is therefore surprising that eu leaders have not yet been able to agree on support for ukraine. right-wing forces have a huge responsibility here. populism and extremism are a dangerous road ahead dangerous for ukraine, for europe and for my country sweden. the russian invasion of ukraine is not just an attack on a single european country; it is an attack on us all, on democracy and on our security. we need to unite, to stand together in an uncertain time, to have the power to act, to act together and to stand up for peace and security in europe.
author. – mr president, (start of speech off mic) ... on the initiative of the epp group – quality jobs in a competitive and future-oriented social market economy. in other words, we are essentially discussing the foundation of all other policies that this house may or may not want to pursue. i say so because sufficient funding is a prerequisite for all other political priorities, particularly the ones concerned with social policy. and i say so because, regardless of what socialists might claim, such funding can in the long term be available only as a result of increased european competitiveness, with better and more high paying, european quality jobs. what then must be done to achieve this foundational target? a lot, of course, especially considering the worrying trends of european competitiveness lagging further and further behind our global competitors. but i would emphasise three especially important areas of actions: better skills, a more competitive regulatory framework and an increased respect for the principle of subsidiarity. firstly, the still ongoing european year of skills, however, is another ep priority and has been and is a success in promoting the mindset of reskilling, upskilling and innovation that must be centre stage in order to help our companies, in particular smes, with an urgent european skills shortage. the two council recommendations adopted in this context are two good examples of concrete legislative actions already taken. european funding, for instance, from the digital europe programme to numerous research projects and public private partnerships, are in the same vein: prime examples of cases where european action creates an added value in the area of skills, in particular ict skills. secondly, better skills, however, will only carry us only so far if our regulatory framework is not of a similarly high qualitative standard. the good news is that while many of the skills of a competitive europe indeed are quite advanced, the recipe for a more competitive regulatory framework is not exactly rocket science. european companies need more of a level playing field in relation to their global competitors, and this, in short, means that europe needs to cut red tape. several key actions have already been announced by the commission. we must urgently get in place the reductions of the burden associated with reporting requirements for businesses by at least 25%, and we must work towards a regulatory moratorium in relevant, severely overregulated fields, while also ensuring, of course, that every new piece of legislation passes the standard of an eu competitiveness check. lastly, we are talking about quality jobs in a social market economy. my sincere hope is that the commission, as well as colleagues of a more federalist persuasion, will take to heart that such an economic model can only be built by respecting the principle of subsidiarity and the vastly different social models in the member states. the important calls for european actions for a more competitive social market economy must not be confused for calls for centralised and streamlined social policies. with a more competitive europe, with more and better higher paid jobs, we will be better off together, united in a prosperous diversity.
for the verts/ale group. - mrs. speaker, please. hate, threats and fear of violence are things that many of my lgbtq friends are forced to deal with in their everyday lives. it's getting worse. violence against lgbtq people in europe is more severe and serious than in 10 years. we're losing the fight against hate. and by "we", i mean all of us who are doing everything in our power to make a world a world where everyone can be who they are, love who they want, and live in freedom and security. for there are other politicians, also in this house and in our member states, who are not part of this "we". which instead ignites hatred. they are, among other things, the ones who rule in sweden. when politicians make a difference between people and people and they burn hate by doing so, it affects everyone. it's more hate. hate crimes and hate propaganda must be criminalized throughout the eu! but we must not forget that punishment is a response to a crime that has already been committed. do we really want to make a difference? if we want to win the fight against hate, we have to do more. and it starts with us in power.
- madam speaker, please. ′′ my girlfriend's getting a stab wound to the face. i'm getting kicked out. then they disappear just as quickly". yes, the words come from a young woman who, along with her girlfriend, was the victim of hate crimes in sweden. these serious crimes have devastating consequences for individuals, society and democracy in general. in europe, there are strong extreme forces that use this very thing hatred and threats to increase division, silence opponents and undermine democracy. we see it on the internet, on our streets and squares, and we see it in this house. hate and hate propaganda must be fought. i therefore welcome the effort to fight these divisive forces and, at all times, to stand up for the right of the people to democracy and cohesion!
rapporteur. – madam president, we know from history that poverty feeds populism and extremism. poverty is probably one of the greatest threats to our democracy, gender equality and the green transition. the past years, with the crazy inflation and russia’s illegal invasion of ukraine, we have seen energy poverty rising. across the continent, millions of eu citizens are struggling to make ends meet and having to choose between heating or eating. we have a responsibility to act because it is the vulnerable that pay the price for our dependence on fossil fuels and the volatile energy market. the only long-term remedy against demand shocks and price volatility is that socially just transition to a green and more efficient energy system. energy poverty is a recognised challenge at eu level, according to the european commission. energy poverty is a widespread problem across europe. between 50 and 125 million people are unable to afford proper indoor thermal comfort. we also know that poverty has a female face. globally and in the eu, women are far more likely to experience or fall into energy poverty. and we also know that the situation is growing worse and gendered energy poverty is increasing. this commission promised to leave no one behind in the green transition. this commission also said it was committed to gender equality. but unfortunately, the commission has delivered a green deal and energy policies that are completely gender blind. in short, these important policies lack gender impact assessments. they lack gender-disaggregated data, and they lack gender indicators. in practice, the result is that europe is failing to secure a socially fair energy transition. structural problems require structural solutions. therefore, intersecting data and a gender responsive approach must be a pillar in eu policy making. the report presents several concrete measures to combat the rise of gendered poverty, and calls on the commission to really walk the talk on gender equality. to conclude, a green transition that is socially fair and leaves no woman behind, is an absolute prerequisite for the success of the green deal and for a gender equal european union. and finally, a big thank you to my beloved colleagues from the femm committee who worked constructively on the report. thank you for great collaboration.
- madam speaker, please. the commission! yes, the cost crisis is hitting our societies with full force, and the worst hit are women and children. every month, families around europe worry about being able to pay their bills. some parents cannot afford the heat, clothes, or even enough food for their children. in my country, sweden, one in three single mothers' incomes go down every month. this is totally unacceptable on one of the richest continents in the world! we can't wait another day to cut the cost of ordinary people. the eu must cut electricity bills, and we must also become independent of russian gas and crude oil. it is, in fact, about security, security policy and climate change. eu policy must make a difference for everyone. i would like to thank my swedish colleague, alice kuhnke, for an incredibly important report in an uneasy and uncertain time. children, single mothers, yes, all citizens of the eu, should be able to feel secure through life, even when crises and wars affect our societies and our europe.
i'm the reporter. - mrs. speaker, please. and thank you, commissioner, for your commitment, for the fire! how wonderful that so many of us are willing to take the facts and stand up and present proven scientific methods for fighting poverty. now is the big step for us to move from these words to action and to an exciting vote tomorrow.
- madam speaker, please. - what? for every day that goes by, civilians are killed and expelled in sudan. conflict between the sudanese army (saf) and the paramilitary group rapid support forces (rsf) has led to a huge humanitarian crisis with life-threatening and acute food insecurity as a consequence. it affects almost half the population, and almost seven million are refugees in their own countries. the situation is so alarming that humanitarian aid is not even reaching those in conflict zones. and as usual, women and children are the ones who suffer the most and the worst. as in many other conflicts, we see sexual violence against women being used. what is happening in sudan right now is heartbreaking and totally unacceptable. all those involved must immediately lay down their arms and allow humanitarian aid to reach the people of all parts of the country. the commission has already adopted a number of amendments to the treaty on european union. never, ever, anywhere can we accept impunity for those who are behind heinous crimes against human rights.
- madam speaker, please. if we were united, we would fall apart. it's a well-known expression by a greek writer, and it's speaking. now 27 countries, despite hungary and orbán, have agreed to support ukraine. that's good, but it's not enough. this is about ukrainian life, but it's also about our security, and putin knows it. that's why he and his friends are doing everything they can to divide us. no one can close their eyes to it anymore. no one in here can close their eyes to that. in a european democracy, we need to defend democracy every day, and the right to vote is our most important tool. the european elections will be a different one. cohesion and security must overcome division and anxiety. that is the debate we are going to have, my colleagues.
- madam speaker, please. the ukrainians are fighting not only for their freedom but for the freedom of all of us. we know that. the ukrainians know that too. but only those who know what it is like to live in some sort of everyday life while your daughter, your son, your husband or wife are soldiers on the front lines. only those who know what it's like to pack their children's school bags with that little extra every day that's going to be needed if the airlock goes off and the child can't come home, but has to hide in a safe room. only those who know what it feels like two years after a full-scale russian invasion are forced to listen and follow humiliating discussions about how much their fight for our freedom will cost. this time, putin lost viktor orbán, and ukraine can get the support it needs. but it will come next time, as long as orbán and anti-democrats are allowed to take russia out of our shared values. slave ukraine, you know.
the rapporteur. mr speaker, i would like to thank you for your support. every day we eat breakfast, lunch and dinner thanks to farmers who invested and used the land to feed us on the table. it is thanks to them that europe has a world-class food supply. but today our farmers are on their knees and fighting and many are wondering if it's worth it. much of this is due to drought and flooding, which ultimately affect the quality, size and thus profitability of the crops. at the same time, we are facing a global food crisis, and in a time of war and anxiety, we see how vulnerable we are to disruptions in trade flows and how it deeply affects your and my daily lives. european farmers must be given the right tools to face the future, as demands on agriculture increase and as the climate changes. today we have a technology that is price-earning and can help us take a step forward in the eu's climate action a technology that allows us to strengthen the competitiveness of european agriculture and increase our food supply. but even though both knowledge and technology are already in place, we cannot take advantage of this opportunity in europe. for many years, the issue has been debated. it has now been debated in the european parliament for several months. it is a proposal that lays the foundation for a modern regulatory framework and enables and permits ngt in a safe and responsible manner. there will always be new challenges where politics must be bold and forward-looking to find new solutions, where politics must rely on innovation and science. this is such an opportunity. ngt is used in other parts of the world. if we want the eu to continue to be a pioneer in innovation and new technologies, we also need to have a regulatory framework in place that enables this. it does not look like that today, but tomorrow this parliament will have the opportunity to say yes to new technologies and to the future. by voting yes to the proposal, we are showing that we are a parliament that stands for science and invests in the future of agriculture. in 2020, the nobel prize in chemistry was awarded to scientists emmanuelle charpentier and jennifer doudna for their groundbreaking research on the crispr/cas9 gene. let us make 2024 the year when we show that europe can not only praise scientific breakthroughs but also use them to europe's advantage.
madam president, the new gmos! i have only one minute to talk about a text that could have consequences for generations. it's already a challenge in itself. i shall highlight three of the major problems. firstly, i do not understand why once again the precautionary principle is being sacrificed to the detriment of citizens' health and biodiversity. the european commission is moving in this direction, although many, including scientists, consider the text to be without any scientific basis. secondly, it is the logic itself. even if this text is adopted, a farmer who does not produce gmos has no means of combating contamination of his land. that's just weird. thirdly, it is not provided for in the specific labelling text. the consumer will not be able to know whether he is eating gmos. so he's not allowed to choose. for these three reasons, you should have enough at least to reject the current text. i wish you a good day and do not forget to take your responsibilities tomorrow at the vote.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this debate and for the progress made. as you know, this is a key political file, important for our economy, the sustainability of our food system and the livelihoods of our farmers. with regard to the precautionary principle and are we ignoring it, i would say ‘no, absolutely not’. we fully recognise and uphold the importance of the precautionary principle. the safety of citizens always comes first. the rules we are proposing maintain a high level of protection of human, animal and environmental health. the proposal is based on the current scientific knowledge about the safety of ngt plants. this warrants a proportionate approach based on the different risk profiles that result from the diversity of ngts. this is fully compatible with the precautionary principle. by adapting the regulatory burden to the level of risk, we also support innovation and facilitate the arrival on the european market of safe plants and plant products for farmers and consumers. having said that, i do welcome the constructive spirit that has made it possible to make such rapid progress. let it not be said that the eu did not listen to our farmers and scientists on the need for new tools to support food production and overcome very real challenges, because climate change impacts, such as extreme weather events and new plant pests, pose a direct threat to agriculture here in the eu and worldwide. tomorrow’s vote is an important step in taking this legislative proposal forward.
the rapporteur. - mrs. speaker, please. i thank all my colleagues and the commission for this debate. i think it's pretty clear to those who are listening that this is an engaging question. and that's basically good. we must have an open debate on the future of agriculture and our future food supply, and in particular on ngt, because it is a technology that plays an important role in this work. i believe and hope that today's debate has made clear the position of the various political groups on this issue. it is clear that some never wanted to see this bill at all. others may not be against ngt, but they still want to create a product that makes it impossible to use. what they both have in common is that they cannot offer any constructive options. instead of letting curiosity and commitment guide us, we have let suspicion and prohibition guide us for a long time. i think it's time we gave up our old prejudices and backed up innovation. today's regulation of recycled crops, which is over 20 years old, is out of step with the development of new plant breeding techniques over the years. while other countries are progressively advancing in their development, strengthening both their agriculture and their food supply, there are colleagues in parliament who seem to want to do everything they can to prevent european farmers from taking part in a global development that we are seeing and should be taking part in in other parts of the world. my party group and i, we never said this was the only solution to all our challenges. but it will shift agriculture towards more sustainable. we have said, however, that we need to give our farmers all the tools they need to live up to the objectives we have decided on in this house. ngt plays an important role in this context. i would like to thank you for the opportunity to show tomorrow that we are a parliament that stands for science and innovation.
mr. speaker, what is this? russia's war on ukraine has made it clear that we must take greater responsibility for climate change and make europe fossil-free as soon as possible. we need to stop putin's grip on europe. because despite great efforts, europe continues to finance russia's war budget by pushing up the price of oil and gas. it's the ukraine and the common people who have to pay. i, and we social democrats, will fight to strengthen the eu's climate ambitions and reduce emissions by at least 95 percent by 2040. just cutting by 90 percent is not an increase in ambition, we cannot afford it. and i must remind commissioner hoekstra of your promise to set an ambitious climate target for 2040. it's business as usual. we can't accept that. it's about the future of our children and grandchildren, and it's about fighting back against the russian invasion. that's what's at stake. 95%, please.
mr. speaker, what is this? 90 percent to 2040 may sound ambitious compared to 1990, but it's not enough. it's not in line with what science requires. in addition, we would need to update the scientific evidence given the rapid acceleration of global warming that we are seeing right now. we should have a target of having as few emissions as possible before 2040 so that coal storage can be increased. in this underlying, there's a huge technological optimism about some kind of science fiction technology that's going to be developed and remove carbon from the atmosphere. the way we can remove carbon from the atmosphere on this time scale is in agriculture and forestry which would need to be fundamentally reformed. thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, we cannot just focus on the 2040 goal. we must also continue to discuss the 2030 target. it is also insufficient and would have to be raised to 70%, just as we said in the beginning.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held tomorrow.
the next sitting will be tomorrow, wednesday, 7 february 2024 at 9.00. the agenda has been published and is available on the european parliament website.
the minutes of this sitting will be submitted to parliament for its approval tomorrow after the votes.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first, i would like to welcome the inta committee’s resolution on the upcoming 13th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation, known as mc13. it reflects the eu’s priorities very well. i particularly welcome the emphasis on the importance of multilateralism in general and the wto in particular, in the current challenging geopolitical context. as you know, the eu is playing a leading role in sustaining and reforming the wto as this multilateralism is in our dna. mc13 in abu dhabi starts in less than three weeks. on behalf of executive vice-president valdis dombrovskis, i would like to underline that there is a lot of work to be done in the run-up to the conference and a lot of work to do during the conference itself. replicating the success of mc12 in 2022 will be extremely challenging, but we must be able to show that the process of wto reform launched at mc12 is on track, and that we can and will deliver a more effective organisation. in the commission’s view, a package for mc13 should include the following six components: substantial progress on dispute settlement reform; concluding phase two of the fisheries subsidies negotiations; a pathway for agriculture towards mc14; the extension of the e-commerce moratorium and associated work programme; making the wto a forum to discuss trade and industrial policy and the interface between trade and environment, updating the ‘deliberative function’, in wto jargon; a package for developing countries. the first and most important of these for the eu is dispute settlement reform. indeed, a binding dispute settlement system at the wto has been one of the greatest achievements of this organisation, and we are now counting the costs of its absence with an erosion of respect for wto rules, including through so-called ‘appeals into the void’. in other words, appeals to a non-functioning appellate body. for mc13, the principle that there should be a reformed appellate body and a time frame to have this issue resolved would be the minimum we would hope to achieve. as members of this house are well aware, the conclusion of phase one of the fisheries subsidies agreement at mc12 was an example of the wto’s concrete contribution to implementing the un sustainable development goals. it now behoves us to complete the work at mc13. however, the entry into force of the phase one agreement on fisheries subsidies still remains uncertain as we have not reached the threshold of ratifications, despite the eu having shown leadership in already having ratified it last year. we thus continue to rally the remaining members to ratify the agreement. with regard to the so-called ‘phase two agreement’, we are working hard to conclude it by mc13. unfortunately, divergences of members’ positions have grown. agriculture will be an important file at mc13, not least given the global food insecurity context, but also given its link to development and to environmental sustainability. outcomes at mc13 should, on one hand, address the current food security challenges, in particular for the most vulnerable wto members and, on the other, help advanced agricultural reform towards mc14. in our view, the focus should be on reforming trade-distorting domestic support and finding a solution to the issue of public stockholding for food security purposes. it will be important for the eu to continue promoting the reforms towards more environmentally sustainable policies, in line with the approach in our own agricultural policy. the renewal of the e-commerce moratorium is crucial to maintain business support for the wto. it’s also the key contribution from the wto to the digital transition. we are in a better position now than at a comparable time before mc12, as we have over 100 members, including the acp countries supporting the extension. as a fundamental component of the reform of the organisation, mc13 should ensure that the wto becomes the forum for policy discussions on current global challenges affecting the trading system. one key challenge is the growing use of industrial policies, including industrial subsidies, by governments across the world. another key challenge is the interface between trade and the environment. at mc13, we will need to deliver a development package to unlock a broader set of outcomes on other topics. we can achieve this by mainstreaming development considerations into all aspects of the wto agenda. the package should include a solution for the graduation of least developed countries, so that they can still benefit from certain ldc advantages as they grow out of the ldc status. on a final note, i would like to highlight the conclusions of the negotiations on services, domestic regulation and investment facilitation for development. at mc13, we will most likely see a request for the integration of the investment facilitation agreement into the wto agreement. these developments are important from the perspective of showing that the wto can deliver negotiated outcomes. honourable members, the complex geopolitics, divergent positions and negotiation tactics will make it challenging to reach agreements at mc13 on all the issues i have outlined here. we are sure to have several sleepless nights, as was the case at mc12, but at mc12 we managed to achieve what dg okonjo-iweala called ‘the miracle on the lake’. the eu is fully committed to lead the charge and to work towards a ‘miracle on the gulf’ in abu dhabi.
for the ppe group. mr speaker, i want to speak to you. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues from the other groups for their very good cooperation with this resolution. we have reached a broad consensus in the committee and that is good for strong support in the plenary and a solid european voice for the next ministerial meeting. the resolution focuses on very central areas such as agriculture, fisheries subsidies, trade and climate, a permanent moratorium on digital trade tariffs and, of course, also on facilitating smes. but here and now i want to raise the overall question of the wto organisation. there are dark clouds in the geopolitical sky. european businesses and people face severe economic consequences after the covid-19 pandemic and two wars, one of which is in our absolute vicinity. in addition to all the tragic loss of life, the wars have created additional pressures in the form of inflation, rising energy prices and disruptions to global supply chains. we're constantly reminded of how vulnerable our trade routes are. people now demand security, security and predictability. countries demand trust, cohesion and global partners. a functioning trade is more important than ever. the wto needs to be modernised and reformed. in this context, the eu must use our common weight for an institutional reform of the wto to improve the dispute resolution mechanism, in order to maintain its legitimacy and resolve existing and potential trade conflicts. this is a priority moment for the eu to take on the leadership shirt and to stand up for a more free-trade-friendly world in which a rule-based order is respected and equal conditions prevail.
for the renew group. mr speaker, i want to speak to you. it's hard being a free-trade friend these days. although we need to cooperate and trade with more people than ever before, we have only achieved two free trade agreements with new zealand and vietnam during this mandate. it's not enough. we are losing the wealth of billions of people and we are missing the important collaborations on climate and the environment, technology and investment. it's such a shame. in the run-up to the wto ministerial conference later in february, the eu's message must be clear. an open rules-based trade is the main guarantee of growth and prosperity and we need a functioning wto that upholds these principles. the wto must therefore also be reformed in order to function. disputes must be resolved and the trade organization must be at the forefront so that we can tackle climate change emissions through trade policy. because today we need sustainable trade, not green protectionism. trade must also operate in a digital environment. trade policy can help us to eliminate harmful subsidies that are bad for the climate and that are depleting our biodiversity and our oceans. but at the end of the day, it is about the multilateral system, about standing up for multilateralism at a time when peace and freedom must be defended.
