with my consent today, i pay tribute to all those citizens, the environmental and other civil society organisations, the 62 gmo-free regions in europe.
the present proposal allows member states to prohibit the cultivation of gm crops for environmental, social and health reasons.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the promotion of sustainable management and associated protection of endangered species is welcome in itself.
the gfcm recommendations shall continue to be taken into account, but the protection of the ecological system shall be the primary concern.
the gfcm recommendations shall continue to be taken into account, but the protection of the ecological system shall be the primary concern.
what is needed is an end to the rigorous austerity policy and investments in energy transition, the phasing out of nuclear power, the phasing out of fossil fuels and investing in energy efficiency and in renewables – that is where new jobs will be in the future, and not in infrastructures and models of the last century.
what is needed is social and ecological change; it is needed all over europe, but also in greece.
this is the only way to increase the proportion of women on supervisory boards and in management positions in companies in a sustainable way.
only by doing so can our societies be truly sustainable.
they certainly have big challenges to meet in the energy chapter - it has just been mentioned - with the energy union in the first half of the year.
but stability must be geared to sustainability.
the commission's work programme for 2015 needs concrete and ambitious strategies, including for new growth, the development of the digital single market and a european energy union.
today, at least, he mentioned the basic principles of europe 2020, which include clear climate targets, employment targets, gender equality targets and poverty reduction targets.
we need projects that are sustainable successes, otherwise we will not get private investors.
what they do with the information is they decide whether they are going to make up their own personal diet or whether they are going to make a decision, simply for environmental reasons, for animal welfare reasons, to prefer meat from certain regions, from certain member states.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the effects of the single market.
an effective and sustainable trade policy requires uniform standards, a need that was no longer present in the current version.
the renewal of the agreement between senegal and the european union on sustainable fisheries is welcome from the point of view of the conservation of biodiversity and nature conservation in africa, as it aims above all to allow european vessels access to senegalese waters, while at the same time being subject to the interests of sustainable marine protection, coordinated fishing quotas and scientific recommendations from cecaf and iccat.
sustainable fisheries are of great interest to the european food supply and also represent an important step in senegal's economic development, which is currently focused primarily on the agricultural sector.
these results from better use of available stocks in line with the principles of sustainable fisheries.
sustainable fisheries are an important step forward both for the supply of the european union and for senegal's economic development, which is still heavily based on the agricultural and fisheries sectors.
- i have voted in favour of this agreement, since it is intended to promote the growth opportunities for the senegalese economy arising from a better use of available stocks in accordance with the principles of sustainable fishing.
the strategy paper on the european energy union presented today is certainly a step in the right direction, a step towards greater european competitiveness in the global context, a step towards greater european security of supply, a step towards greater economic growth and hence more employment.
however, there are some aspects which should be emphasized and which i would ask you to take into account, and these include: the development of strategic partnerships with third countries, but also the development of a sustainable development of the strategic energy partnership with russia and the intensification of regional cooperation, in particular the development of european energy infrastructure, the development of european interconnectors.
i also ask you to consider that when reducing co2 in the 2030 and 2020 climate targets, we also have a 20% reindustrialisation target.
the same applies to the introduction of renewable energies on the market and the implementation of the third energy package.
the european union is facing enormous challenges in the energy sector.
on the one hand, we must diversify our energy sources in the interests of security of supply.
on the other hand, there is a need for a strong internal energy market based on the interconnection of electricity grids and a clear commitment to the promotion of renewable energies.
we must drastically reduce energy imports.
the money we spend on this every year could be invested more efficiently in renewable energy development, because by creating sustainable, green jobs, we are also boosting the economy.
the strategy paper for an energy union, however, lacks a clear rejection of nuclear energy.
many areas are interacting within europe on the way to a sustainable energy union.
these are the cornerstones of a sustainable european energy policy.
our aim is to make a progressive contribution to a new global climate agreement in paris.
finally, global warming must be stopped, and with the right foresight, it can be stopped.
the third issue is energy.
we are in favour of promoting renewable energy, of taking sustainability into account.
how can this be reconciled with the approval of the funding for the hinkley point nuclear power station, which is far above what renewable energies are allowed to receive in europe?
energy prices in europe are - and this has already been said today - twice as high for electricity and three to four times as high for gas as in the usa, india or russia.
written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment, the environment and sustainable development, which sets out the objectives of the european union's action plan for the environment, the environment and sustainable development, the european union's action plan for the environment and sustainable development, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan, the european union's action plan for the environment, the european union's action plan, the european union's action plan, the european union's action plan, the european union's action plan, the european union's action plan, the european union's action plan, the union's action plan, the union's action plan, the union's action plan, the union's action plan, the union's action plan, the union's action plan, the union's
the commission has already done so.
‒ i have agreed to the request because i believe it is important to adapt the legal standards for road vehicles to technical progress and also because i believe that the transport sector in particular is a crucial building block in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ sustainable framework conditions for stimulating economic growth and employment are imperative in europe.
there is one thing i would have especially liked to see more of in the report, and that is ecology and the environment.
of course, montenegro’s constitution states that it is an ecological state, and we appreciate that.
but nevertheless, more than 25% of europe’s biodiversity is in the western balkans, and the last remaining free—flowing rivers in europe.
so i really would appreciate it if the government of montenegro would stop reconsidering plans to build hydropower plants, affecting wild rivers, without having first implemented the sustainable hydropower guiding principles of the danube river protection convention.
the european council meeting on 19 and 20 march will focus on the energy union, relations with russia and the situation in ukraine.
the creation of an energy union is one of the priorities for the current period from the economic point of view.
the energy union's key pillars are to improve energy security, the eu's internal energy market, the increased deployment of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the aim is to reduce dependence on imports of oil and natural gas and to make energy more affordable in principle.
however, without the necessary structural reforms in the member states, the current monetary policy measures of the ecb will be ineffective and the effects of the low euro exchange rate and the low oil price will not be sustainable.
the european union's credibility is at stake when we talk about sustainability, job security and the fight against poverty.
we need sustainable social reforms here.
it contains concrete proposals on how to invest in social policy and strengthen the social dimension of the european semester, whether by developing the social criteria that need to be aligned with macroeconomic ones or by finally getting the europe 2020 objectives off the rails and finally giving priority to the objectives of poverty reduction, climate protection and gender equality.
we must also ensure that the social, environmental and consumer protection standards of the internal market cannot be undermined by trade or investment agreements.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because we need to support the rational management and optimum use of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
in theory, the objectives of the common fisheries policy are valid, namely to ensure that living aquatic resources are exploited under economically, ecologically and socially sustainable conditions, applying the precautionary principle and an ecosystem approach.
it fails to see that the problem is actually the economic environment, which is over-regulated and offers little incentive for the private sector to expand.
the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, including in the online environment, constitute serious violations of fundamental rights.
we must now speak with a united european voice against this retreat by russia, against the loss of freedom of expression and the media and against a climate of hatred and intolerance.
we must therefore do everything we can to restore statehood to libya, and we must not waste time in doing so.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal on sustainable sea bass fishing, as the measures to regulate and protect the conservation of biodiversity and the fisheries of this species are welcome.
our forests and forestry provide very good answers for an additional economic backbone and are at the same time the best guarantors of quality of life, sustainability, jobs and value creation.
the careful care and sustainable management by european forestry companies and over 16 million forest owners ensures that forests fulfil their ecological, economic and social functions.
the aim is to further strengthen forests and the forest-based sector in their social, economic and, above all, ecological role, to put the raw material wood as an important resource for europe at the forefront and, above all, to use it sustainably.
energy, environmental, climate and economic policies have a major impact on forest management.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment.
it is also important that there are no legal obligations to use cascades, but that there is a real resource efficiency for a sustainable use of wood, and this is also called for.
the criteria for sustainable forest management are also important, they must also be a quality label and are constantly targeted and set out for the sector as a whole.
it is important that there is no one-size-fits-all criteria catalogue, but that a strong focus is placed on regionality, taking into account, of course, the forest europe criteria, sustainable criteria as the basis for sustainable certification systems.
the so-called green jobs, which forestry provides with its raw material wood and which, in particular through sustainable forest management, make a particularly important contribution to environmentally-oriented production and also to education and training in this field, are also of particular importance for sustainable forest management as an economic factor and a source of employment.
our aim is to support new production possibilities and product ideas, especially in the areas of bioeconomy, environmental protection and climate change.
we have worked very well together on this, but the opinions of the committee on the environment and the committee on industry have also contributed greatly to the success of this forestry strategy and to the position of the european parliament.
we have had to realise that the climate balance of this so-called bio-sprite - agro-sprite - has not been what we expected, but that it has actually led to a change in land use not only within europe but also in third countries, and that we have put ourselves in danger of having what we decided in good faith - i say once - ten years ago, in the meantime, turn out to be the opposite.
i want to join the previous speaker who already said that we need to think about the period after 2020, because we simply need to take the right measures to boost co2 reduction, energy supply and so on.
fuel from algae or waste products, that's the future of biofuels.
we must also put all our efforts and energy into this to make it possible in the future.
i have to say, madam president, the devastating impact of our plastic consumption on the environment - and in particular on the world's oceans - has been known for a long time.
i therefore welcome the progress made today towards reducing one of the main causes of this pollution.
taxation and quotas are not really barriers to prevent plastic bags with a decomposition time of up to 500 years from entering our environment.
the vote will take place today, 28 april, at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec (17086/1/2014 - c8-0072/2015 - 2013/0224cod)) (rapporteur: josé inácio faria) (a8-0122/2015).
the share of renewable energy in europe needs to be further increased.
it is also important that there is now a commitment to advanced biofuels: without the support for the development of this new generation of fuel from algae and waste, there would be no future for biofuels!
this would negate the greenhouse gas emission savings from the use of biofuels.
algae or certain types of waste are expected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
this would negate the greenhouse gas emission savings from the use of biofuels.
i welcome this clear commitment to reduce plastic waste, which is still a long way off in some regions of europe.
so we have to get a handle on plastic waste!
‒ as the freedom party of austria, we are committed to comprehensive environmental protection.
‒ as the freedom party of austria, we are committed to comprehensive environmental protection.
‒ the reduction of co2 emissions from shipping is very welcome.
‒ i welcome the council's position on the monitoring of co2 emissions from maritime transport.
‒ i welcome the council's position on the monitoring of co2 emissions from maritime transport.
‒ as this report aims at a more sustainable management and fisheries of the baltic sea, it is necessary to vote in favour of this proposal.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting these stocks, as this will ensure the sustainable management of these stocks and the constant availability of fish and thus a constant livelihood for the fishermen.
fisheries and aquaculture must be environmentally and socially sustainable.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting these stocks, as this will ensure the sustainable management of these stocks and the constant availability of fish and thus a constant livelihood for the fishermen.
‒ the report is balanced and focuses on the sustainable economic use of european forests.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new eu forest strategy because it recognises the multifunctional role of forests from the economic, social and environmental viewpoint and thus supports the sector as a very important economic pillar in europe.
the weak majority for amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) – amendment 1 on loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services (361 in favour, 316 against and 11 abstentions), amendment 2 (329 in favour, 327 against and 29 abstentions) and amendment 3 on the greenhouse impacts of various uses of forest biomass for energy (340 in favour, 332 against and 14 abstentions) – also show that the report from the committee on agriculture and rural affairs (agri) was strongly supported throughout the plenary and new obstacles for the sector are very much questioned.
‒ i have agreed to this report because the proposals and improvements it contains are commendable and because forests and forestry not only provide quality of life, sustainability, jobs and added value, but also guarantee them.
‒ the proposals and improvements in the report are commendable: forests and forestry not only provide quality of life, sustainability, jobs and value creation, but also shape the face of my country and need to be promoted.
‒ i have agreed to this report because the proposals and improvements it contains are commendable and because forests and forestry not only provide quality of life, sustainability, jobs and added value, but also guarantee them.
the aim is to support specific projects that can provide local people with sustainable self-help.
the commission will also be providing eur 1 billion in advance for the development of targeted youth vocational training to combat the enormously high level of youth unemployment in many regions of europe in an effective and sustainable way.
it is important that eu funding is used to build structures that are sustainable for the future.
‒ i abstained on the report on the discharge to the european court of justice, because although i thought it contained some interesting ideas, it was also too uncritical about the waste that had been made and the potential for savings.
i can only support the motion for a resolution, however, because it puts the right emphasis on efficiency, the use of resources, transparency and even waste in connection with the organization of large events.
‒ as this resolution is very critical of the lack of efficiency, appropriateness, transparency and waste in the organisation of large-scale events, i have agreed to it.
‒ as this resolution is very critical of the lack of efficiency, appropriateness, transparency and waste in the organisation of large-scale events, i have agreed to it.
‒ i refused to vote in favour of this resolution because it gives a positive picture of the waste of money in the committee of the regions, but does not highlight the shortcomings.
‒ i refused to vote in favour of this resolution because it gives a positive picture of the waste of money in the committee of the regions, but does not highlight the shortcomings.
‒ a discharge for the energy regulator is not justified.
‒ this motion for a resolution clearly highlights the problems facing the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in its financial management.
‒ this motion for a resolution clearly highlights the problems facing the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in its financial management.
‒ the environment agency plays an important role in reporting on the state of the environment and the state of environmental protection, but it does not take into account regional aspects.
‒ i have agreed to discharge the agency as it makes a visible contribution to environmental protection in the european union.
‒ i abstained from the vote because, although the agency has a right to exist in terms of environmental protection, there are still doubts about the content of the discharge report which do not allow me to give my consent.
i consider the institution a waste of taxpayers' money and have refused to grant the institution relief.
‒ as the report is very critical of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, i voted in favour of this proposal.
‒ i agreed to the request because fusion energy could indeed be a way of producing energy that is emission-free and has no harmful environmental impact.
‒ as the report is very critical of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, i voted in favour of this proposal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to support the development of the community's energy sector.
‒ in my view, the report on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and the state of play of the sustainability pact makes viable demands on the code of conduct of companies that not only produce there but also have their market in europe.
‒ in my view, the report on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and the state of play of the sustainability pact makes viable demands on the code of conduct of companies that not only produce there but also have their market in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind, and that the energy sector is not left behind.
i therefore strongly oppose the call for a halt to the development of sustainable hydropower in paragraph 27, as it is neither objectively justified nor consistent with the eu's energy and environmental policy objectives.
as europeans, we cannot simultaneously push for the expansion of renewables and a reduction in energy imports, while at the same time demanding the halt of sustainable projects despite meeting the eu's strictest environmental requirements.
the eu commission is therefore urged to ensure that energy policy and environmental policy are compatible in practice.
the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to support the development of the energy sector in the eu.
this progress report cannot therefore be considered as a progress report on renewable energy and a sustainable future in the energy sector.
money alone is not enough, you can't eat it, but it's very much about thinking about new structures to help locally in different areas, for example, in health, we've seen this very effectively in ebola, and of course in education, energy and water.
investment in development would be a good investment in peace and stability, but unfortunately, funding often goes to waste.
green growth means sustainable growth, and i believe that the green sector, of course, especially at the international level, has a big market in the future.
in recent years, however, it has become clear that funding has often gone to waste.
i am in favour of sustainable and efficient improvement and of the targeted use of financial resources.
‒ today, with the adoption of the own-initiative report 'opportunities for sustainable growth for smes', we have laid the foundations for a forward-looking growth policy for small and medium-sized enterprises in europe.
for these companies in particular, issues such as resource conservation, circular economy and environmental sustainability can not only be cost-cutting factors, but also future-oriented business models.
i find this report extremely useful as it seeks to improve environmental performance for smes along the entire value chain and calls for the integration of environmentally sound growth of smes into all existing eu support programmes and instruments.
this is an opportunity for europe to strengthen our economy while promoting the sustainability we need to meet the climate and environmental goals we have set ourselves.
‒ promoting sustainable industry and green technologies in europe is a key contribution to achieving the target of 20% of industrial output in europe by 2020. more than 25% of european smes offer green technology products and services and more than 90% of eu companies are working to be as environmentally friendly as possible.
and what do you want to do to help create a climate of reconciliation in your country?
i do, however, support meaningful and sustainable measures to combat money laundering.
the proposal for a vote on this report therefore covers not only the control of the bacterium but also its research and is a contribution to the protection of the environment and the workplace.
sustainable security means the rule of law, human rights and the ability of all stakeholders to speak up.
this is not sustainable growth, and it is therefore critical to question this.
‒ in principle, a sustainable funding mechanism and common market research, industrial research, space research and development policies are important and useful.
in this situation, to focus on climate protection and to ignore the successful concept of a g8 summit, with the russians present, and to reduce it to a g7 summit, is a slippery slope.
in the course of today's debate on european energy security, far too little attention has been paid to the fact that an important first step was taken yesterday, namely the signing by 12 european energy ministers of a declaration on enhanced regional cooperation in the field of electricity markets: enhanced regional cooperation, enhanced european security of supply.
a second point that has not been mentioned today is that yesterday a study was published on behalf of the world energy council which shows that billions of dollars could be saved in terms of european security of supply, billions of dollars could be saved by reducing reserve capacity.
two dimensions that have been chosen quite rightly, namely the internet dimension, where you say: what can be done to increase the security of energy supply?
more self-generated energy.
the main focus here is on renewable energy, which is good.
the second point is the increase in energy efficiency and thus the reduction in demand.
it is important to bear in mind that energy efficiency also costs money.
the last point that has been raised today is that europe is investing 400 billion euros a year in energy purchases.
the second area is, of course, the use of renewable energy sources, and in this case, in particular, hydroelectric power.
the storage of hydropower is the basic prerequisite for more efficient use of renewable energy.
the european union must ensure the energy supply of its citizens.
it is therefore essential to diversify our energy sources in a sustainable and farsighted way.
we must build supply links with new countries and work intensively on our energy efficiency.
because, after all, the cheapest energy is the energy we don't use.
reducing our consumption will help us to save costs and reduce our energy imports.
the funds released could be invested in the development of renewable energies.
we could set a sustainable example and create a multitude of jobs - jobs that europe desperately needs.
another word on energy poverty: it cannot be that people in the eu cannot afford energy, and it cannot be that those affected are excluded from the supply in winter.
although i am in favour of climate action and the halting of climate change, i abstain from voting because of the failure of other countries to commit themselves.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
‒ the kyoto protocol should make a decisive contribution to global efforts to combat climate change.
i abstained because of the scientifically controversial view that man-made climate change can be stopped by reducing co2 emissions and the apparent lack of commitment from other non-eu countries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
‒ i am opposed to this report because it is very critical of russia, which is still one of europe's most important energy suppliers and without whose cooperation a robust energy security will not be possible.
the report also emphasizes the positive aspects of nuclear energy, so that i, as an austrian, must take a clear position against it.
‒ the austrian freedom party is clearly opposed to an energy union.
‒ i voted today in favour of the european energy security strategy because i believe it is essential that europe reduces its energy dependence on individual states in the future.
i am convinced that if europe is to achieve its climate goals, it must diversify its energy sources in the long term, increase energy efficiency measures and switch to sustainable energy sources.
this is precisely what this strategy for energy security has called for, and it is regrettable that the european parliament has not today spoken out in favour of a secure energy future for europe.
‒ the report, under the guise of energy efficiency, tells the european union how to build its house and how much energy it can consume.
a sensible agreement on energy use without regulations would be conceivable, but not in this form.
i have spoken against this report because it is moving towards the energy union and regulation.
‒ the austrian freedom party is clearly opposed to an energy union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
how could russia get the fifa games of 2018 after the sochi olympics that were fraught with corruption, environmental destruction and grave human rights violations in the country?
such cases occur in a climate of taboo and criminalization of abortion.
‒ creating growth and sustainable jobs is the primary objective and guiding principle of this report.
the growing inequality between countries is a problem which cannot be solved in a sustainable way by transfer payments but rather by structural reforms in the member states.
that means that we must also include agriculture, agricultural production and food production in the thinking process for this circular economy, as it has very large effects not only on the environment, on people and on public health, but also on animal welfare and livestock farming.
he also said that he was taking particular account of the input of the waste management industry, namely the industry in the waste management industry, and also taking precautions with regard to over-regulation.
namely, the waste of resources, the consumption of resources is increasing.
the signs of the times are therefore very clear: circular economy, sustainability, resource efficiency.
these are principles of the eco-social market economy that i advocate: it aims to combine ecological sustainability with economics, decouple our resource consumption from growth and establish a bioeconomy.
although we cannot change our economic model overnight, our aim must be to achieve a balance between the consumption of raw materials and the use of renewable resources.
in the end, there must be a balanced cooperation between the different sectors at all levels, so that the use of resources, waste management, sustainability and efficiency are seamlessly integrated and the circular economy does not remain a lofty goal but becomes a real principle!
this is an advantage for european industry, but unfortunately not for our environment.
‒ creating growth and sustainable jobs is the primary objective and guiding principle of this report.
these are the people who are ultimately most interested in the sustainable success of a company.
but there is also something positive that i would like to highlight... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the market stability reserve is a first step in reforming the european emissions trading system.
what is completely lacking in this report is a new regulation on carbon leakage measures, i.e.
a new regulation on the allocation of allowances, which are of the utmost importance, particularly for energy-intensive industry.
i think the key is not to send money, but to strengthen the concept of cooperation, to strengthen education, to enable energy locally - many things that will help us in the future.
for years and decades, these effects of radiation have been going on, and these effects have very clearly had effects on human health and on our environment.
on the one hand, the second part of the major ets reform the measures concerning the shifting of co2 emissions is still unclear, and on the other hand, the stance in the present report is not conducive to the industrial location of europe.
‒ trade in these allowances could have been an effective system for reducing greenhouse gases.
but at the moment it is just a system for restricting our industry, often in places which have already invested a great deal of money in environmental protection in recent years and decades.
‒ the scheme is worth supporting as it can help to improve the situation in developing countries in a sustainable way.
‒ i supported this scheme because its impact can help to improve the situation in developing countries in a sustainable way.
‒ i supported this report because its impact can help to improve the situation in developing countries in a sustainable way.
‒ i supported this scheme because its impact can help to improve the situation in developing countries in a sustainable way.
‒ although the report contains very good approaches, such as the design of a policy for sustainable food, some of the objectives are overlapping.
in the current economic climate in particular, this would create greater dynamism in the financing sector and thus growth and employment.
sustainability and the responsible use of natural resources are our guiding values, but we have not followed them in the case of the previous ban on trade in seal products.
biologists estimate that even for 500,000 animals, the annual hunt would be sustainable.
so i agree with greenpeace spokesman jon burgwald who said we need to significantly increase our efforts to make clear to eu consumers the differences between sustainable hunting by indigenous peoples and commercial hunting.
the second is whether he would consider it wise and sustainable, as has been done so far, to burn the blankets, the skins of these animals, to dispose of them and throw them away.
but if someone is fleeing from climate disasters that we have helped cause, from poverty that we have helped cause because we don't pay enough for raw materials, then you have to look at this very closely and see if these people can survive at home or not, or if they don't have a right to live with us.
the report clearly addresses the interaction between land and sea, noting that land and sea data must be considered as a whole and that sustainable management is of vital interest, of vital importance, and it discusses the role of new technologies, and here we come in particular to the issue of innovation and research.
‒ although i find the report to be in principle worth supporting with regard to the traditional creation of seal products, i abstain as the report does not sufficiently address the concerns of nature conservation and sustainable management of natural resources.
‒ the report is a good one, but it does not take sufficient account of the concerns of nature conservation and sustainable management of natural resources.
‒ the report is a good one, but it does not take sufficient account of the concerns of nature conservation and sustainable management of natural resources.
the proposals on the nexus between human rights and technology are forward-looking and offer great opportunities to improve the living conditions of people in third countries in a sustainable way.
the report provides a comprehensive overview of the specific challenges faced by family businesses and suggests solutions to improve the business environment.
they are often more long-term oriented than other companies and strongly rooted in their location and environment.
i think it is a waste of money and should therefore be rejected.
otherwise, it is a complete waste of money.
i think it is a waste of money and should therefore be rejected.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this does not increase the credibility of the budget nor ensure its sustainability.
and it's high time, because cities are engines of social, economic and sustainable development.
‒ having regard to the need for sustainable development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector and related industries and activities, and the importance of the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement, voted in favour of this report.
sustainable fisheries are an important step towards economic development.
‒ having regard to the need for sustainable development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector and related industries and activities, and the importance of the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement, voted in favour of this report.
‒ having regard to the need for sustainable development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector and related industries and activities, and the importance of the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement, voted in favour of this report.
sustainable fisheries are an important step towards economic development.
‒ having regard to the need for sustainable development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector and related industries and activities, and the importance of the eu-guinea-bissau fisheries agreement, voted in favour of this report.
sustainable fisheries are an important step towards economic development.
‒ i have agreed to the report on the fisheries partnership agreement between cape verde and the eu, as it places a very positive emphasis on environmental sustainability measures and does not neglect the socio-economic perspective.
‒ i have agreed to the report on the madagascar-eu fisheries partnership agreement, as it places a very positive emphasis on environmental sustainability measures, such as the protection of endangered species, and does not neglect the socioeconomic aspect, such as the recruitment of local seafarers, which in turn creates jobs in the region.
sustainable fisheries are an important step towards economic development, which is still strongly based on the fisheries sector.
‒ i have agreed to the report on the madagascar-eu fisheries partnership agreement, as it places a very positive emphasis on environmental sustainability measures, such as the protection of endangered species, and does not neglect the socioeconomic aspect, such as the recruitment of local seafarers, which in turn creates jobs in the region.
the negotiations of recent years have created a climate of trust and respect which can make it possible to include iran in a strategy for stabilizing the middle east, and in doing so, of course, to guarantee the right to life of every state in the region.
social, environmental and consumer protection standards must not be weakened under the pretext of cutting red tape.
‒ the report provides a good summary of the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport so far and adapts proposals for action to 2015. the transport sector is the only one that has increased its co2 emissions since 2009, a problem that needs to be addressed.
‒ even if the ambitious amendments to reduce co2 emissions are not adopted, this report still provides a comprehensive summary of the implementation of the 2011 white paper to date.
the report also adapts the white paper to the year 2015. the rapporteur recognises the need for action in the transport sector, as this is the only sector that has increased its co2 emissions since 2009. in addition to reducing noise in rail freight transport, the aim is to develop electric mobility, which plays a major role in the public transport system.
i voted in favour of this report because it is adapted to the year 2015. the rapporteur also recognises the need for action in the transport sector, as it is the only sector that has increased its co2 emissions since 2009.
in writing.
‒ even if the ambitious amendments to reduce co2 emissions are not adopted, this report still provides a comprehensive summary of the implementation of the 2011 white paper to date.
the report also adapts the white paper to the year 2015. the rapporteur recognises the need for action in the transport sector, as this is the only sector that has increased its co2 emissions since 2009. in addition to reducing noise in rail freight transport, the aim is to develop electric mobility, which plays a major role in the public transport system.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the united nations world summit on sustainable development (25 to 27 september 2015) and on the development aspects of the cop 21 paris climate change follow-up conference (2015/2745 ((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, combating climate change is one of the key objectives in the field of sustainability and also one of the key objectives in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
the binding commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 40% by 2030 is a leading approach.
in total, only 26 countries submitted national contributions to climate change mitigation for cop 21. over 140 countries have not yet submitted any contributions at all, including many developing countries and many emerging countries with very high pollution potential, such as turkey, india, brazil and indonesia.
if there's $100 billion a year of funding until 2020, wouldn't it be coherent to say that the allocation of financial resources specifically to the poorest countries in the area of climate change is linked to those countries also delivering binding plans on how to eliminate climate change?
i would like to wait for the legislative implementation to see whether this summer package will be a milestone in the implementation of the energy union, as you have said today.
the energy labelling system is being reorganised.
second point of the package: if energy becomes cheaper and people consume less energy, that is a positive thing.
new energy market design yes, we need this for a reorganization of the electricity market.
in austria alone, my home country, we have studies which estimate that 60,000 jobs will be lost in energy-intensive industries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the damage is also environmental, as we have heard many times today.
but this has direct effects on the environment, and it has direct effects on the consumer, namely on the consumer's wallet.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the effects of the crisis.
i have to say, madam president, since the emissions scandal became public, europe's largest carmaker, the world's leading automobile manufacturer, has been hit with lawsuits, fines and damages in the billions.
as regards the emissions tests, differences between laboratory results and values obtained in real life tests, i.e.
the automotive industry must adopt techniques that effectively reduce emissions.
the manipulated emissions figures at the car manufacturer volkswagen are an environmental and economic scandal.
we also need to have road emissions measurements instead of laboratory tricks, and the reforms already under way in fuel consumption testing and emissions measurements must be accelerated.
the vote will take place on wednesday 7 october 2015. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr andrzej grzyb, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants (com (2013) 0919 - c7-0003/2014 - 2013/0442 (cod)) (a8-0160/2015).
we are trying to achieve this by ensuring that europe has clean air, by preventing the 400 000 premature deaths caused by air pollution in europe every year, and by preventing cancer.
the vote will take place on wednesday 7 october 2015. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr giovanni la via, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to caseins and caseinates for human consumption and repealing council directive 83/417/eec (com (2014) 0174 - c7-0105/2014 - 2014/0096 (cod)) (a8-0042/2015).
‒ a uniform regulation of emission limits for medium combustion plants (as is already the case for small and large combustion plants) is in itself sensible and desirable from the point of view of environmental protection.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
‒ a uniform regulation of emission limits for medium combustion plants (as is already the case for small and large combustion plants) is in itself sensible and desirable from the point of view of environmental protection.
despite all the denials, doubling the capacity of the north stream pipeline is a great opportunity for european energy security.
from a geopolitical point of view, this pipeline development provided a good opportunity to resume in-depth talks with russia, to normalize relations and to revive the european-russian partnership, in which russia has always been a reliable supplier of gas and europe a reliable customer in energy matters.
instead of continuing this cycle, europe would do well to pursue pragmatic and proven approaches to europe's energy security not with a consistent regularity against, but with russia.
‒ this resolution calls for the full adoption and proper application of existing eu environmental law and for the extractive industry to adhere to the bat principle.
the authors also regret that the commission has not yet submitted the report on the environmental liability directive.
the commission is also invited to propose a harmonised compulsory social security scheme and to draw up a legislative proposal on access to justice in environmental matters.
‒ this resolution is to be supported as it calls for the full adoption and proper application of existing eu environmental law.
the authors also regret that the commission has not yet submitted the report on the environmental liability directive.
the commission is also invited to propose a harmonised mandatory provision (by the end of 2016) and to prepare a legislative proposal on access to justice in environmental matters.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that protecting the environment means protecting the homeland.
the commission is also urged to finally present the legislative proposal on environmental inspections.
‒ this resolution is to be supported as it calls for the full adoption and proper application of existing eu environmental law.
the authors also regret that the commission has not yet submitted the report on the environmental liability directive.
the commission is also invited to propose a harmonised mandatory provision (by the end of 2016) and to prepare a legislative proposal on access to justice in environmental matters.
a global climate change agreement such as cop 21 should be binding on all parties and should have an enforcement mechanism.
similarly, such an agreement should have the necessary sanctions to ensure that all signatory countries, regardless of their size and exposure to climate change, also comply with the binding conditions.
while there was some initial good news on the way to cop 21, for example, over 80% of all countries have submitted their voluntary contributions and large us corporations such as procter & gamble and johnson & johnson have committed themselves to voluntary climate action.
this is although too few national contractors are actually achieving the 2°c target a first step, but sustainable emission reductions will not be possible without commitment and implementation assessments.
also, some large polluters have made proposals that are so dynamic in adapting to their countries' economic growth and whose reduction targets are so disconnected from their pollution rate that they hardly need to meet real climate action.
if we are talking about climate protection and want to introduce binding rules for this, then all parties should also adhere to them.
‒ it would be absolutely desirable, in the interests of the global climate, to conclude a binding agreement in paris, which would actually be ratified and respected by all signatories.
the us and china are also evading their responsibilities in these climate agreements, which only mean a reduction in the eu's competitiveness.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
at the same time, the waste of money that is also taking place here is being treated too uncritically.
this is not ultimately beneficial to the citizens of the union, but is at their expense and is therefore not sustainable.
‒ there is no consensus on this, although it is in principle a balanced resolution with some good proposals to make the emissions testing process more independent and transparent.
the environment must be protected because of the many illnesses and even deaths caused by air pollution each year.
the report also calls for a reduction of the total cost of air pollution by eur 40 billion by 2030.
in writing.
when it comes to saving energy and meeting environmental objectives, or when it comes to efficiently and carefully handling our raw materials, it is also important to rethink the entire process.
however, it should be noted that better legislation and better monitoring at local level through optimised measurement techniques are urgently needed in view of emissions.
emissions do not stop at national borders, which is why overseas countries and maritime and air transport must also be made to pay.
furthermore, individual countries should not be able to have flexibility in accounting for their emissions, as most member states will not achieve certain targets, in particular for nox emissions, within the specified time period.
‒ the fpo is committed to promoting the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and black seas at a level considered sustainable and with a low risk of stock collapse.
a derogation is contrary to the principle of sustainable fishing.
‒ i am committed to promoting the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of the living marine resources of the mediterranean and black seas, to a level considered sustainable and with a low risk of stock collapse.
measures to reduce greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions from agriculture could lead to a decline in eu production and thus threaten food security in the face of increased global demand for food.
this greenhouse gas is already effectively regulated by the burden-sharing decision.
this greenhouse gas is already effectively regulated by the burden-sharing decision.
overly stringent measures to reduce greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions from agriculture could lead to a decline in eu production and thus jeopardise food security in the face of increased global demand for food.
‒ the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec aims to tackle the transboundary problems of air pollution.
i am generally in favour of a more sustainable approach to our natural environment, including a reduction in air pollutants.
this greenhouse gas is already effectively regulated by the burden-sharing decision.
overly stringent measures to reduce greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions from agriculture could lead to a decline in eu production and thus jeopardise food security in the face of increased global demand for food.
‒ this report is worthy of support, as it makes a number of useful proposals for regional development, particularly in terms of environmental policy.
the report makes mostly sensible environmental policy proposals for the development of the region.
‒ the report on an eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea region calls for a sustainable management of the region's marine resources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the report makes mostly sensible environmental policy proposals for the development of the region.
europe 2020 is a strategy from 2010 that was designed to create sustainable, inclusive and smart growth.
in time for the interim review, an evaluation of the five key areas of employment, research and development, climate and energy, education and poverty reduction was carried out in the framework of a public consultation last year.
it's not so bad for research and development, but it's not so good for climate targets, greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
we have no advantage in the energy sector, we have high costs, and we have a whole host of expert reports and scientific studies, including from nine european universities, chronobiologists, medical professionals and professionals in every field, showing that there are enormous costs and risks to be feared.
but the health of the people and the waste of money are also part of the causa prima.
unfortunately, the report also addresses areas where the eu has no competence, such as the regret that recommendations on environmentally harmful subsidies, environmental tax reform and the promotion of renewable energy have been dropped from the country-specific recommendations.
unfortunately, the report also addresses areas where the eu has no competence, such as the regret that recommendations on environmentally harmful subsidies, environmental tax reform and the promotion of renewable energy have been dropped from the country-specific recommendations.
‒ interoperability is increasingly promoting the potential quality of public services and creating an environment of increased competition between businesses and greater satisfaction among citizens.
‒ interoperability is increasingly promoting the potential quality of public services and creating an environment of increased competition between businesses and greater satisfaction among citizens.
the european union has set itself the objective of being a leader in climate policy and climate action.
you know, it's the 40 percent reduction in greenhouse gases, at least 27 percent share of renewable energy, and also at least a 27 percent improvement in energy efficiency.
it is likely that up to 50% of renewable energy will be used for electricity generation, and that this will take account of the efforts towards the energy union, the current state of affairs that you are explaining to us.
in addition to a functioning internal energy market, we need regional cooperation.
you have already spoken today about 10% interconnectivity, cooperation between network operators, a reassessment of acer, the harmonisation of support schemes for the efficient development of renewable energy, the new role of end-users, which you also took into account in the summer package.
this brings me to the last important point, namely the security of europe's energy supply.
i spoke about the new deal for consumers, energy labelling is coming, but the new energy market design and capacity markets and, very importantly, the ets reform and here please proceed with caution.
we want to be a leader in climate policy, but we also want to remain the most competitive location in the world.
if europe does not commit itself to meeting the climate targets and makes binding commitments, then probably no one will.
this should lead us to link europe, as the largest donor of funds, for example in development cooperation, with the mandatory compliance and the mandatory specification of national action plans for climate protection.
we are always talking about sustainable energy supply, and among other things we are talking about the life cycle costs, for example of nuclear plants, but of course also of fossil plants.
written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr edouard martin, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry (2014/2211 (ini)) (a8-0309/2015) and the commission statement on anti-dumping measures and their impact on the eu steel industry (2015/2978 (rsp)).
let me start with the own-initiative report by mr martin on developing a sustainable european industry in base metals.
these include energy – including both energy supply and the design of the energy market – fair trade and climate policy, with a view to reducing emissions while taking competitiveness into account.
these policy areas are also among the commission’s top priorities and are included in our main initiatives like the energy union, the follow-up to the trade and investment strategy and fostering a stronger and high-performing industrial base.
the commission created a high-level group on energy-intensive industries to tackle challenges together with all the stakeholders and member states concerned.
this includes, in particular, promoting the modernisation of european industry, facilitating access to new markets, bringing about the completion of the energy union and using and modernising trade policy instruments.
one of the most important challenges in the near future will be the reform of the european emissions trading system, which we are currently discussing in parliament.
we are faced with two difficult tasks: on the one hand, combating climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy, and on the other, maintaining competitiveness on the world market and the viability of our industry.
first, the global climate summit in paris next week, which hopefully will finally lead to a breakthrough on an international level.
i therefore see great problems with a report like this, which contains both detailed proposals for reform of the ets and calls for alternative instruments such as carbon caps, although these are clearly not desired by industry in many cases.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector.
high energy and labour costs, an increasing shortage of skilled workers, a weak economic situation in europe and highly subsidised cheap chinese steel are threatening the production site in austria.
we know that the raw materials industry imports raw materials and that we import energy in europe, about 400 to 500 billion energy, about 200 billion raw materials.
the promises to also contribute to the climate funds now, just before paris?
in particular, there is an urgent need for action on non-renewable raw materials, such as petroleum or rare earths, packaging materials or products with a planned obsolescence that are difficult to recycle or recover.
there's less waste and there's a reduction in resources right from the start.
i would therefore like to thank the luxembourg presidency for showing this energy, even now - i do not want to say a last but certainly an effort - to try to get the member states who are now covered on board.
‒ the spö delegation voted against amendment 1 in the vote on the own-initiative report on sustainable urban mobility, as we believe that diesel can serve as an important bridge fuel until there is a real alternative to fossil fuels.
‒ the spö delegation voted against amendment 1 in the vote on the own-initiative report on sustainable urban mobility, as we believe that diesel can serve as an important bridge fuel until there is a real alternative to fossil fuels.
a new (sustainable) transport concept for major european cities is urgently needed.
a new (sustainable) transport concept for major european cities is urgently needed.
in your view, would it have been necessary to give greater attention to the eastern mediterranean in the eriksson report on the achievement of the 10% electricity interconnection target and to highlight this area in particular, particularly with a view to increasing diversification in the area of europe's energy security?
the paris agreement on climate change aims to bring global warming well below two degrees and to achieve greenhouse gasneutrality by 2050. the europeans have made a binding commitment to this, but many other countries do not.
the report on the energy union which we are discussing today is therefore of great importance because it is the mix of measures it sets out that will enable many member states to achieve or come close to achieving these reduction targets.
the main focus is on measures to reduce co2 emissions, increase the share of renewable energy in the energy mix and improve energy efficiency, primarily of buildings and transport, which is why the tran committee was involved.
the aim is to change the direction of energy policy: away from fossil fuels and nuclear energy, away from centralised market models and dirty generation technologies, towards a sustainable economy that conserves resources, towards more competition and a greater involvement of consumers.
by increasing energy supply - certainly, this has been mentioned today - by increasing diversification, energy diplomacy and cooperation in the field of electricity supply.
the report by mr eriksson today shows that this is possible through the development of energy infrastructure, in particular the expansion of the grid to increase interconnectivity by 10% by 2020, 15% by 2030, the further development of the networks and decentralised generation and new storage facilities, as well as more funds for research and development, innovation in the energy sector.
the strategic focus is on lowering energy prices, creating decentralised sources of supply, increasing energy security - reducing the risk of blackouts - and creating better funding for new technologies and green jobs.
our main concern must be to maintain the attractiveness and competitiveness of the site, in line with a healthy and sustainable climate policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
i have to say, madam president, the report on the energy union which is being discussed today includes a proposal to extend the powers of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, known as acer.
acer issued a non-binding recommendation in september this year on the separation of the german-austrian electricity price zone, notwithstanding the fact that such a separation would cause annual additional costs of eur 300 million and would therefore significantly increase the price of energy.
the commission notes that the electricity price band is a good example of the potential of electricity from renewable sources to be used in the union market.
‒ the report shows promise for ensuring the long-term conservation and optimum use of north-east atlantic fisheries resources, thereby creating sustainable environmental and social benefits.
‒ the report shows promise for ensuring the long-term conservation and optimum use of north-east atlantic fisheries resources, thereby creating sustainable environmental and social benefits.
‒ the report on a european energy union has many positive aspects which we welcome.
the amendments on binding energy and climate targets for 2030 and the rejection of any financial support for nuclear energy from eu funds are particularly welcome.
unfortunately, the report did not only express a clear rejection of the use of nuclear energy, but in some places it even referred to the expansion of nuclear energy.
‒ the report on a european energy union has many positive aspects which we welcome.
the amendments for binding energy and climate targets by 2030 and a rejection of any financial support for nuclear energy from eu funds are particularly welcome.
unfortunately, the report does not contain a clear rejection of the use of nuclear energy, and in some places it even refers to the further development of nuclear energy.
‒ the report on a european energy union has many positive aspects which we welcome.
the amendments on binding energy and climate targets for 2030 and the rejection of any financial support for nuclear energy from eu funds are particularly welcome.
unfortunately, the report did not only express a clear rejection of the use of nuclear energy, but in some places it even referred to the expansion of nuclear energy.
‒ many of the proposals are very welcome and offer great opportunities for energy producers and consumers, but there are some points with which i cannot agree.
‒ i believe that the approval of plans for a european energy union can only be achieved if there is a clear rejection of nuclear energy.
‒ i voted today in favour of the european parliament's own-initiative report on the energy union.
the report calls for a series of measures to help reduce europe's high energy costs, reduce its dependence on imported fossil fuels and further decarbonise the economy.
i particularly welcome the fact that my group's amendments on binding energy and climate targets for 2030 (40% co2 reduction, 30% renewable energy and 40% energy efficiency) have been adopted by the european parliament.
the draft resolution on the energy union concerns the voluntary joint negotiation of energy purchase contracts in third countries.
‒ the report on a european energy union has many positive aspects, which i welcome.
the amendments for binding energy and climate targets by 2030 and a rejection of any financial support for nuclear energy from eu funds are particularly welcome.
unfortunately, the spö members of the house do not find in the report a clear rejection of the use of nuclear energy, and in some places it even refers to the further development of nuclear energy.
‒ i believe that the approval of plans for a european energy union can only be achieved if there is a clear rejection of nuclear energy.
‒ the report recognises the importance that interconnectivity can bring to european energy markets.
‒ the report recognises the importance of interconnectivity of energy markets.
‒ the report recognises the importance of interconnectivity of energy markets.
‒ sustainable management of fish stocks is essential.
‒ sustainable management of fish stocks is essential.
technological developments in this area have made enormous progress, so that the implementation of national action plans would provide a boost to energy-efficient industry and research.
europe's binding ratification of the 2050 climate targets is only a first step if the rest of the world, which has only voluntarily committed to the agreement, is not also committed to it.
this is a major challenge for europe's competitiveness, because only those companies that are also making the most technological advances in climate protection and energy efficiency will be able to withstand international competition.
this is the only way to ensure that europe can sustain its leadership in climate policy.
the fsb will establish a climate change disclosure task force to create a new market for the transition to a low-carbon economy.
cop21 has opened a new chapter in the history of climate action: with the agreement of all 189 countries to the internationally binding paris agreement, we are on the right track from ambition by a few to action by all.
the global challenge of climate change shows that the international community can achieve world-changing things.
the great ambitions before cop 21 require just as great energy and commitment after cop 21. we are also sending a clear signal to business, investors and politicians that there is no way around climate action.
investments in technology, emission reduction and carbon neutrality have finally been given the international legal framework.
‒ i reject this report because it defines climate refugees, lgbti people and especially people with hiv as 'people in need of protection' and because it seeks to intervene in the humanitarian aid and administrative sectors of various member states by involving private funds.
‒ i reject this report because it defines climate refugees, lgbti people and especially people with hiv as 'people in need of protection' and because it seeks to intervene in the humanitarian aid and administrative sectors of various member states by involving private funds.
‒ i have today spoken out against the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, for which i was the shadow rapporteur of my group.
instead of demanding a new, hardly feasible system, we should focus on the forthcoming ets reform and create a business and industry-friendly system here that can reduce the cost to businesses without jeopardising our climate goals.
i would have agreed to the report because it does contain some points which could actually help the base metal industry in all member states to improve the conditions of competition while at the same time reducing the environmental burden.
mr president, as some have said before, dayton was good to end the war but it was not good to make a sustainable peace.
let me specify one of them: annex no 7. i am glad it made it in our common resolution in article 3, which ensures the safe and sustainable return of internally-displaced persons.