my gratitude goes, of course, to the fictitious rapporteurs who have courageously accompanied me throughout this second reading: elisabeth köstinger for the epp group, gilles pargneaux, julie girling, lynn boylan, bart staes and eleonora evi, not to mention, of course, giovanni la via, the chairman of our committee on the environment, public health and food safety - i think he is here - who has, with great energy, facilitated the negotiations throughout the procedure.
i would also like to thank all my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety who, at the end of december, gave their full support to the outcome of the trilogue: 42 votes in favour, 17 against.
i now come to the substance of this legislation, which aims to revise the 2001 directive on the deliberate release of gmos into the environment and the 2003 regulation on food and feed containing these notorious gmos.
i am thinking of agricultural policy, soil and environmental protection and the socioeconomic impact of the second phase.
(applause) i would like to thank
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
i think it has always been the case that in votes of this kind, we first table the agreement reached at second reading - my group will vote against it - and then the result of the vote in this case is tabled in its entirety before the committee on the environment.
the result in the committee on the environment is the result of a democratic vote which we cannot simply set aside.
since 2001, two gmos have been authorised, one of which is still in force, mon 810. the council of environment ministers has a large majority of member states - 19 of 28 with five abstentions at the last vote, 24 member states - who are absolutely not in favour.
we are applying to the fullest extent possible the precautionary principle, which is essential in such cases, so that applications for gmos must be subject to very strict screening so that there is no risk to public health or the environment.
the second objective is to strengthen cooperation between the union and são tomé and príncipe to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the são toméan fishing zone, in the interest of both parties.
this agreement, in coordination with other development support instruments such as the european development fund, should, in my view, promote a genuine sustainable development of são tomé and príncipe's fishing sector and related industries and activities, by increasing the added value that remains in the country as a result of the exploitation of its natural resources.
the latter will support the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and related industries and activities in são tomé and príncipe.
i believe that this agreement will help to consolidate cooperation between the eu and seychelles by establishing high-quality fisheries in terms of sustainability, transparency, control and surveillance of the respective fleets.
the agreement approved by the ep (paralled on 3 april 2014) provides for access to the 24-mile to 100-mile zone for 8 sliding-net tuna vessels and 2 seychelles-flagged refuelling vessels for a renewable period of six years.
the agreement also has an economic, commercial and financial component, aimed in particular at the progressive liberalisation of trade, the sustainable development of the region and investment.
this report will open the door to a revision of the transport white paper focusing on sustainable mobility.
the grounds for prohibition may, for example, be related to environmental criteria, land-use planning obligations or economic impact.
i therefore corrected my original vote because this new legislation is supposed to give the states the means to prevent the cultivation of gmos on their territory, but in fact gives biotechnology companies the power to negotiate with elected governments and excludes the main legal argument for banning these crops: the evidence of environmental damage.
you have mentioned some things about this but we would like to see some energy from the council to devote to the necessary tax harmonization, to put an end to the tax war that the member states are waging against each other.
the second category of challenges: environmental challenges.
the environment, mr tusk, is not an adjustment variable, it is not a subject we deal with when we have nothing else to do.
the environment is what allows you, me and all of us to live on this planet.
if our environment becomes uninhabitable, humanity will disappear and, in this connection, i am very concerned to see that the environment is no longer on the commission's agenda, is no longer on the council's agenda and, in the end, is a concern that is left for later.
there you have a boulevard in front of you with the energy union, which is more than a buying powerhouse to ensure the sustainability and security of our energy supply.
the energy union, mr tusk, must be the european union's instrument for its energy transition, a transition that puts renewable energy and energy efficiency at the heart of its strategy with a triple dividend.
first, strategic energy independence, which is an economic dividend because by leading the energy transition, we will be world leaders in transition technologies, and finally a climate dividend and an environmental dividend because we have helped solve this existential challenge for humanity.
i hope that as president of the european council you will be able to meet these three types of challenges: social, environmental and democratic.
i believe that there is no military solution to the present conflict and i fully support the geneva talks which call on all parties to the conflict to accept the freeze of military operations proposed by mr león, in order to create a favourable environment for an unconditional ceasefire.
i attach great importance to the provision in the resolution calling for the improvement of the union's energy security, its independence and its resilience to external pressures, in particular through the establishment of a european energy union.
the eu's assistance is not unconditional: to receive it, kiev must meet a series of reform criteria, whether in the budget, banking, energy or judicial system.
the commission has initially launched a number of concrete initiatives (digital single market, european energy union, migration policy, fair taxation, etc.)
we have to work together in this parliament and we cannot waste time.
well, i have one on which we may be able to reach a consensus fairly quickly - and perhaps the most important structural reform for the future, the transformation of our economy into a sustainable green economy.
there has already been an analysis - and i am looking at my colleague bas - of all the proposals that are there, and that is a whole package, and it shows that more than 600 billion of the questions are related to good initiatives for a low-carbon economy.
25% of the proposals concern coal, nuclear energy, etc., but we already have proposals for 600 billion, so actually twice what is available, which can fully invest in this sustainable economy.
the role we are going to play in parliament is to anchor that, to ensure that we are not just investing, but that we are investing in a meaningful, sustainable and forward-looking way.
- mr president, the paris climate change conference at the end of this year is expected to adopt a new global climate agreement for the post-2020 period.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change has indicated in its latest synthesis report that the target of 2°c and global emissions reduction of 40-70% compared to 2010 are needed by 2015, and that emission levels should be near zero or below in 2100. we have less than 10 months and we need to use this time efficiently.
the results of the lima climate change conference, and a sense of urgency expressed by world leaders at the un climate summit in september, provide a necessary impetus for the work this year.
the lima call for climate action, adopted in december, contains two main outcomes.
in october last year, eu leaders endorsed a target to reduce the eu’s domestic emissions by at least 40% in 2030 compared to 1990, in line with its long-term objective of reducing emissions by 80-95% by 2050. the strategic framework is now to be translated into an eu intended contribution.the presidency of the council is determined to ensure that the eu intended contribution is submitted to the secretariat of the un framework climate change conference within the first quarter of 2015. we expect other major economies to come forward promptly with their contributions as well.
it should provide a long-term vision of the need for transformation towards a lower-emission and climate-resilient economy and it should enable broad and effective participation.
moreover, in order to ensure an appropriate background for negotiations, we need to make sure that the eu’s efforts on emissions reduction and support for developing countries are adequately recognised.
the presidency of the council will also stimulate eu-internal political debate on climate change with a view to the paris conference.
the environmental council in march will be the first opportunity to discuss the eu’s expectations and strategy.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to have this opportunity to exchange views on the european union's plans and activities on climate action, in connection with the conclusion of a global climate agreement which we want to reach in just over ten months' time at the united nations summit in paris.
firstly, the decision to reiterate the need for all countries to submit their respective national contributions to reduce emissions by the end of march, known in english as intended nationally determined contributions.
this report should enable us to assess the progress we are collectively prepared to make to keep global warming below two degrees celsius.
the legal form of the future agreement, climate finance and the differentiation of national contributions to emission reductions are also very important issues that remain to be resolved.
in order to articulate clearly our vision of the objectives that the paris agreement must achieve, in the coming weeks i will be presenting to the college of commissioners a communication entitled 'the paris protocol, a blueprint for fighting climate change beyond 2020'.
this communication has two main objectives: firstly, to describe how we intend the paris protocol to be dynamic, transparent and legally binding and as such capable of responding to economic and geopolitical realities; and secondly, to translate the objectives of the european union's 2030 climate and energy strategy into our contribution to emission reductions, in line with the information transparency requirements agreed in lima.
the united states and china have committed to action, and together with the european union, we would account for almost half of the world's greenhouse gas emissions.
but all countries that can must submit their national contributions to reduce emissions this year, as we agreed in warsaw.
but, in parallel, and throughout 2015, we must mobilize our energies in the area of climate diplomacy, we must continue to engage with our partners and friends about our vision for the new agreement and encourage them to submit their national emissions reduction targets.
the commission is certainly committed to working to maintain the european union's leadership on climate action and, together with the vice-president of the commission, federica mogherini, we will work to raise awareness among all international actors during this year.
next week i will be in washington to meet with my counterparts from the state department, the energy department and the white house and on 4 february we will hold a meeting with chinese minister xie zhenhua and the secretary general of the united nations framework convention on climate change.
last week the vice-president and high representative and i presented a climate diplomacy plan to the foreign affairs council which was supported by the foreign ministers.
finally, i would like to say a few words about climate finance, an issue which is essential not only for the paris agreement but also for the credibility of the european union as an international actor.
in 2013, the european union and its member states contributed €9.5 billion in climate finance, but there is no doubt that the european union and its member states need to continue their efforts.
in addition to the climate negotiations we are also negotiating the post-2015 sustainable development goals.
on behalf of the ppe group i think we can say that the european union still has the most ambitious climate policy in the world: 40% reduction by 2030. i don't think anyone does it better.
on the one hand, as the commissioner said, we must pursue an ambitious climate policy, and on the other hand we must also pursue a strong economy.
i am referring to the ets reform with the market stability reform, so that industrial companies investing in sustainable technology are given full opportunities and are encouraged.
to ensure that we do not get into a situation where sustainable production moves out of europe to just across the border, outside the european union, where there is no ets system.
they must indeed have those guarantees, transitional measures must be provided to make a balanced transition so that there are also carbon leakage measures, and we can give guarantees to energy-intensive energy.
we've already had some talk about climate diplomacy.
energy efficiency must be the top priority of the juncker plan.
secondly, i believe and hope you agree that it is very important to take responsibility in the world for pollution.
in our country, many companies, steel companies, chemical companies, are among the top in the world in terms of energy efficiency.
that's not really sustainable.
we need to continue to focus on a comprehensive strategy of better skills matching, encouraging entrepreneurship among young people, creating quality internships, investing in a flexible labour market and, of course, investing in sustainable jobs.
in view of the economic growth opportunities for the coastal state of senegal resulting from the optimal use of available fish stocks in accordance with the principles of sustainable fisheries, i fully support the present eu-republic of senegal partnership agreement.
this is the new sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and senegal.
i voted in favour of this report, which is based on the principles of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, good governance, food security for the senegalese population and the development of the local fisheries sector.
i am very pleased that the european parliament has given its approval to the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal.
a new fisheries agreement is an opportunity to consolidate the sustainable fisheries policy and to support the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in senegal's fishing zones.
this agreement should contribute to reinvigorating cooperation between the european union and senegal with a view to promoting a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in senegal's fishing zones.
given the development prospects for the senegalese economy through better exploitation of existing fish stocks, in accordance with the principles of sustainable fishing and the best practices in the sector, i am the rapporteur who states that both parties will find their place in the conclusion of the new agreement and the new protocol.
a new fisheries agreement will help to ensure sustainable fisheries.
i very much welcome this resolution because we need a sustainable and future-oriented internet policy.
europe sets the standards for food safety, quality and sustainable production.
it also stressed that the post-cotonou discussions should be an opportunity to analyse in depth the failures and successes of the current agreement in terms of sustainable socioeconomic development in the acp countries.
it proactively continued to monitor political, economic and social developments in the acp countries with a view to promoting the development goals and respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms, including respect for fundamental social rights, democracy based on the rule of law and transparent and accountable governance, which are integral to sustainable development.
the protection of civilians in general and children, women and minorities in particular, the millions of refugees living in unsustainable conditions throughout the region, respect for international humanitarian law and human rights, the cessation of massacres in general and the establishment, as soon as possible, of a climate conducive to peace are all colossal challenges which the european union, the un and the international community must address together.
– mr president, let me start by saying how welcome it is for our political group to have you here in parliament today presenting the energy union plan.
it is now the place and time to put the patchwork of 28 different member states and different energy policies behind us, like in 1951 when we had the european coal and steel community which was the basis of the european union, of economic progress and peace.
today i very much hope that the european solar and wind community will transform our economy into a sustainable and carbon-free economy.
our group is very pleased with the emphasis you put on energy efficiency.
i was very pleased to see that you said not only that energy efficiency is important, but that you regard it as a source of energy.
we need to invest, and there will be no energy union if we are not able to invest in renewable energy efficiency in our infrastructure.
you can be assured that our group will put your – and our – priorities on the energy union at the centre of the discussion on the juncker plan.
we will make sure that there is a sustainable future and also secure our energy supply for our economy and for all our citizens.
let us therefore take the energy union and the juncker plan, not to invest in, or as a means to restart, the old economy, but as a means to start a new economy.
- mr president, first i would really like to thank you for today’s debate, but especially i would like to thank you for the previous consultations we had in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), and in many of the bilaterals where you give us very valuable advice on how the energy union should be constructed.
therefore, having listened to your comments, i can say that we very much have overlapping priorities when it comes to the energy union.
i think that there was overwhelming support for our key priorities like guaranteeing the security of supply, working much more on the completion of the internal energy market, putting the energy-efficiency-first principle into real use, continuing our decarbonisation efforts and being very focused in what we do in research and innovation in the field of energy.
of course we could, but i think, as you have read in our strategy, that we are taking the energy security issue to a higher level.
never before has the commission dared to push for much more transparency when it comes to long-term gas contracts, and never before have we been so clear that we need to diversify not only the routes but also the sources of our energy.
we have been trying to present it in the new holistic way, because we have linked it very much with other dimensions and we are very clear in stating that we do not have to import the energy we save.
it means we are increasing our energy security.
we are clearly describing how we are going to use it when we are discussing energy infrastructure projects and how we are going to link it with the funding for infrastructure projects in the future, and i think that we will see that in real life, this principle will be applied, and the commission will be the first to support its full implementation.
we cannot have an internal energy market without proper infrastructure, without proper interconnections.
i very much appreciate all of you who highlighted the issue of the energy poverty of vulnerable citizens in europe, and again i think that for the first time we have devoted such an important part of the energy union strategy to this problem.
we recognise that we have a problem with energy poverty, and we are also proposing how this should be tackled.
we should increase the competition on the internal energy market, because it should drive the prices down.
at the same time we have to have a special instrument which would help, via social means, the most vulnerable citizens to take care of the cost, because in the europe of the 21st century we should not have such a high percentage of citizens who cannot afford to pay their energy bills.
the commission will launch dynamic and robust governance for the energy union, for our climate action and, as i said, also for our infrastructural build-up, and of course parliament will be a key partner in this effort.
mr duncan was, apparently, reading one of the previous versions of the energy union communication, because in the final text i would say that this policy is very much focused: we are focusing on four very concrete areas of research and innovation.
we want to remain the world leader in the next generation of renewable technologies, including storage – how to store the energy which is produced by the renewable sources.
we want to help our cities to become smart, and we also want to focus our research on how to make our transport much more sustainable.
if you will allow me, i should like to conclude with some information on what the new agency for the coordination of energy regulators (acer) should do.
i think that when we are talking about completion of the internal energy market and about much more cross-border connection, it is very clear that this dimension of cross-border cooperation would be much more important than before.
in this case, with such strong ownership, i believe that we will succeed and we will see that the energy union is built at an appropriate pace and with appropriate enthusiasm and energy.
an efficient european single energy market where energy can move across borders as easily as goods or services, an energy union with less impact on the climate and which makes us more independent of supplies from russia: it is vital for europe.
it is also crucial for efficient investment in renewable energy.
but energy efficiency is also essential: energy savings in existing buildings should be made easier through smart financing.
and the co2 emissions from traffic must also be further reduced.
thirdly, the greek economy must be put on a sustainable development path.
i would say that we are in line with the commission's priorities: investment and energy transition - we have already spoken about this today.
imagine: greece could become a net energy exporter, especially to the rest of the union.
i believe that this is a very useful source of financial resources for the greek state and the greek economy, and that we must therefore give priority to investment, particularly european investment, in the energy transition in greece.
secondly, it does not take the horizontal approach as required by the seventh environmental action programme and the roadmap.
we have actually made a lot of progress in terms of real technical standards, more aerodynamic trucks, longer and heavier trucks that can be on the road, to bring a little bit of environmental friendliness and safety into the system.
investing in the energy transition - there is a lot of talk these days about the energy union - investing in education, research, innovation, the conditions for european competitiveness, investing in the restoration of our natural resources, the restoration of our social cohesion, is a matter of survival for our european union.
more broadly, europe needs to put in place a real, coordinated industrial policy focused on creating sustainable jobs in sectors of the future.
more broadly, europe needs to put in place a real, coordinated industrial policy focused on creating sustainable jobs in sectors of the future.
more broadly, europe needs to put in place a real, coordinated industrial policy focused on creating sustainable jobs in sectors of the future.
more broadly, europe needs to put in place a real, coordinated industrial policy focused on creating sustainable jobs in sectors of the future.
more broadly, europe needs to put in place a real, coordinated industrial policy focused on creating sustainable jobs in sectors of the future.
‒ i welcome the compromise because it not only makes trucks safer, but also makes an important contribution to environmental protection thanks to aerodynamic features.
‒ regulations should be introduced on the permissible dimensions and weights of road vehicles in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve road safety.
‒ the aim is to amend directive 96/53/ec to improve the aerodynamics of vehicles and their energy efficiency, while continuing to improve road safety.
‒ more security, less greenhouse gas emissions this is the newsletter that european trucks should soon be presenting following the european parliament's vote this morning approving amendments to european provisions on the design of heavy goods vehicles.
two things: trucks, buses and coaches produce about a quarter of the co2 emissions from road transport in the union and about 5% of the total greenhouse gas emissions and are often involved in serious traffic accidents, as today's news shows again.
for example, better aerodynamics would reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by 7 to 10 percent and rounder cabs would reduce dangerous blind spots.
the text adopted aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve road safety.
the updated directive aims to improve the safety of all road users and to achieve environmental gains by focusing on the energy efficiency of vehicles.
this is a "positive signal" for the fight against climate change.
the text is generally very concerned with the safety of road users and takes into account the preservation of the environment, with the promotion of alternative fuels and the aerodynamics of vehicles.
the road is still too important for the transport of goods in europe, but parliament is sending a positive signal today for the fight against climate change!
‒ the objective of this long-term investment fund (eltif) is to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union.
more broadly, europe needs to put in place a real, coordinated industrial policy focused on creating sustainable jobs in sectors of the future.
‒ competition policy plays an important role in strengthening the approach to the internal market and in addressing economic, social and environmental challenges in europe.
it is also important to emphasise that certain sectors are strategic and require an appropriate union policy: the digital single market, the energy sector, industry and transport sectors.
only if it is efficient and free can it serve as a model for the rest of the world and thus contribute to a global free economy as a model of fairness, sustainability and with a focus on smes, employment and innovation.
i have been personally engaged in working with the supervisory committee to make sure that we have the enabling environment for olaf and for the supervisory committee to function.
reporting waste and misuse of taxpayers' money damages the reputation of the european union and the image of politics in general.
we can make sure that criminal energy has less of a chance to develop without problems.
that is why i would like to focus on sustainable infrastructure and on improving human and medical resources on the ground.
what i see is a mess in the council, with mr orban making an energy deal with putin outside the energy union, and at the same time a spanish minister of foreign affairs going along with mr lavrov and saying that the sanctions are useless and not necessary.
i would also like to speak today, mr president, about the energy union, one of the three main subjects on the council agenda.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new energy policy and the many ambitions we must have in this area, energy independence - we spend 420 billion a year on energy purchases outside the european union, an amount which we could better spend in other ways - and of course energy security, including for our citizens.
in the previous council conclusions, attention was paid to the energy union, but no mention was made of energy efficiency, for example, which is actually one of the backbones of that plan, because energy efficiency brings all these challenges together.
if we want to meet our climate goals, we can do that by investing 40% in energy efficiency.
and it is for this reason that in the investment plan we are working on in parliament, i, as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, am calling for a great deal of attention to be paid to energy efficiency.
today, only 5% of the initiatives put forward by the member states are devoted to energy efficiency.
so i urge you to make energy efficiency a priority in the energy union.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
i am thinking in particular of taking into account qualitative, social and environmental criteria, including the definition of the most economically advantageous supply, which will make it possible to move towards inclusive growth.
investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility are all necessary components to create sustainable growth and jobs.
the commission is therefore making a very pertinent analysis of belgium, based on this framework of thinking, and is also pushing for debt reduction, an ambitious tax shift, the abolition of work, an urgent response to school dropouts and the greening of the economy, policy choices that should guarantee sustainable prosperity.
in order to lay the foundations for strong and, above all, sustainable growth, we must have the ambition to give the semester not only an economic but also a full-fledged social dimension.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
‒ we adopted yesterday this report which encourages the continuation of accession negotiations on the basis of the reforms implemented and the concrete results, 'in particular in the areas of the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption'.
the new agreement sets a clear overall objective of ensuring the biologically, socially, economically and environmentally sustainable use of marine biological resources.
the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation whose role is to promote the development, conservation, sound management and enhancement of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black seas.
the procedure to amend the text of the agreement establishing the gfcm was launched in 2013 following a performance review carried out in 2011. the main changes introduced are: a clearer explanation of the object of the agreement establishing the gfcm, in order to define what would be a sustainable use of marine biological resources from the biological, social, economic and environmental point of view; better definition of the functions of the gfcm, including the promotion of common fisheries management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of fishing zones with regulated access, and the collection and dissemination of data, as well as sanctions and dispute settlement mechanisms.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, taking into account the mutual interest in the development and good use of marine biological resources in the mediterranean and the black sea and convinced that the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological resources in the application area and the protection of the marine ecosystems that host these resources play a key role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development.
the europe 2020 strategy needs to be put back on track for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
however, efforts are still needed in many areas, including corruption, the environment, the independence of the judiciary and political stability.
we also called for the opening of negotiating chapters to take account of developments in the technical and political climate of relations between serbia and the european union.
the opening of negotiating chapters as soon as possible, taking into account developments in the technical and political climate of relations between serbia and the european union, is in the very dna of europe.
it is clear that the member states must make budgetary efforts, but these must not be made without continuing to make productive investments and without guaranteeing sustainable jobs.
this report focuses on several aspects, namely: - the consolidation of the governance of the internal market through growth-enhancing assessment criteria; - the need to use the 'internal market' pillar of the semester to link indicators to growth and job creation, particularly in the digital market; - the need to have an investment strategy with a more competitive single market; - the compatibility of trade and investment agreements with the key factors of the single market relating to social, environmental and consumer protection standards; - the fight against tax fraud and evasion and the improvement of tax coordination...
in writing.
it is also a question of promoting common policies to combat unemployment and creating sustainable growth potential in order to restore the cohesion of the union.
the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
europe 2020 is the union's strategy to boost sustainable growth and job creation, and the single market has a crucial role to play in this regard.
‒ it is our responsibility to protect and ensure a safe environment for children and their development, including on the internet, and in cooperation with all relevant levels of government in and beyond the european union.
president, boris nemtsov was one of the main bridge builders between russia and ukraine, one of the few politicians who openly and sharply criticized the authoritarian political climate in putin's russia.
for years, the putin regime has created a climate of distrust and hatred against dissidents.
‒ given the worrying state of bar stocks and their high economic value, it is essential that the european union takes measures to bring the stock population to a level that allows maximum sustainable yield.
such measures are necessary both for the biodiversity of our oceans and for the prosperity of our fishing industry.
‒ what prompted meps to discuss and vote on the sustainable operation of the bar on thursday?
the commission should propose a multiannual management plan for bluefin tuna in order to increase the stock population above levels that can achieve maximum sustainable yield.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to speak in particular about energy policy and also about investment policy.
i think you were a little short-sighted when you spoke about the energy union and the decisions on it.
i would like to congratulate you on the decisions you have taken on the energy union.
because the strength of the energy union under the inspired leadership of vice-president šefčovič lies in the overall approach.
not just energy security, not just climate - however important - not just energy poverty or the energy needs of our industry, but the overall approach.
we know, and the energy union says so, that we must move towards a low-carbon economy.
we must be careful, because there was a time when we, especially in europe, were at the forefront of new technology, renewable energy and even energy efficiency.
why don't we invest in that energy efficiency and that renewable energy?
because we have 28 different types of policies, with an energy mix here and an energy mix there, with no clear picture of where we need to go.
that is the power of the energy union and that is where you have to set priorities.
one of those priorities, which is again clearly stated in the energy union, is energy efficiency, because it is precisely this that completes the picture.
energy efficiency creates jobs, ensures we meet our climate goals and makes our industries the most energy efficient industries.
the energy union is one of the pillars underlying this, one of the frameworks that determines where investment should be made.
we agree with that, but we are also a little embarrassed by the european parliament's position, and mr grossetête has rightly said so: another pillar of the energy union is research and development.
we cannot say overnight that we are done with coal and eventually with gas, even though that is the ultimate objective if we are to take our climate responsibility.
you must ensure that you provide resources and know-how in eastern europe to make industry as energy-efficient as possible.
if we look at the proposals submitted in the pipeline of projects in the investment plan, we see almost no energy efficiency projects from eastern europe.
let us make energy-efficient businesses a top priority in eastern europe too!
on the energy union, i think ms van brempt is quite right that decisions on interconnection require a leading role for the commission.
if no decision is made by the member states to give a leading role to the commission to lead the negotiations about energy agreements and interconnections investments, we do not have a real energy union.
the european commission is right to want to relaunch this dialogue, which depends on the will of the social partners but also on the energy the commission will devote to defining a method to accompany them.
this aid is not unconditional: to receive it, kiev will have to meet a series of criteria for reforms in the budget, banking, energy or judicial systems.
it should be noted that the disbursement will be linked to the implementation by ukraine of structural reforms such as better management of public finances, anti-corruption measures, changes in the tax administration, reforms in the energy and financial sectors and measures to improve the business environment.
the commission also stressed that the eu would continue to support ukraine's efforts to achieve a sustainable development.
the eu's assistance is not unconditional: to receive it, kiev must meet a series of reform criteria, in the areas of budget, banking, energy and the judiciary.
indeed i think there is general agreement that there has been progress in bangladesh in important areas and the commission was very quick, through my predecessor, to liaise with the us, with the ilo, with individual countries and the bangladeshi government to try to put together this compact to see what we can do to prevent future tragedies, of course, but also to build sustainable development when it comes to labour rights, safe working conditions and a sustainable situation for the many women who work in this industry.
the communication that the commission is preparing for the autumn, in which we will outline our priorities for trade for the coming five years, will also play a role: sustainable value change, encouraging companies to exercise due diligence and to see what we have learned from the whole tragic bangladeshi experience, to put that in the future strategy as well.
so let us together do what we can to make sure that change is not temporary but really sustainable.
profit for the environment, therefore profit for the climate.
the producers now know where they stand and can plan investments that will ultimately benefit the production of advanced biofuel, renewable fuel.
finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that this reform also provides a first and important stimulus to electric driving, based on renewable sources of course.
i think we can conclude that what we are approving today is indeed a first important step in the right direction and also one of the pillars of that energy union which is so dear to all of us and to you, commissioner, and which we must achieve in the coming months and years.
they use only the inedible parts of the plants and agricultural waste.
unfortunately, given the disparities in europe - 4 plastic bags per consumer per year in finland, for example, compared to 400 in poland or portugal - this is probably reasonable but not sustainable, and i regret it.
look at the enormous damage being done to our marine environment and we all understand that the use of lightweight plastic bags needs to be limited.
we are therefore among the leaders, but there is still room for improvement and a european objective also offers advantages to those at the forefront, such as a clearly predictable legal framework, the creation of a level playing field and the protection and improvement of the living environment for all eu citizens.
the enormous plastic mountain presents us with environmental challenges that require a broad-based approach.
the forthcoming review of the waste package provides an opportunity to take further structural measures to make the transition to a more resource-efficient circular economy.
i welcome the agreement reached as a good, balanced and feasible first step towards reducing co2 emissions from maritime transport.
international maritime transport is the last of the mohicans, as it is the only mode of transport not yet included in the eu's commitment and objectives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the sector accounts for 4% of total eu greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ the purpose of the stcw-f convention is to ensure that personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified (and hold an official certificate attesting to this) and fit for work (after medical examination) and, therefore, to minimise the risks to the safety of persons and/or property at sea, or to the marine environment, during operations on board vessels.
‒ the present proposal to amend directives 98/70/ec and 2009/28/ec aims at the switch to low greenhouse gas biofuels.
conventional biofuels lead to indirect land-use change, which means that, although biofuel crops are grown sustainably, they displace food crops and lead to increased greenhouse gas emissions.
the environmental benefits sought are thus negated.
for this reason, i welcome the shift from conventional biofuels to those that take indirect land use change into account and hope that this will also create a long-term perspective for sustainable biofuels.
‒ co2 emissions from transport play an important role in global warming.
the renewable energy directive sets binding targets to be achieved by 2020 to achieve a 10% share of energy from renewable sources in transport.
directive 98/70/ec provides for a 6% reduction in the greenhouse gas intensity of fuels used in road transport by 2020. to achieve these objectives, it is essential to increase the share of advanced biofuels and to limit the contribution of traditional biofuels in the composition of diesel and petrol in the european union.
advanced biofuels can significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions even when indirect land-use change emissions are taken into account.
it is therefore to achieve these objectives and to preserve the environment that i voted in favour of this text.
– i voted in favour of the final compromise package on the fuel quality directive and renewable energy directive as i believe that the eu has shown a clear vision on its approach to biofuels and the related indirect land use change.
although i voted in favour, i nevertheless believe that this compromise package fails to address some opportunities for a further use of industrial waste streams as renewable fuels.
i firmly believe that firms that can reuse carbon, through the addition of bacteria to its industrial waste streams (co2 bio-fermentation of industrial waste streams), should be considered (at least) twice their energy content in annex ix.
this should not be conditional upon being renewable according to article 2a, but should rather be based on respecting the sustainability criteria (60% ghg reduction vis-à-vis fossil fuels).
biofuels were hailed as the solution to renewable energy in transport 10 years ago, but they have proved to be unsatisfactory and sometimes even problematic.
for example, more land is being used to produce biofuels from agricultural crops, resulting in deforestation, increased co2 emissions and rising food prices, especially in developing countries.
i welcome the adoption of the directive amending the fuel quality and renewable energy directives, which limits the contribution of conventional biofuels, improves the greenhouse gas performance of biofuel production processes by raising the minimum greenhouse gas emission reduction levels for new installations and encourages greater market penetration of so-called 'advanced' biofuels.
it is essential to promote sustainable biofuels, i.e.
produced from waste or plant residues, so that their production does not harm the food needs of the population and livestock.
the new legislation states that first generation biofuels (mainly rapeseed or palm oil) should not account for more than 7% of final energy consumption in transport by 2020. these agrofuels were promising a decade ago, but they have the major disadvantage of putting food prices under pressure.
the rest has been done by the timidity of the member states, which have not been able to unlock the investments in the biofuels of the future, produced from waste or innovative technologies based on micro-organisms.
‒ yesterday, the european parliament formally endorsed the agreement reached in the trilogue on the draft legislation to promote more sustainable biofuels that protect the interests of developing countries and the climate.
the draft directive aims to cap the use of agrofuels in transport by 2020, to accelerate the production of advanced biofuels such as algae and waste, which do not compete with food production, and to take into account the iluc factor (for 'indirect land-use change') in order to account for greenhouse gas emissions related to the production of these first generation agrofuels.
the main thrust of the text adopted is to limit the use of first generation biofuels to 7% of final energy consumption in transport by 2020. fuel suppliers shall report to the member states and the commission on the estimated level of greenhouse gas emissions related to indirect land-use change.
the commission will then publish the data on these iluc-related emissions.
by the end of 2017, the commission should assess the possibility of including iluc factors in the sustainability criteria for biofuels.
they use only the inedible parts of the plants and agricultural waste.
we must promote biofuels produced from waste or plant residues which do not compete with human or animal food.
the future of the planet's food, environment and society is at stake.
‒ directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste fails to regulate the use of lightweight plastic bags (wall thickness below 50 microns).
however, these lightweight plastic carrier bags contribute significantly to the union-wide waste burden, as they are not particularly suitable for reuse due to their lightweight material and therefore usually end up in the waste immediately.
in order to ensure a uniform and high standard throughout the eu and to reduce the waste burden across the union, i welcome the amendments which have been tabled.
‒ the high consumption of plastic bags less than 50 microns thick has a major impact on the environment within the european union.
too many plastic bags end up in nature and have a detrimental impact on the ecosystem.
plastic bags are therefore responsible for a considerable amount of wild waste.
to reduce pollution and protect the environment, it is therefore necessary for member states to adopt economic measures and marketing restrictions aimed at drastically reducing the use of plastic bags.
a rough 8 million plastic bags end up in our environment, both on land and at sea.
we must become more conscious of our impact on the environment in general.
‒ plastic bags are a major source of pollution worldwide and a serious threat to wildlife (in the north sea, 94% of birds have already ingested plastic).
the european parliament has launched a new campaign to reduce this consumption and thus better protect the environment.
states will either have to reduce the average annual consumption of plastic bags to 90 lightweight bags per capita by the end of 2019 or ensure that no more lightweight plastic bags are given to customers for free by 2018. by adopting this report, the european union is reinforcing its commitment to better protect the environment for the benefit of all.
‒ every year, eight billion plastic bags end up as waste in the eu environment, including in the seas, where plastic is often absorbed by animals (94% of north sea birds have plastic in their stomachs).
the european union had to react to this invasion of plastic bags that pollute our environment.
but this solution is not sustainable and the member states which are lagging behind, and which have forced this compromise downwards from the original commission proposal, must achieve better results.
this consumption is expected to increase... since 2010, more than 8 billion plastic bags have become waste in the eu.
the vast majority of bags used in the union are less reusable than thicker models and become waste more quickly.
they are also more likely to seriously pollute the environment and aquatic ecosystems.
member states will be able to choose between taking measures to reduce the average annual consumption of non-biodegradable plastic bags to 90 lightweight bags per capita by the end of 2019 and to 40 by the end of 2025, or to ensure that no lightweight plastic bags are given to customers free of charge by the end of 2018. the european commission will also have to assess the environmental impact of oxobiodegradable plastics and propose appropriate measures to deal with this phenomenon.
this is a victory for the environment over the blind deregulation drive of the european commission.
it also shows how green politicians, like rapporteur margrete auken, are really thinking about reducing the burden on our environment through european legislation.
‒ the fact that each european uses 176 plastic bags per year, with little or no reuse, gives an idea of the scale of the environmental consequences.
thin plastic bags are a real environmental disaster.
‒ some 8 billion plastic bags end up in the eu's environment every year.
‒ maritime transport is the only form of transport for which the eu has not yet adopted rules to reduce greenhouse gases.
the present proposal for a directive provides for the establishment of a system for monitoring, reporting and auditing emissions.
i welcome the new directive, especially since maritime transport contributes at least 6% to the union's total emissions of greenhouse gases.
‒ the union has committed itself to reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990 levels.
the commission estimates that shipping was responsible for 180 mt of co2 emissions in 2010 and these are expected to increase.
it is therefore essential to be able to reduce co2 emissions from maritime transport.
however, the precise greenhouse gas emissions from shipping are not yet known.
therefore, before considering a gradual reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping, it is necessary to put in place a system for monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) of greenhouse gas emissions from ships.
this mrv system represents the first phase of a programme to reduce co2 emissions from shipping.
it is therefore in the interests of combating global warming and protecting the environment that i voted in favour.
i believe that this monitoring system is necessary to improve information and to encourage reductions in emissions and fuel consumption.
– i voted in favour of the opinion by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) as shipping is an important means of transport and, although an environmentally friendly way, it is also a large and growing source of greenhouse gas emissions.
i believe this is a good first step towards cutting emissions and reaching our europe 2020 strategy and the kyoto commitment period (2013-2020).
‒ i supported the report by my portuguese colleague, josé inácio faria, on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector.
surprisingly, commercial shipping is the only major mode of transport not yet covered by the union's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
without action, marine ghg emissions are expected to more than double by 2050. this is why the legislation adopted this afternoon is so important, as it is intended to reverse this negative trend and also to ensure a higher level of transparency in the shipping sector.
in fact, from 2018, owners of large ships (above a threshold of 5 000 gross tonnes), regardless of their flag, will have to monitor co2 emissions and other climate-related information when travelling within the union and when entering and leaving european territorial waters.
‒ the european parliament voted today and i welcome this new provisions requiring ship owners using eu ports to report their co2 emissions every year.
this is a first step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions from a sector - shipping - that is still excluded from eu measures to reduce carbon emissions.
the new rules establish a european-wide system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector, to improve information on ship efficiency and emissions, and to encourage emission reductions and fuel consumption.
it is not easy to say why it took so long to legislate in this sector, which is the only one that did not yet have legislation, when it represents 4% of transport emissions.
this plan will take into account biological interactions, environmental conditions and will be subject to scientific monitoring.
this should allow for a balanced and sustainable exploitation of stocks.
the multiannual management and the fact that these three interacting species will now be managed by a single plan should make the baltic sea fisheries more sustainable by increasing predictability, which i welcome.
the plan should allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks, in particular cod, herring and sprat, which account for more than 94% of the catches made in the baltic sea, as well as fishing opportunities and thus resources for fishermen.
this long-awaited plan should allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of stocks and provide fishermen with livelihoods.
at the same time, it should ensure management based on the most up-to-date scientific advice on the state of the stocks concerned, the interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries.
the plan should allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and stable fishing opportunities and thus resources for fishermen.
at the same time, it should ensure management based on the latest scientific advice as regards the state of the stocks concerned, the interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries.
the agreement was concluded in 1997 for a period of 10 years and has been automatically renewed for a period of one year since 2007. this includes, among others, arrangements in areas such as trade, education, energy and political dialogue.
the european parliament intends today, by its ambitious vote, to give new colour and energy to a process which is running out of breath.
‒ sustainable forest management and a functioning and balanced ecosystem guarantee quality of life, sustainability, jobs and sustainable value for ourselves and future generations.
in a context where an increasing number of policies (energy, environment, climate, etc.)
‒ we need a new common forestry strategy (the current one has been in place since 1998) focused on sustainable management, promoting the use of raw forest products and increasing the competitiveness of the forestry industry.
a new strategy is needed to address cross-border challenges such as forest fires, climate change, natural disasters, but also to strengthen forest industries and improve the efficient use of raw materials such as wood and wood products.
in addition, as energy demand increases, forests are expected to play a greater role in the eu's future energy mix.
wood, as a sustainable raw material, is an important resource in europe, and 40% of the european territory is covered by forests.
this will include promoting the sustainable use of wood and other forest materials to create jobs and stimulate growth, as well as improving forest management and exploitation, all while reducing red tape.
the effects on man are many and vital to his survival: jobs, climate, environment, health, food, consumer goods, etc.
by adopting this new strategy, the european parliament fully reaffirms its policy of sustainable forest management to ensure their long-term conservation for future generations.
the text focuses in particular on the sustainable management of forests and ecosystem services, on how to meet the growing demand for renewable energy and raw materials used in products, on the challenges facing the forest industry and on managing transnational threats to forests, such as forest fires and forest pests.
it is essential for the proper implementation of the strategy to have a specific long-term action plan that emphasises the importance of mobilising and using sustainable forest-based wood to create added value and jobs, while providing means to strengthen private forestry and support organised forest ownership structures.
in fact, the creation of the emi amounts to a waste of taxpayers' money.
we will need to continue to work towards a comprehensive long-term strategy with better matching of skills to demand, more entrepreneurship among young people, quality traineeships, a more flexible labour market and, of course, sustainable jobs.
for example, there are several opportunities for successful renewable energy production in north africa.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
research, innovation, employment and training are also key areas for a sustainable europe and will now be supported in a simpler and more direct way by the member states.
‒ it is no surprise that meps approved the 2013 accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
‒ i voted in favour of this report and thus gave the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) discharge for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2013 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular.
the report notes, in the light of the court's report, that the agency has awarded grants under five major programmes to consortia of european environmental institutions and bodies, un organisations and national environmental organisations.
‒ copenhagen, which is best known for europe's largest offshore wind farm, its courageous cartoonists fighting for freedom of expression and its little mermaid, which is to the danish capital what manneken-pis is to brussels, is also home to a lesser-known but equally important organisation: the european environment agency.
it is one of the most effective european agencies, making good use of its budget of eur 49 270 722 because, in addition to its annual report on the environment in europe, which gives the state of play of european biodiversity, it often acts in advance to alert european decision-makers and public opinion to the upheavals taking place in environmental health.
i therefore, like the majority of my colleagues on the committee on the environment, encourage the authority to continue to strengthen its policy on the management and prevention of conflicts of interest, in order to preserve independence and transparency in all areas of its work.
it is also important to note, as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety did in its opinion, the essential role played by the agency in protecting and promoting public and animal health.
‒ i voted in favour of postponing the decision on the discharge to the executive director of the iter and fusion energy development company for the financial year 2013. i regret that there is a significant risk of an increase in the amount of the joint undertaking's contribution to the construction phase of the iter project.
for those who would like to read the series of remarks made by meps on the day-to-day management of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy, i can only recommend that you look at the report in question.
eu spending on nuclear research and development is 4.5 times the budget for renewable energy and energy saving.
iter is the symbol for nuclear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
we are particularly concerned that the eppo would be an unnecessary duplication of anti-fraud instruments and thus a waste of taxpayers' money.
that is why the text calls - if i may quote a few elements - for priority to be given to sustainable investments and those which are fully involved in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i think we have a triple win: we save the planet while reducing our energy bill, and that's obviously good for jobs.
the european parliament's report on the annual report of the european investment bank puts the emphasis where it should be, on investment, smes, sustainable energy policy and climate policy.
we can only move forward if we find a good balance between sustainable growth, strengthening competitiveness and attracting additional financial investment.
the ecosystem of which the eib is a part is subject to constant change and renewal.
the emphasis on climate and sustainable energy policy also seems to us to be good points.
the eib has also been active in the development of the european investment fund (eif) and the european investment bank (eib) in the field of the environment.
firstly, the fight against waste: let us remember that in europe it amounts to 179 kilos per capita per year, or 90 million tonnes of waste per year.
what we need to do in the future to feed everyone, before we think about producing more, is to fight against waste.
yet, no one knows the calorie count, the composition, or the energy value of what they drink.
parliament also welcomed the eu's sustainability pact, which aims to improve working conditions and the rights of bangladeshi workers.
under the sustainability pact, the eu, the international labour organisation and the government of bangladesh have increased the number of building inspections and raised minimum wages.
the resolution calls for further action to ensure the sustainable protection of workers' rights in the international textile production chain.
freedom of association is crucial to preventing tragedies and to creating sustainable work with living wages and dignified work in the textile production chain.
since the tragedy, thanks to the bangladesh sustainability pact and the active support of the eu and the ilo, some changes have been made: agreements to improve factory inspections and standards for electrical and fire safety, an increase in the minimum wage, the adoption of a law on the formation of trade unions, etc.
to give a better future to textile production in bangladesh, the eu initiative "sustainability pact bangladesh" was launched with the support of the ilo.
the sustainability pact aims to ensure that the situation is monitored in the longer term.
safe working conditions, a fair price, a decent wage and the guarantee of freedom of association for workers are essential factors in achieving sustainable economic growth in bangladesh.
by voting this afternoon, he wants to encourage the changes that were planned in the 2013 sustainable development pact agreement.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the directive will also be extended to cover the use of energy from renewable sources, such as wind, solar, wind energy, wind turbines, and wind turbines.
parliament also expressed concern at the continuing political division in the country and called for a climate of confidence to be established.
as the socialist group's representative on this issue, i have insisted that the eib should make sustainable investments; i think about buildings that use little energy.
i voted in favour of the report because it had the right focus in the current environment: the focus on smes, investments and governance is crucial for sustainable economic growth.
the report also includes a strong section on transparency and financial intermediation and it correctly reflects the situation around climate and energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which considers that all possible resources of the member states and the european union, including those of the eib, must be effectively mobilised without delay to support public and private investment, boost competitiveness, restore sustainable and inclusive economic growth and promote the creation of quality jobs and infrastructure, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and taking into account that the eib has a mission to support social cohesion and is able to provide meaningful support to member states facing difficulties in the current difficult socio-economic context.
the report we have adopted today rightly expresses concern about some of the projects supported by the eib, both in terms of their added value for the economy and in terms of environmental sustainability.
instead of investing in controversial fossil fuel projects (such as the castor gas storage facility in catalonia) or road construction (such as the 'passante di mestre' motorway in italy, where there was a suspicion of mafia interference), the eib should go all in to supporting small-scale sustainable and energy-efficient projects, and stop financing non-renewable forms of energy.
we also ask that the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), in which the eib will play a major role, invest in those areas where the benefits for employment are greatest, taking into account strict social and environmental standards.
however, the improvement of the eib's financial instruments does not replace the economic and structural policy reforms implemented at national level to foster sustainable growth and job creation.
‒ recognising that the theme of the 2015 world expo in milan - feeding the planet, energy for life - provides an opportunity to address global food challenges and imbalances, including food waste, undernutrition, obesity and global warming, parliament calls on the commission and the member states to take action to ensure the right to adequate, healthy, sustainable and reliable food.
the expo not only offers numerous economic opportunities but, through its chosen themes, can also be a catalyst for addressing various global challenges, in particular the demand for healthy, sustainable and quality food.
the whole food chain is characterised by flemish expertise: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of foodstuffs, from production, land use and food safety to food surpluses and packaging to waste treatment.
it also links up with a theme we are currently discussing in the eu, namely the transition to a circular economy that is more efficient in the use of raw materials and treats waste as a material.
under the slogan 'feeding the planet, energy for life', the 2015 world expo focuses on one of the most important global issues to avoid growing imbalances on the planet.
this is why, during the six months of this international event, which brings together 145 countries and 53 national pavilions, the aim is to inform and raise awareness among industrial players, citizens and the media on the problems of sustainable consumption, nutritional diversity and food waste.
‒ solving the problem of food security requires strong and viable agricultural and fisheries sectors throughout the european union, a prosperous and diversified rural economy, a clean environment, and family farms supported by a dynamic, fairer, internationally sustainable and properly funded common agricultural policy.
parliament stressed the need to implement a sustainable and adequately funded cfp (common fisheries policy), to ensure consistency between the union's trade and fisheries policies and to step up the fight against illegal fishing.
i would first of all like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and also the secretariat of the committee on industry, research and energy for their good cooperation.
green growth is about seizing the opportunities that help make the transition to a more sustainable economy.
it 's actually very simple: if we all continue to consume as we do today, we'll need as much as 40 percent more water and energy in the next 20 years.
we need to make the shift to a more sustainable, more efficient, but also low-carbon economy.
the global market for environmental goods and services is currently worth about eur 1 000 billion a year.
europe is showing leadership in recycling and energy efficiency, and the challenge is to see how we can strengthen and maintain that leadership.
however, domestic resource mobilization is more predictable and more sustainable than foreign aid, which cannot cover all investment needs in developing countries.
sustainable development will only be possible if it is adequately funded and if it is based on the ability of developing countries to finance themselves access to basic public services such as improved health care.
of course, other sources of funding, including private ones, will also be needed to achieve the new sustainable development goals.
‒ 2015 is a pivotal year for global development aid action with the adoption of the sustainable development goals and an agreement on global climate action.
it urges the european union to assert its leading political role throughout the preparations for a sustainable development framework, a renewed agreement on financing for development and other implementing arrangements, in accordance with the commitments and values enshrined in its founding treaties.
‒ patient safety and the fight against drug resistance, in particular antimicrobial resistance, are certainly not unknown topics to those who manage health systems, or to those who have frequented the chambers of the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety in recent years.
green growth sectors have economic and environmental benefits for smes in the eu and are set to grow significantly in the coming years.
the starting idea is that economic growth and environmental sustainability can go hand in hand.
making the european economy more sustainable is essential.
at a time when the european economy is in need of a revival, it is more vital than ever that it move without delay towards a more profitable and sustainable model.
‒ green growth sectors have tremendous economic and environmental benefits for smes in the european union and are set to grow significantly in the coming years.
the starting idea is that economic growth and environmental sustainability can go hand in hand.
the deal that he made in the middle of the crisis in ukraine, making an energy deal with mr putin, was the second provocation.
in view of the danger of cadmium to human health and the damage it causes to the environment and in the light of technological developments, the use of cadmium for screen lighting should be banned as soon as possible.
by placing so-called cadmium quantum dots in tvs, they become more energy efficient.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
six out of ten europeans know a disabled person in their immediate environment or in their relations.
in any case, the commission should intensify scientific research into efficient and sustainable pesticides and the commission and the member states should choose the best approach for a rapid economic and landscape recovery of the affected regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the bacterium could also cause unprecedented losses and severe economic, environmental and social consequences.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
so mr juncker's plan will undoubtedly have an impact, but it will only be able to take root in a truly sustainable way if the member states also carry out the necessary reforms.
on 25 february the commission presented its proposal for a european energy union.
the free flow of energy should ensure that we get more competitive wholesale prices on the european energy market, which will benefit consumers and businesses.
i regret to say that the european commission is failing to provide acer, the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, with the necessary resources to carry out this task.
as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy on the 2016 budget, i therefore call for the transfer of funds to ensure that the agency has the necessary means to do so.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
take the subject of climate.
i would also like to point out that the environmental aspect will be discussed, particularly the problem of marine pollution, in particular by plastics.
you tell us that you want to impose, that you want to discuss the respect of social and environmental standards throughout the production chain, but when you want to impose constraints as in the case of minerals extracted in conflict zones, you see all the resistance that this raises.
they will be designed to bring young people closer to local producers and to raise children's awareness of issues such as the variety of agricultural production, sustainability, environmental issues and food waste.
protection methods must keep pace with the changing cyberattack environment.
these products infringe intellectual property rights and pose a risk to health, consumer safety, the environment and the economy.
when we voted for the cap reform, our aim was to make direct payments fairer and greener, to strengthen the position of farmers in the food chain, to guarantee food security, to ensure the sustainability of the agricultural sector and to make the cap more efficient and transparent.
the communication identifies action to promote research and innovation, access to medicines and environmental issues as major challenges for today and tomorrow.
by voting in favour of this strategy, the european parliament confirms the eu's interest in helping its partners develop a healthy and secure business environment.
these infringing products pose a risk to the health and safety of consumers, the environment and the economy.
the european union needs to have a comprehensive legal framework, adapted to the online environment, to combat infringements of intellectual property rights within the union.
they play a major role in getting the european economy back on track by creating high-quality products and services and sustainable jobs: an annual contribution of some €4.7 trillion to european economic activity and 56 million jobs generated.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
these infringing products pose a danger to the health and safety of consumers, the environment and the economy.
the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol covers only 14% of global emissions, which is less than the first period, of which european emissions account for about 11%.
we must strive for a climate strategy that not only reduces emissions in europe but also aims to develop competitive technologies that offer innovative solutions to the climate challenge both within and outside europe.
we need to make policy choices that are efficient, sustainable and effective.
specifically: a circular model, where we manage our raw materials, materials and products more efficiently, recycle, recover and reuse, is good for the climate and will also significantly improve our competitiveness.
in any case, i believe that research and development is very important and that policy choices on climate policy can be effective and efficient when they are based on efficient research and development.
energy security, many have already pointed out how important it is for our economy, but also for our social policy, for our families, for our industry.
after analysis, i think we can agree on a situation where more than half of your energy needs to come from outside europe.
but we must think in the long term and therefore frame energy security in the energy union and also in climate policy.
there are options that we can take now that are actually the right options from all possible points of view, from social and economic and environmental points of view: renewable energy, energy efficiency and not continuing to invest in fossil fuels.
because why invest in a technology that we know is going to re-use fossil fuels, re-use polluting technology for our environment?
in our energy supply, we will have to give up fossil fuels in the long run.
but if there is one thing that can really make a large contribution to increasing our energy security, it is to finally create that internal energy market.
well-functioning gas and electricity markets will secure affordable energy prices for consumers, as well as improving industrial competitiveness.
unfortunately, the internal energy market is still kept divided by too many different national policies: we are looking at a dragon with 28 heads, all looking in different directions.
we need the further development and modernisation of our transmission infrastructure, and we really need the network to start implementing energy security.
yesterday they agreed to start collaborating and working together, so in that respect we have seen the first steps towards a true energy union that will also deliver on energy security.
tomorrow we shall vote on the report on energy security.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to decide on the use of energy from renewable sources.
the solution to our energy dependence, i believe, is a clear policy with a focus.
of course, there are also many positive elements in the report, and i am thinking in particular of the focus on energy efficiency, the better connections of the energy networks and more investment in research and innovation.
but we as a parliament will have another chance in the autumn with the report on the energy union.
i therefore urge that we seize the opportunity that we have there to ensure that our families and our businesses have affordable energy.
i have seen in this debate, first of all, the interest shown by the subject of energy security.
it is normal: a european union which imports 53% of its energy; in which six member states depend on russia as the only external supplier of gas; in which three states depend on russia for the operation and balance of their electricity grid; and taking into account the geopolitical situation we have experienced, this is a hot topic.
but the approach to its solution is multifaceted, as we have seen: there are many ways to increase our energy security.
the highest level of consensus i have seen in the debate is around energy efficiency policies.
and just a fact, which is that for every percentage point that we increase our energy efficiency, we reduce our gas imports by 2.6%, we manage to increase our energy security and, moreover, we achieve fundamental savings for european consumers.
the second major policy on which there is basic agreement is the development of a genuine internal energy market in the electricity and gas sectors.
and so we must also have an ambitious policy of interconnecting the territory, because we saw during the recent crisis in ukraine how reversible flows and european solidarity were very important to guarantee energy security in times of crisis.
the commission is seeking to ensure that no country is dependent on a single supplier and can rely on at least three suppliers, which means developing interconnections; which means supporting the southern corridor to make the gas connection with azerbaijan and, in its day, with turkmenistan; and which means developing a liquefied natural gas strategy which is very important as an element of energy security and as a guarantee in times of crisis.
the commission will therefore continue to support all developments, all actions within the framework of the energy union to make energy security a priority, and using all instruments.
to reduce its dependence on oil and gas imports, europe needs to focus on energy efficiency and renewable energy.
we also need to work on more cross-border interconnections and end the fragmented landscape of uncoordinated national energy markets.
this is the only way to set the stage for the much needed investment in the energy market.
the g7 agreement, which states that "serious reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions are needed with a complete decarbonisation of the global economy within this century", gives a clear signal about where we should be going in the long term.
that is the only way to really drive our companies and our economy forward, to become and remain leaders in sustainable innovation and technology.
‒ the kyoto protocol, signed in 1997, set an internationally binding emission reduction target: to meet the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8% below 1990 levels over the period 2008 to 2012. the eu ratified this protocol in 2002. at the doha climate conference in december 2012, the parties agreed to a further quantified emission reduction of 20% below 1990 levels for the period 2013-2020. for the european union, its member states and iceland, this means limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of their base year 1990 emissions.
i welcome this resolution because it sends a clear signal to the efforts and leadership of the eu and its member states in the fight against climate change at international level.
‒ the doha amendment introduces a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and will end on 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions for the period 2013-2020 to 80% of their baseline year emissions.
the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a specific framework for the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy.
it seems to me essential at this time to support an ambitious plan to combat climate change and greenhouse gas emissions.
by approving the draft council decision, parliament reaffirms the eu's leading role in the fight against climate change.
the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol set more ambitious and legally binding emission reduction commitments for the second commitment period, which expires at the end of 2020. in the second period, a 20% reduction in greenhouse gases is sought.
the eu and its member states have endorsed the joint ambition to reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions to 80 per cent of the 1990 baseline.
while the eu is making its commitment to combat climate change, it is regrettable that the major polluting countries are still lagging behind.
the eu must use all its political and diplomatic means to persuade these countries to join the fight against climate change.
the g7 leaders meeting in berlin this week have agreed to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions by phasing out fossil fuels by the end of the century.
the union has always been at the forefront of the fight against global warming.
this is also true of the target of reducing emissions by up to 20% compared to 1990 levels for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol (2013-2020).
the dual approach between rich and developing countries, which was introduced by the kyoto protocol in 1997, will have to be overcome, since large regions that are among the world's main polluters - china, india and brazil - are not currently subject to the obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
a common and binding commitment of the main economic blocs to the planet and the environment is a sine qua non for the success of the paris international climate summit (cop21), which starts on 30 november.
it should be added that this agreement is one of the last chances for the world's main decision-makers to preserve the goal of limiting global warming to 2°c degrees.
‒ the kyoto protocol on climate change was signed in 1997. it sets an internationally binding emission reduction target.
by ratifying the protocol, the european union committed itself to reducing its greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 8% compared to 1990 levels during the first period (2008-2012).
in 2012, the doha conference adopted an amendment to the protocol which introduces a second commitment period (2013-2020) of legally binding ghg reduction commitments, whereby the union commits to limiting its annual ghg emissions to 80% of its 1990 level over the period 2013-2020. the doha amendment also introduces three changes to the kyoto text which must be implemented during this second commitment period: the inclusion of a new gas; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source.
‒ the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint implementation of commitments by the european union is intended to send a strong signal about the efforts and leadership role of the european union and its member states in the fight against climate change at international level.
‒ as a party to the kyoto protocol, iceland committed to limiting the increase in emissions to below 10% over the period 2008 to 2012. for the second period 2013-2020, iceland declared its intention to comply with the quantified emission reduction agreed at the doha climate conference with the eu and its member states.
iceland is a party to the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) and the eu regulation on a system for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions (the monitoring regulation).
i have voted in favour of this resolution because it sends a strong signal to the eu's coordinated efforts to combat climate change at international level.
i can only rejoice that a country is following the lead of the european union in fighting climate change in the world.
the adoption of the proposal for a council decision on iceland's participation in the joint european climate effort during the second commitment period reinforces the eu's role as a driving force and a catalyst in the fight against climate change.
at iceland's request, negotiations with the eu necessary to achieve 'joint compliance' with the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol with several partners were completed in 2014. by entering into this partnership with the eu, iceland commits to work with the eu and its member states to achieve the objectives of significantly reducing greenhouse gas emissions and thereby take the necessary steps to halt the harmful effects of climate change.
the joint initiative of the eu and its member states on the one hand and iceland on the other underlines the need and importance of a joint, global and international approach to the climate challenge.
‒ the kyoto protocol on climate change was signed in 1997. it sets an internationally binding emission reduction target.
by ratifying the protocol, the european union committed itself to reducing its greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 8% compared to 1990 levels during the first period (2008-2012).
in 2012, the doha conference adopted an amendment to the protocol which introduces a second commitment period (2013-2020) of legally binding ghg reduction commitments, whereby the union commits to limiting its annual ghg emissions to 80% of its 1990 level over the period 2013-2020. the doha amendment also introduces three changes to the kyoto text which must be implemented during this second commitment period: the inclusion of a new gas; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source; the introduction of a new energy source.
‒ the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint implementation of the commitments of the european union, its member states and iceland during the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol will send a strong signal about coordinated european efforts in the fight against climate change at the international level.
the european union has long been a driving force in international climate change negotiations and played a key role in the development of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol.
it seems inconceivable to me that the european union and russia should have a good relationship in the current conflict climate.
just yesterday, the eldest daughter of the russian opposition leader boris nemtsov, who was assassinated in february, denounced that "the russian media, on the orders of the kremlin, is creating a climate of violence and terror".
‒ in may 2014, the european commission published the strategy for european energy security in response to the worsening crisis in ukraine.
the main objectives of the strategy for energy security include reducing energy demand, in particular by increasing energy efficiency, linking energy networks between member states and increasing domestic energy production.
the creation of a european energy union and the completion of the eu's internal energy market are currently given priority.
the urgency of a common energy supply strategy is mainly due to the eu's current fragile relationship with russia and the high degree of energy dependence on third countries the eu meets 53% of its energy needs through imports from third countries.
i therefore welcome the measures taken in the strategy and call on eu actors to work together towards the completion of the eu internal energy market.
‒ i believe that the energy security model is linked to the energy transition.
the priority must be to ensure energy efficiency, promote renewable energy and encourage financial investment in domestic energy production, rather than spending large sums to import energy.
the text called for action to be taken to moderate energy demand and increase local energy production while reducing carbon emissions.
it is important to take further action to build a fully integrated and synchronised system, to put in place solidarity and coordination mechanisms and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal energy market.
ensuring the union's energy security must be at the heart of our long-term energy strategy.
it is the cornerstone of a fully open and free common energy market, which ensures compliance with environmental standards while stimulating economic competitiveness.
‒ i regret that meps were unable to reach agreement on the fundamental issue of the european union's energy security and rejected the saudargas report, due to differences on the fracking issue.
the energy issues go far beyond the problem of shale gas and require a long-term strategy for a genuine european energy policy.
the alde group has a very ambitious strategy in this area, which i share: it is essential to go even further than the plan for the creation of the european energy union, presented by the commission on 25 february.
clean and renewable energy is another objective that europe needs to invest in in order to maintain its technological lead.
the present situation, with the union importing 53% of all the energy it consumes, is not sustainable.
energy efficiency is essential in this strategy.
‒ i voted this afternoon in favour of this report, which aims to define a european strategy for energy security.
the text provides, for example, that russia can no longer be considered a reliable partner because it explicitly challenges eu legislation, particularly in the wto, and exploits energy supplies for political purposes.
the report also recalls that parliament has already called on two occasions for binding targets for climate, renewable energy and energy efficiency by 2030. i also supported amendments such as the phasing out of all environmentally harmful subsidies; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels.
in insisting on the principle of solidarity, we should stress that energy security is a matter of collective action.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
finally, i support his call for a review of the european policy on the diversification of energy supplies with a view to the relaunch of the nabucco project.
‒ i have supported the pascu report because i believe it is essential to achieve constructive relations between the countries of the union and russia in order to move forward together in a climate of peace.
the aim is to reform the pension system to make it financially sustainable, while respecting the rights of the most vulnerable and precarious pensioners.
the third element is to make the greek debt sustainable.
we have policies on climate, energy, the energy union, the digital union.
this parliament is very much attached to the programmes which concern the future, in particular investment in research and development, energy and transport.
it is very unclear to me how the efsi and the juncker plan are delivering better returns on social, economic and environmental transition.
in addition, the compromise saves 4.1% on climate action and energy r&d funds each time.
‒ the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
a sum that may seem considerable, but which will not be too much to attract private investors who need a stable environment.
the latter would in practice undertake to co-finance the major infrastructure projects (energy and transport, telecommunications, environment) that had been awaited in vain since the delors era.
their input is essential for a sustainable recovery.
the text calls for the impact of structural reforms to be assessed over time, not only in terms of labour costs but also in terms of social, environmental and economic criteria.
well, we produce five tons of waste per citizen per year.
the transition to a circular economy brings environmental benefits but is above all an economic necessity.
we need tools to effectively measure and reduce the use of raw materials, a thoughtful product policy and smarter waste management.
there is also the international monetary fund, which first of all made a deal round the table and then two days later published a document saying that the deal is not sustainable.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety the committee on the environment is concerned about the possible impact of ttip on environmental, public health and food safety policy.
the environment committee also opposed the isds mechanism in ttip.
i would also like to thank mr bernd lange for passing on these ideas to encourage sustainable economic, social and environmental development in europe today.
‒ in the second half of 2014, romania, bulgaria and italy were hit by massive floods, causing extensive damage to public and private infrastructure, as well as to citizens' homes, agriculture, the environment and cultural heritage.
finally, five regions in north-west italy, including tuscany, were hit by floods and landslides in the summer, causing considerable damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, housing and private property, the agricultural sector and the environment, and claiming 11 lives.
we need to review our flood prevention plans, as well as our actions to mitigate the effects of climate change.
in addition to the issues of sustainability, cost-effectiveness, energy efficiency and environmental impact, there are traffic congestion problems, such as traffic jams and other traffic problems.
transport policy is one of the major challenges in europe from both an environmental and traffic congestion point of view.
in addition to the issues of sustainability, cost-effectiveness, energy efficiency and environmental impact, there are traffic congestion problems, such as traffic jams and other traffic problems.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we therefore need a plan to boost investment to put europe back on the path to sustainable and inclusive growth.
the negotiating power of milk producers is enhanced in a rather favourable environment, with the average price of milk in the european union rising to more than 40 ct/kg and consumer demand for milk products increasing.
the report highlights the positive experiences of ppps which have resulted in better project delivery, the possibility of financing long-term costs, and a more flexible and skilled management environment.
recall the importance of public-private partnerships (ppps) as a driver of economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation both within and outside the single market; it emphasises the strategic role of ppps in the modernisation of infrastructure, including energy, road, digital and water supply infrastructure.
the european union must redouble its efforts to ensure the viability and sustainability of the sector.
but unfortunately, global warming cannot wait.
we must move forward in the fight against greenhouse gas emissions.
with the introduction of this automatic correction mechanism (the market stability reserve or msr), we are - i am convinced - taking a very important step in the reform of our emissions trading system, which was almost overturned under the pressure of the economic crisis.
i think we are saving the most important pillar of our european climate policy.
the msr should provide a new stimulus to invest in energy efficiency and thus in lower emissions.
we are taking an important first step towards achieving our ambition to reduce co2 emissions by 40 percent by 2030. this will fundamentally strengthen our credibility and our bargaining position at the crucial un climate conference in paris later this year.
the reform we are now adopting proves that we can reconcile ambitious climate policy with economic growth and jobs.
we are well aware that the transition to low-carbon production requires very significant investment.
many european companies today have to compete with competitors from outside the european union who do not have to buy co2 emission allowances, and so there is indeed a risk of carbon leakage.
the energy-intensive industrial sectors which are making great efforts to reduce co2 emissions and are subject to international competition must of course be guaranteed in the future that they will not be penalized if they want to increase their production - which we all want, of course, if economic growth picks up again.
the new proposal should of course also further refine the carbon leakage guarantees for the coming years.
we can now turn this page and concentrate on our efforts to complete the architecture of the european union ets for the period after 2020. last year i committed here to translate the ets-related elements of the 2030 climate and energy policy framework into legislation swiftly after the market stability reserve (msr) had been agreed.
this proposal will constitute an important part of the work on the achievement of our resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy, which is a key political priority for the juncker commission.
it will focus on the aspects on which the european leaders gave us their guidance in october 2014. firstly, free allocation to industry will be continued to ensure that sectors at genuine risk of carbon leakage will be adequately protected.
secondly, the proposal will establish a modernisation fund for modernisation of the energy systems in lower—income member states.
finally, support for the development of low-carbon innovation will be continued through an innovation plan which, compared to the current ner300 facility, will see its scope extended to industrial innovation projects.
i am confident that we will be able to reach a good deal for the climate, for the competitiveness of european industry and for european citizens.
i think we can say that this decision deserves the approval of this house, because it is indeed a major step forward in the fight against global warming.
the commissioner has just referred to an exception for the energy sector, to the modernization fund and to the solidarity fund.
the commissioner has announced: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i suggest that we agree now that we are not going to be too defensive, that we are going to be forward-looking, ambitious, but also, as the commissioner rightly said, selective, that we are indeed putting in place safeguards for energy-intensive industry that is prone to carbon leakage, that we are going to help industry that cannot, for example, calculate the cost of electricity.
finally, mr president, climate protection on the one hand and the promotion of jobs and the further development of industry here in europe on the other hand need not be enemies of each other.
i think we can be satisfied with the introduction of a mechanism that should help to restore the european emissions trading system (ets).
if we want to boost green technology and end our fossil fuel addiction, we need a high carbon price.
mr prime minister, we look forward to working with you on a number of important policy initiatives, such as the better regulation agenda, the negotiations on an eu-us trade agreement, the energy union, the digital single market and the pursuit of a global agreement at the major climate conference in paris.
i think this proposed decision proves that it is possible on the one hand to reconcile the reduction of emissions and on the other to secure the future of a flourishing energy-intensive industry in europe.
apart from the arguments relating to public health, the environment, isds and transparency, it is already clear what lies ahead.
we demand the total and unconditional preservation of public services of general interest and reject the negative lists of liberalisation of services;-no to social and environmental standards which are neither ambitious nor binding;-no to regulatory cooperation, this mechanism which consists of making multinationals and other industrial lobbies a quasi-co-legislator and which leads to the lowering in the short, medium and long term of our european standards (social, environmental, food safety, etc.
we call for a balanced agreement respecting the highest social, environmental and health standards.
i will not vote for the ptci if current european standards on health, environment or social protection are being or are likely to be challenged, if the regulatory cooperation body put in place in any way infringes the sovereignty of the european assemblies to issue their own standards, and if the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism does not at least meet the requirements of the compromise amendment which excludes the use of private arbitration.
russian policy in the balkans, especially in serbia, is being conducted in conjunction with regional energy investments such as purchases of power plants and refineries, etc.
relations have been maintained for almost 50 years and many agreements have been signed in areas such as peace, sustainable development and cultural exchange.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
already in the sixth research programme, closer cooperation had emerged in key areas relating to the information society, transport, energy, biotechnology, the galileo system and space.
‒ i voted in favour of the establishment and use of a market stability reserve for the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme.
the council stressed in october 2014 that this would be the main instrument to achieve the greenhouse gas emission reduction target.
carbon prices are too low and do not offer a sufficient incentive for companies to invest in more carbon-efficient techniques.
at the same time we have to prevent carbon leakage by safeguarding companies that are price takers on the global markets from additional costs.
the innovation fund should also support companies in making the move to more carbon-efficient technologies.
‒ i supported this afternoon the report by ivo belet on the creation and operation of a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system.
behind this barbaric headline is a matter of the utmost importance: the use of a market instrument to reduce co2 emissions.
and there is a lot to be done, partly because the carbon market is not working well, tainted by the mistakes of the beginning: surplus free allocation of carbon quotas and the inability to stabilize the price of carbon so that it is an incentive to invest in clean technologies.
this is a good way to clean up the market, to tackle the problem of the surplus of allowances, currently estimated at over 2 billion, and thus to maintain the course the union has set itself: a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030.
in writing.
‒ the vote in parliament on wednesday will pave the way for structural reform of the eu emissions trading system (ets) by creating an operational market stability reserve as of 1 january 2019. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
an efficient and reformed emissions trading system (ets) with a market stabilisation tool, as proposed by the commission, will be the main instrument of the european union to achieve this greenhouse gas emission reduction target, as indicated in the conclusions of the european council of 23 october 2014.
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation approving the draft agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the latter to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing the horizon 2020 framework programme, and regulating the participation of the swiss confederation in iter activities conducted by fusion for energy (15369/2014).
the first agreement on nuclear fusion, for example, was signed on 14 september 1978. the helvetas now want to be part of the iter international fusion energy project, which was concluded by euratom on 21 november 2006. another sign of the european authorities' confidence in switzerland's neighbour was that in 2004 it was granted the right to be represented on the steering committees of the specific programmes and on various steering committees, an advantage for participating in the implementation of current research programmes.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to the framework programme for research and innovation, horizon 2020, and to the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020, and regulating the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contains several positive recommendations, namely:- the creation of sustainable and quality jobs for all (socio-economic security, adequate wages, decent working conditions, social protection, gender equality, vocational training, etc.
access to meaningful employment for all citizens of the union is a prerequisite not only for their individual fulfilment but also for the return of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
while these guidelines remained stable between 2010 and 2014, the commission proposed a set of new guidelines for member states' employment policies for 2015. these new guidelines should contribute to achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
supporting sustainable employment is essential.
‒ i supported this report which underlines that a transition to sustainable societies and economies, including sustainable consumption and production patterns, can offer the opportunity to create new quality jobs while converting existing jobs into green jobs in almost all sectors and throughout the value chain.
the report also calls for the introduction of social and environmental criteria in public procurement policies and for the reduction of employment burdens in favour of environmental taxation (without impact on the financing of social protection).
europe can achieve a new period of economic growth if it resolutely chooses to shift to a low-carbon and sustainable economy.
a green economy offers solutions for the climate and the environment, but also for society.
for industry, high-quality innovation should prepare the economy for a low-carbon and energy-efficient future.
‒ in july 2014, the commission published its 'green jobs initiative: harnessing the job creation potential of the green economy', showing its unwavering interest in the eu's transition to a low-carbon economy.
investing in the circular economy and renewable energy is seen as a matter of course, if not a necessity, for europe to get back on the path to sustainable growth and quality jobs quickly.
‒ through its europe 2020 strategy, the european union aims to develop a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy.
to do this, the eu has set itself five ambitious targets to be achieved by 2020. these include the target of 75 per cent of the population aged 20-64 having a job by 2020. to achieve this, europe is focusing on promoting sustainable and inclusive growth.
given the importance of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth in order to create jobs, but also not to jeopardise the living conditions of future generations, i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
national revenues are and will continue to be the main tool for financing sustainable development.
‒ the global economy uses one and a half times the value of the planet's resources to produce and absorb waste worldwide.
i welcome this report because it addresses this problem, among other things, and also because it points out that improving the use of resources could bring substantial net savings to businesses, public authorities and consumers in the union, estimated at eur 600 billion or 8% of annual turnover, while reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2·4%.
resource efficiency therefore remains one of the most important components of sustainable living.
this approach is obviously based on a model that favours sustainable investments.
the commission should rapidly present ambitious proposals on the circular economy to limit the environmental impact of the extraction, processing, production, use and disposal of raw materials.
sustainable waste management, including recycling, is also essential.
i am also of course in full support of the provision to ask the commission to set quantified targets for the reduction of food waste.
the donation of foodstuffs must increase substantially within the union and the commission must create a favourable environment in this respect.
as i also wrote in my report on green growth opportunities for smes, making the transition to a more efficient economy can lead to advantages for our businesses, in addition to the large environmental benefits that it will bring.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the circular economy and recycling of waste.
i am sorry to say, however, that in some european countries food waste is not even a topic.
today, only 40 percent of solid waste is reused or recycled.
the rest of the waste is still going to landfill or incineration.
the circular economy offers a sustainable solution to the waste problem.
not only does this reduce the waste mountain, opting for a circular economy also means developing new opportunities for growth and jobs in europe.
the european commitment to a better environment and a sustainable economy is not without obligation.
to achieve the economic and environmental objectives, investment is needed to modernise production processes and to produce better recyclable and sustainable products.
however, the world is still not recycling enough of its highly polluting electronic waste: 80% of it ends up in landfills.
it's not sustainable!
‒ the transition from a society of waste and resource waste - whether food, energy or raw materials - to a society of repair, reuse, recycling and resource efficiency is a necessity and a great opportunity for europe.
a strong commitment to a circular economy will enable the union to reduce its dependence on imported resources, protect the environment, boost innovation and the competitiveness of its industry and create jobs.
the text adopted urges the commission to submit new legislation based on binding targets for waste reduction and the progressive elimination of landfilling and a policy that promotes the decoupling of economic growth from resource use.
the text also calls on the eu to achieve a sustainable production model by 2050 and to set binding targets for the reduction of waste generated by 2025. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
‒ each european citizen produces 5 tonnes of waste a year and consumes up to 14 tonnes of raw materials.
more efficient waste management and improved product durability must once again become european priorities.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive.
a climate of general insecurity and economic paralysis has set in, causing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis.
in this regard, the report underlines the need for the eu to encourage support for a transition policy in tunisia, to support the development of civil societies and an inclusive security environment.
i support the coordinated implementation of these three aspects of our foreign policy, which will ultimately make the region safer and more sustainable in the future.
moreover, as the security environment in the eu's neighbourhood is deteriorating, we need to be able to broaden the range of crisis management interventions, to help our neighbours build appropriate security structures and to promote joint security initiatives by neighbouring countries.
the maintenance of sustainable economic and political relations requires an urgent and thorough rethinking of the european neighbourhood policy.
at the same time, the eu must safeguard its own strategic interests in its relations with its neighbours, such as in the area of energy security.
as the commission will be presenting a proposal for copyright reform next december, it seemed to me very useful for the european parliament to be able to give its priorities and to call for a review of ad hoc legislation to better adapt it to the digital environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
it is clear that the electoral process was severely compromised by restrictions on media independence, excessive use of force against protesters, a climate of intimidation against opposition parties and civil society, and a lack of confidence in the electoral authorities.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which condemns the decision of the burundian authorities to hold the presidential elections in july, which should have been postponed in view of the deteriorating political climate and the worsening humanitarian crisis.
the text also calls on all parties to resume dialogue and on the burundian authorities to involve all actors in the efforts required to create an enabling environment for the holding of peaceful, credible, free and fair elections.
mr president, this debate in plenary will not have been different, as we can see, from those which preceded it and which i attended in the committee on international trade, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and rural development.
i think the reports go a little too far, for example, in calling into question the temporary and renewable nature of the ban on cloning, which seems to me to be a slight on the possibilities of research.
these two derogations concerned traditional subsistence hunting and hunting for the sustainable management of marine resources.
since 2010, the european union has imposed an embargo on seal products, citing the immoral nature of the seal hunt, and at the same time provides for two derogations: - products from hunts by the inuit or other indigenous communities ('ci derogation') - products from small-scale, non-profit-making hunts aimed at the sustainable management of marine resources ('grm derogation').
i am glad that parliament has voted for a general ban on cloning for human or animal consumption, in the interests of human health, animal health and welfare and the environment.
the european union must give this matter serious thought, especially in the current climate of terror.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment and on the environment in the union, in particular by providing information on the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment and on the environment.
parliament also called for the adoption of a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation.
these are essential initiatives to attract young farmers again and ensure the sustainability of the agricultural sector in the eu.
it should not be used to weaken or even abolish social or environmental rules.
the european union has 25 million unemployed citizens, including more than five million young people under the age of 25. it is therefore essential to create an investment-friendly environment for our businesses and, more generally, to develop the entrepreneurial spirit throughout the union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the objectives of the programme include increasing knowledge of the seas and oceans, improving the skills needed to apply new technologies in the marine environment and strengthening the coordination of marine research.
‒ while the number of passengers transported by sea has decreased in recent decades, the blue economy has developed considerably, as evidenced by the growing importance of leisure activities, the exploration and exploitation of fossil energy resources, prospecting and prospects for exploiting minerals existing in the seabed, the prospects for exploiting the energy potential of waves, tides, currents or biomass for electricity generation, offshore wind generation or the development of marine biotechnologies.
the report, which i have approved, stresses in this connection that education and training, research and development are fundamental elements for the sustainable development of the blue economy.
a well-developed strategy should be put in place to fully exploit the growth potential of this sector by 2020. this strategy should encompass new technologies, counter the degradation of marine ecosystems and provide for long term sustainable growth.
the shift towards a new 'blue' economy, in which the resources of our coasts, seas and oceans are developed in a sustainable way, offers numerous opportunities for new economic growth and employment.
in the field of energy production, the sea, as an inexhaustible source of renewable energy, offers the opportunity to meet environmental objectives and create thousands of new jobs.
innovation in traditional sectors such as shipbuilding and fisheries should ensure the transition to sustainable shipping and fisheries.
however, in order to maximise the creation of new jobs, it is necessary to allow for optimal partnerships between science and industry and to develop an attractive investment climate for companies and private investors.
the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of sectors of economic activities related to the seas and oceans, ranging from traditional sectors to emerging sectors, such as fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and river transport, ports and logistics, tourism, pleasure boating, cruises, shipbuilding and repair, maritime and coastal defence works, exploration and exploitation of mineral and energy resources at sea and biotechnology.
they actively contribute to innovative and sustainable growth.
the initiative is based on the wider europe 2020 strategy, which proposes five objectives in the fields of employment, research and development, climate change and sustainable energy, education, the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
i endorsed this report which highlights the role of europe's cultural heritage as a strategic resource for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
culture is a vector of openness and a motor for democracies, acting against any nationalist withdrawal, racist temptation and exclusion that are fuelled by the current economic and financial, climate and food crises.
‒ the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which denounces the european commission's lack of ambition in the european citizens' initiative 'right2water', regrets the lack of new elements and formal political commitments despite the deep concerns of citizens.
the environment committee of the european parliament adopted a resolution endorsing the citizens' initiative and calling on the commission to oppose the privatisation of drinking water supplies.
i am very glad that we voted against the centre-right resolution and supported the resolution of the committee on the environment.
my plea to mrs mogherini, my plea to the presidency of the council, is that we should call on our representatives on the un security council to launch such a new initiative as soon as possible to end the conflict in syria because it is the only sustainable solution for this crisis.
it lives through all those who, wherever they live, take the measure of the humanitarian, social, environmental and democratic emergency to rise up and act together.
i am thinking of those farmers who want to win the bet to feed us in harmony with the land that gave us birth, of those researchers who are devising just and sustainable solutions to the problems of our time.
‒ i voted in favour of this new protocol, which promotes sustainable fishing and a more responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, and which establishes a mechanism for sustainable resource management.
the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and cape verde will strengthen policies for sustainable fisheries and good governance.
the financial aid, amounting to eur 3 300 000, will enable the country to revive its economy while allowing sustainable exploitation of resources, with particular attention being paid to the capture of sharks, which are very common in this part of the atlantic ocean.
‒ i voted in favour of this new protocol, which promotes sustainable fishing and a more responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, and which establishes a mechanism for sustainable resource management.
the development of fisheries, which is one of the key economic sectors of madagascar, is an essential instrument for its sustainable economic growth.
the partnership under this agreement will promote the fight against the waste of stocks, the creation of new opportunities for growth and employment in madagascar's coastal regions, the transfer of autonomy and the decentralisation of decision-making in this sector.
it is also important that this fisheries agreement includes a biodiversity component through monitoring of fisheries activity and mention of vulnerable and protected species.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the transport of dangerous goods.
only an ambitious european solution to the migration crisis will ensure a solidary and sustainable management of the phenomenon.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment (2007-2013).
‒ europe continues to face a number of challenges related to the economy, climate, environment and society at large.
poverty, social and spatial segregation, environmental degradation) or are solved there (efficient resource management and carbon neutral economy, economic development and innovation, social innovation and integration, etc.).
cities are a suitable place for economic growth, jobs, social inclusion and sustainable development.
although the pace of urbanisation has slowed in recent years, it is estimated that 80% of the eu's population will be urban by 2050. in view of these figures, and also of the importance of cities in economic, social, cultural and environmental development, the european commission has wanted to launch a debate on the urban dimension of european policies and on the main features of a possible future urban programme of the european union.
i would like to wish you, mrs mogherini, much courage and energy in your new active role in mediation to find a consensus that is in line with the balanced and nuanced approach that has been adopted in the past.
this means creating a simplified, stable and favourable environment for investing in healthcare, ranging from drug development to e-health applications to prevention strategies, bringing down the cost for the whole system.
these projects should support convergence of economies, ecological transition, innovation in smes, infrastructure, digital, education and social, and accelerate the creation of decent jobs.
last but not least we called for the commission to come up with a favourable regulatory framework for smes (with a key role in job creation) to promote smart-growth, digital and low carbon economies and to focus on youth unemployment.
the sustainability of public pension schemes, unemployment among people over 50 and discrimination against the elderly are all aspects of the phenomenon of active ageing which must be the focus of our concern.
i am in favour of a stronger harmonisation of the european transport system with economic growth, sustainability and fairer competition in transport.
the single market must also integrate without delay a network of dense, modern and efficient transport infrastructure, resource-efficient, serving free movement and trade, convenient for citizens and users, able to meet the challenge of sustainable mobility as well as urban mobility.
‒ this own-initiative report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport that i voted for yesterday calls on the european commission to adopt measures to help member states reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and calls for a comprehensive strategy for the decarbonisation of transport to achieve the objectives of the white paper.
as part of the commission's mid-term review of european transport policy, the text calls for co-modality to be strengthened with a focus on the cleanest modes of transport in order to meet the 2030 targets (40% reduction in ghg emissions compared to 1990 levels) and 2050 (60% compared to 1990 levels).
parents, friends and the social environment in which one grows up, but also education and the media, play a crucial role in transmitting, disseminating or breaking these traditional role patterns.
europe has long advocated a more inclusive society, in particular through the creation of social enterprises aimed at the development of activities with social, societal or environmental objectives.
these companies, which reinvest part of their profits in their social or environmental mission, deserve our full support.
for example, creating jobs for vulnerable groups, providing services to their staff members or, more broadly, having positive social and environmental impacts.
‒ these reports, which closely monitor the transposition of directives by the member states, show that the most problematic sectors are transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and the internal market.
secondly, we must be extremely vigilant so that the refit programme, whose overall objective is to simplify european regulations, does not cause any setbacks in the protection of workers' health and safety or the protection of the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which notes in particular that the four areas in which member states have been subject to infringement procedures for failure to transpose in recent years were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and internal market and services issues.
i do not want to make too many links between the dramatic humanitarian crisis we are facing and the energy union, but there are some.
first of all because energy is the subject on which we must prove during this parliamentary term that europe has added value.
but also because the energy union is a holistic approach that takes into account climate, energy security and also social aspects, such as the price people pay.
in this way we can ensure that people see a future in the european project and also link it to the climate.
commissioner šefčovič and his colleagues promised at the beginning of the parliamentary term that the commission would make the energy union work.
but the commissioner also said: i have been systematically coming up with packages to actually implement the energy union and since june the first package has been there.
in the introduction you did not by chance pay much attention to the emissions trading system.
this is of course also true of the other dossiers in the summer package, such as the energy labelling directive, which is consumer-centric and aims to guide consumers towards the right choices.
that is a somewhat technical but no less important matter and for our group, again, energy efficiency and renewable energy are at the heart of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner and i wish us a lot of hard work in the coming months to prove to the outside world that we are pursuing a really strong policy with the energy union.
i would like to refer to what mrs figueres of the united nations said here yesterday in the committee on the environment.
she said that europe was now at the forefront of the climate dossier on its way to paris.
this is not easy for our energy-intensive industry, but at the same time it is also a very great opportunity, provided it is done in a balanced way.
carbon leakage is and will remain a very important concern.
i therefore respect the commission's decision to use free allowances in those energy sectors which are really exposed to international competition.
not only emergency solutions need to be developed, but also and above all a sustainable long-term migration policy, including a permanent relocation mechanism to be activated in case of emergency.
other objectives and challenges presented in this resolution are the mobility of workers which the commission is to present before the end of the year, a european definition of tax havens based on oecd criteria, an ambitious climate and energy framework for 2030 and, of course, support for farmers through new market instruments to anticipate and absorb market shocks.
for example, the nva supports the european commission's ambitions on trade policy, safeguarding and deepening the internal market, the better regulation agenda, energy and climate policy, and a coherent foreign and security policy.
only an ambitious european solution to the migration crisis will ensure a solidary and sustainable management of the phenomenon.
the protocol calls in particular on ilo member states to develop a national policy and a national action plan for the effective and sustainable abolition of forced labour after consultation with workers' and employers' organisations.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to support the development of the eu's energy sector.
in view of the acute shortage of liquidity in the greek economy and of public funds, it was necessary to adopt an exceptional measure to help finance the investments supported by the european cohesion funds and essential for a sustainable recovery.
‒ greece has been hit hard by the financial crisis and has had to and still has to deal with a shortage of liquidity and a lack of public funds available to finance the investments needed to foster a sustainable recovery.
it is true that the european union sometimes lacks logic, and perhaps even lacks its own logic (except for the waste of taxpayers' money), and you certainly cannot expect the citizen, who is subjected to all this, to understand the logic of it.
this small financial boost comes after a shutdown that has become inevitable in a difficult economic environment.
i supported this report which argues that strategic planning at national and local level is absolutely necessary for the promotion and integration of the social, economic and environmental dimensions of development aid.
local authorities are essential actors in poverty reduction and the implementation of the sustainable development strategy.
sustainable development is only possible if it is based on effective, transparent and accountable governance that gives greater autonomy to local authorities, civil society organisations, women, youth, minorities, etc.
excessive urbanization undermines the sustainability of development in all its dimensions.
as we all know, air pollution across the eu is already causing more than 400 premature deaths a year.
let me conclude by saying that we should never waste a serious crisis such as this one, and it is not about being against or in favour of diesel.
the current situation is not sustainable.
co2 fraud is fraud on tax incentives, particularly in countries where these incentives were linked to car power or environmental virtues.
in addition to implementing a number of necessary reforms that can boost the economy in this country in a sustainable and inclusive way, it is therefore essential that the eu also engages.
implementation of the expected reforms, in addition to its existing strengths such as its human resources and its open economy, will enable it to fulfil its full potential and provide a sustainable and inclusive boost to its economy.
‒ there are about 150 000 medium combustion plants in the eu which are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions.
while large combustion plants are covered by an ad hoc directive, air pollutant emissions from medium combustion plants are not.
a proposal for a directive aims to regulate emissions from these medium-sized installations with the aim of reducing pollution for new and existing installations and of making effective application of the standards via a recording system.
the report, which i have approved, supports the commission's proposal but provides clarifications on the application of the new directive in relation to the existing acquis, particularly in the area of industrial emissions.
they are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions.
there are already eu regulations for small and large combustion plants, but until now, emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants were not regulated at eu level.
these are often local combustion plants that supply energy or heat to small village communities or large buildings or, for example, supply steam or hot water to public district heating networks.
in order to comply with the directive and at the same time to guarantee the energy supply, the operators of these combustion plants have ample time to adapt to the stricter emission standards.
‒ amid the volkswagen scandal over the fraud in pollution tests of 11 million diesel vehicles worldwide, meps adopted important legislation on air quality this afternoon.
unlike small and large combustion plants, they are not currently covered by eu legislation, although they cause an increase in particulate matter (pm) emissions.
i supported this agreement at first reading with the council, as i did on 15 july in the committee on the environment.
efforts will need to continue at all levels of government because, as the european environment agency points out, air pollution poses direct risks to people and the environment: concentrations of particulate matter are responsible for more than 400 000 premature deaths each year in the eu.
‒ i voted in favour of this european directive which will limit the emissions of certain air pollutants from medium-sized combustion plants, such as electricity generators and domestic or industrial heating or cooling systems.
the vote confirms the agreement reached on 23 june by the negotiators of the european parliament, the european commission and the council of the eu on the first reading of this legislation, which for the first time will regulate the pollution of the 143 000 installations with a thermal output of 1 to 50 megawatts.
the text introduces rules for monitoring carbon monoxide.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the implementation of the union's environmental and social legislation, in particular the new environmental and social legislation, and the new environmental and social legislation.
it also specifies how contracting authorities can contribute to the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development, while ensuring the possibility of obtaining the best value for money in their contracts, which they can do, in particular, by requiring special labels or using appropriate award methods.
we cannot overcome our economic weaknesses if we do not liberate ourselves of 28 national regulators in all the markets of the future digital, energy and capital.
the plans to double the north stream pipeline run counter to the objectives we have set ourselves for the energy union.
the european union must reduce its dependence on russian gas in the coming years, not only by diversifying its suppliers but also by looking for alternative energy sources.
the resolution, five years later, draws both positive and negative lessons from the catastrophe of red mud, a hazardous waste that had caused the pollution of vast areas of land.
in this resolution, and with a view to preventing further disasters, parliament called for the correct implementation of eu legislation and for environmental inspections to be strengthened, particularly in the field of waste management from the extractive industry.
in this connection, parliament called on the commission to submit a legislative proposal on environmental inspections.
european environmental legislation is one of the most ambitious in the world.
in particular, the prevention of industrial disasters and the vigilant management of hazardous waste such as red mud must be among the priorities.
‒ on 4 october 2010, the rupture of a waste reservoir in hungary led to the release of nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, which caused flooding in several villages, killed ten people, injured nearly 150 and polluted large areas of land, including 4 natura 2000 sites.
the text adopted, which i supported, therefore calls in particular on the commission and the member states to intensify their efforts to ensure the full implementation and correct application of all relevant union legislation and all relevant international conventions, not only with regard to the manufacture of aluminium and the environmentally sound management of red sludge, but also, in general, the environmentally sound management of hazardous waste.
we are calling on all member states with red mud pools to check whether the red mud has been correctly classified as hazardous waste and to review as soon as possible all the permits based on incorrect classifications.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
gender equality and women's empowerment are key to achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals, but they are also stand-alone human rights objectives that should be pursued regardless of their benefits for development and growth.
as the earth continues to warm, we are soon faced not only with a terrible environmental disaster but also with a population shift that is reflected in today's refugee crisis.
when i see how difficult we have it today, i think there is a reason to put all of us behind a good report by gilles pargneaux and soon a climate agreement will be signed.
we must try to reach an agreement, but also and above all our own initiatives and set clear objectives on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i think we can all agree that all sectors must make an effort: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
but of course it is also a matter of driving and taking care of things and, above all, ensuring that the competitiveness of our european energy-intensive industry is not compromised.
that is why we must, among other things, make every effort to link our unique european emissions trading system with similar models on other continents.
that should be one of our goals: a global emissions trading system.
that is one of the best tools to achieve low-carbon production.
climate change, together with biodiversity loss and resource scarcity, is one of the most important global challenges.
with a view to cop 21 in paris in early december 2015, parliament, through this resolution which i approved, underlines the extreme importance and gravity of the threats posed by climate change and expresses concern that the international community is significantly moving away from the path to be followed in limiting global warming to 2 °c above pre-industrial levels.
the rapporteur calls in particular on the union and its member states to work with all civil society actors to develop initiatives in key sectors for mitigating warming and calls on businesses to accept and actively exercise their responsibilities and promote support for the climate agreement.
this report clearly shows more ambition than what was agreed by european environment ministers last month.
the greens tried to tighten the stakes even further with a proposal to protect the paris climate accords from corporate claims.
governments taking action to combat climate change should never be hindered by companies threatening isds claims.
it is crucial for the paris negotiations that developing countries receive more guarantees of financial support for their fight against climate change.
climate finance should be on top of development aid.
in short: the new climate treaty should be legally binding; put the world on a path to complete phasing out of co2 emissions by 2050 or shortly thereafter; the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the criteria for the selection of the union's climate change mitigation and adaptation programmes.
bring the latest scientific knowledge; aim to end all fossil fuel subsidies by 2020; require international shipping and aviation to reduce their emissions; identify clear sources of climate finance (such as eu ets and revenues from additional fuel taxes); ensure that climate finance does not come at the expense of the development aid budget.
first, the climate situation has deteriorated.
it is also a vital issue in the sense that if we do not act against climate change, the consequences of this phenomenon will be devastating: drought, famine, floods, mass migration.
we must, as jean-claude juncker has said, 'bring back stability in a sustainable way ... by creating job opportunities in local communities, and thus tackling the root causes of instability, forced displacement and illegal migration'.
‒ a new protocol on climate change will be negotiated at the un climate conference cop 21 in paris from 7 to 12 december 2015. the resolution adopted gives the european parliament's delegation the mandate to negotiate; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i am also in favour of an ambitious and above all binding reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ with a view to cop 21 in paris in early december 2015, parliament, through this resolution which i have approved, underlines the extreme importance and gravity of the threats posed by climate change and expresses concern that the international community is significantly moving away from the path to be followed in limiting global warming to 2 °c above pre-industrial levels.
the rapporteur calls in particular on the union and its member states to work with all civil society actors to develop initiatives in key sectors for mitigating warming and calls on businesses to accept and actively exercise their responsibilities and promote support for the climate agreement.
in particular, i voted for the provisions calling for the 2015 climate protocol to be adopted at the paris conference to be legally binding and ambitious in aiming for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the upper range recommended by the ipcc, which ranges from 40 to 70 per cent by 2050 compared to 2010, in order to keep the world on a low-cost emission reduction pathway consistent with the goal of limiting global warming to 2 degrees.
we now call on the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to define strategic priorities for external climate policy, enshrined in the overall foreign policy objectives, and to ensure that union delegations place greater emphasis on climate policies, on monitoring countries' efforts to mitigate or adapt to climate change, and on supporting capacity building, and that they have the necessary means to undertake climate monitoring actions.
parliament called on the eu to cooperate more closely on climate issues with neighbouring and candidate countries to encourage them to align their policies with the eu's climate objectives.
‒ climate change is one of the most important global challenges, along with biodiversity loss and resource scarcity.
we fully recognize the climate problem and want to tackle both its effects and its causes.
indeed, the choices we make today must be sustainable, efficient and effective so that we can sustain them for years to come.
the mandate for the ep delegation to the paris climate summit certainly has positive elements, but it is first and foremost a missed opportunity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it was important to me that consumer protection remained, while at the same time preventing retailers, who often offer better and more sustainable travel arrangements, from being overtaken by large companies that take over the market completely.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution caused by certain dangerous substances.
the european environment agency estimated that as many as 430,000 premature deaths related to poor air quality occurred in 2011 alone.
the impact of diesel vehicles on the achievement of the union's greenhouse gas emission targets, together with the importance of the automotive sector in general, demonstrates the need for action.
in the aftermath of the volkswagen scandal, it has become clear that the methods we currently use to measure car emissions are not accurate enough.
that is why i voted for this resolution, because it calls, among other things, for the introduction of real driving emissions testing as soon as possible.
this should give consumers a better idea of the real consumption and emissions of their cars.
‒ every day new revelations emerge about the scandal of cheating on car emissions tests.
we know the damage caused by air pollution.
we have just set new limits for some key pollutants and next month we have the big climate conference.
excess emissions of pollutants have many adverse effects on human health and are a cause of premature death.
they also produce environmental damage.
i think it is necessary to shed light on the fraud of the volkswagen company, which manipulated its diesel-powered vehicles to deceive the american emissions inspections, and on any involvement of european authorities, whatever they may be.
i would add that on social, fiscal and environmental dumping, what you want to do with ttip and what you want to do with the programme for better regulation is quite the opposite of what should be done.
it is a scandal in public health, in the environment, in law enforcement, in market distortion, in short, just the subjects for which the commission is competent, and what does commissioner bieńkowska say?
however, if there is no opposition from this side, we can devote all our energy to what is essential, namely what our colleague josé fernandes has just mentioned: the refugee crisis, of course, which we must deal with with both lucidity and humanism, but also their economic redeployment and the revival of growth.
mr president-in-office of the council, do not think that some of the priorities we have set in this budget are merely formal priorities: we will defend them with all our energy.
of course, we all want cleaner air and a cleaner environment.
as mr huitema has pointed out: this is already covered in the climate package and there is no way to reduce methane emissions from livestock farming except by reducing the livestock or by putting all the cows back in the stable.
air pollution is responsible for at least 400 000 premature deaths in the union from respiratory infections, heart attacks and cancers.
if our proposals, which have a slim majority in the committee on the environment, had been adopted in the plenary, we could have prevented more than 42 000 extra premature deaths in europe every year.
these pollutants emitted by intensive livestock farming cause a lot of fine dust and ozone pollution.
to tackle this pollution, the agricultural sector must also make a contribution.
we also welcome the binding 2025 emission ceilings, the additional opportunities for local governments to tackle air pollution, greater citizen participation and easier access to justice if governments do not take sufficient action.
i therefore voted for an increase of only 12 instead of 28 additional judges to reduce the workload but not to waste resources and staff.
‒ i voted in favour of the provisions on fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement which provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of depletion.
‒ knowing that 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to pollution levels harmful to human health, i supported this resolution which favours strict and binding targets for the limitation of toxic emissions for 2025 and 2030. the proposals include the limitation of six toxic pollutants, the agricultural sector being also concerned.
in view of the damage caused to the environment and to human health by the emission of pollutants, i believe it is important that this problem be tackled.
‒ air pollution remains a huge problem and requires a cross-border approach.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat air pollution.
the impact of air pollution on vulnerable groups, especially children, requires our absolute priority.
the nva delegation shares the analysis of the rapporteur and the european commission that we need to show ambition, mainly by tightening up the standards per member state for six of the most polluting substances by 2030, by setting binding interim targets by 2025 and by tackling pollution at source.
the rapid introduction of real driving emissions tests in the automotive sector is also fundamental in this respect.
we don't have time to waste.
i have supported the vast majority of the other commission proposals because air pollution has enormous human and economic costs.
air pollution also damages the environment and knows no boundaries.
i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the report on emissions of certain air pollutants, which aims to revise the 2003 directive.
the union intends to tackle the problem of air pollution.
not because the paris climate summit is on the horizon, but because air pollution is responsible for 400 000 premature deaths in the eu every year.
more specifically, i supported binding targets for six gases which are particularly harmful to the environment and/or human health: ammonia, fine particulate matter, nox, so2, vocs and methane.
for the latter gas, which is bad for the ozone layer, i took account of the difficulty for the agricultural sector to comply with the most ambitious standards.
but it is essential to do more about the invisible killer of air pollution, which kills ten times as many people each year as road accidents.
‒ i welcome the vote on this report, which has led the european parliament to vote in favour of emission ceilings for pollutants which must be much stricter to combat air pollution.
the report adopted reinforces the emission ceilings for certain pollutants that are hazardous to health for 2020-2030. air pollution causes some 400 000 premature deaths in the eu each year.
‒ europe must be at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
we want a just transition to a sustainable, low-carbon economy.
90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to pollution levels considered to be dangerous.
‒ we must not forget that our own farmers produce food of the highest quality in a highly regulated environment.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in this report, parliament takes stock of the benefits that the region could derive, in particular the protection of its marine, coastal and terrestrial ecosystems and blue growth, highlighting the immense potential of the region in terms of blue jobs and sustainable and innovative economic development and growth, due to its exceptional geographical position and specific coastal structure.
it also noted the positive impact of the strategy on the development of sustainable and competitive tourism, which is of crucial importance for the european economy and the development of social cohesion within the union.
the strategic investment funds that the eu has are providing the necessary investment in energy networks between countries, the elimination of 'missing links' in infrastructure, innovations in shipping and fisheries and the development of the region's tourist assets.
it has a remarkable geographical position and a very rich marine biodiversity.
secondly, it is necessary to improve transport networks and the distribution of energy between the countries participating in this macro-regional strategy and also between them and their other neighbours.
finally, it is also important to preserve the quality of the environment in this region, as the adriatic sea is home to almost half of all marine species recorded in the mediterranean.
it is a comprehensive strategy for sustainable growth and jobs, centred on the key objectives of employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability, education and the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
cohesion policy is the union's main investment, growth and development strategy, aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which aims to reduce regional disparities and promote convergence and has a budget of eur 351,8 billion by 2020, so that the european union can continue to cope with the effects of the economic and financial crisis: high unemployment, uneven and slow economic recovery.
cohesion policy aims to ensure that all energies and resources are mobilised and devoted to achieving the europe 2020 objectives of sustainable growth and jobs.
we must therefore do everything we can to create an ecosystem that can bring investors, entrepreneurs and smes together in a positive way.
the periodic changeover from summer to winter time and vice versa has not been shown to have any positive effect on transport, tourism, energy consumption, agriculture, health and european industry.
it is also highly uncertain whether the introduction of summertime in europe has reduced energy consumption.
with this report, mr foster has struck a good balance between respect for privacy, the safety of the aircraft and the environment, and finally the growth opportunities for a promising industry.
as the economic climate is gradually improving, it is time to look at how we can reactivate the longterm unemployed in the european union.
‒ this own-initiative report, which i supported, covers, among other things, the development of a brand strategy, the joint promotion of tourist destinations in europe, sustainable and responsible tourism, the sharing economy and digitalisation.
the two areas where investment is absolutely necessary if we are to be competitive are energy efficiency and resource efficiency - in other words, for the same unit of gross domestic product, we should consume both less energy and fewer resources than our competitors.
it is a question of greater independence for europe, which is known to be poor in resources and energy, but also a condition for competitiveness.
the european aviation sector faces many challenges, including increased passenger flows, competition, passenger rights, aviation safety and co2 emissions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the social aspects of the environment.
the resolution calls for the european aviation industry to be given a boost to ensure its sustainability and viability.
the energy union is a particularly good initiative for me to finally start working on a single european energy market.
we all know that the 28 small national networks, the 28 separate national regulators and the different forms of energy policy adopted in 28 countries are no longer sustainable.
a real european energy strategy presupposes that we at least try to work together and not make decisions which affect others without discussing the consequences with each other.
i am therefore very pleased and can only applaud the fact that you are also ensuring systematic follow-up with this state of the energy union.
this is the only way for consumers and businesses to benefit from affordable, secure and sustainable energy in the long term.
do we want to meet the climate targets?
do we want green energy?
do we want to be energy independent?
but offshore wind energy is very expensive.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy in the light of the new energy market developments.
i think the energy union - and i hope we agree on this - is the most important policy package of the coming legislature.
we must therefore make great strides in further increasing the share of renewable energy, further reducing our energy consumption and guaranteeing the continuity of gas supply.
the paris climate conference starts in less than a week.
our companies, energy-intensive companies, will also make a major contribution to our reformed ets system.
such a global emissions trading system would be the best tool to ensure low-carbon production worldwide.
as a full member of this regional fisheries organisation, the union will be able to take part in the voting and play the crucial role that is now its own as a promoter of sustainable fishing activities.
through its external fisheries policy in general and in the regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos) in particular, the union can and must promote internationally the principles it applies internally, such as the sustainability of fisheries or the ecosystem approach.
the european union has been a cooperating non-contracting party to the enlarged btwc since 2006. following the commitments contained in the provisions of the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982 relating to the conservation and management of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks, the european union has pursued a very active policy of participation in all regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos) in order to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in addition, this membership demonstrates europe's commitment to the conservation and sustainable use of global fish stocks.
the best recipe for social exclusion and generational poverty is to ensure that children, regardless of their current material or social background, continue to have access to good nutrition, energy, good health care and quality education.
‒ with the increasingly global challenges and the upcoming un climate conference in paris, the eu's role within the un is a key issue.
we are facing a number of global challenges, such as growing insecurity, the climate challenge, epidemics, migration and the protection of human rights, all of which require a strong, united, global and collective response.
i therefore welcome the report by mr martin, which strikes a very important balance between the future of industry - and i am a strong believer in a european union with strong industry - and at the same time meets very ambitious climate objectives.
i am particularly disappointed that this debate is being used to attack climate policy, and this a week before the very important decisions we are going to have to make in paris.
what we need is a strong european economic policy with great environmental ambitions, and that means a real anti-dumping policy, commissioner.
i would ask you to show a lot of ambition in this and not wait for complaints from individual companies, but to be very active on anti-dumping policy and at the same time be very ambitious on climate and energy policy.
what is important is an energy union in which we ensure that electricity prices are brought into a level playing field throughout the union.
you have understood that the energy transition is not only an ecological issue, but also a strategic and security issue.
so, as with climate change, that other global problem, it's nonsense to think that going back to the home country can solve the problem.
after all, climate change does not stop at national borders, nor do radical ideas and terrorism.
recycling needs to be further developed and encouraged, but this argument cannot justify the use of substances whose waste can be hazardous.
the reasons given are not convincing: the recycling technique would justify the continued use of substances whose waste could be hazardous and a marketing authorization would enable manufacturers to reduce their production costs.
the european executive must protect european citizens and their environment from dangerous chemicals, so i voted for the european commission to withdraw its draft request for implementation.
since dehp is not chemically bound to plastic, it is readily dispersed into the environment.
‒ given the danger of dehp due to its negative impact on the environment and human health, i voted in favour of this objection, so that the european commission would not allow plastics containing this substance to be recycled.
despite a large number of guidelines to achieve a healthy working environment for workers, we still have 4,000 fatal accidents at work every year and the number of fatal work-related diseases continues to peak at 150,000 per year.
health and safety at work is a fundamental interest of society and an investment that has a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises, improves the sustainability of social security systems and allows people to work in good health until the legal retirement age.
it is a waste of time.
jean louis borloo is out of politics now, but he has started a very important initiative – ‘energy for africa’ – to try, with private and public funding, to build up something that is absolutely needed for that continent: a huge investment in energy so that every family and every company in africa has this possibility of having an energy supply.
the way forward is to help them not only by public means, but also, for example, with initiatives like energy for africa, where there is a huge programme that is key for the future of that continent.
it also called on the partners concerned to work swiftly towards the effective implementation of the proposed action plans on human rights, the environment and labour.
this agreement covers both trade and development issues in order to ensure a stable environment for sustainable trade.
the text of the resolution also calls on the commission to "actively pressure" ecuador to comply with the same obligations that colombia and peru were bound by under the roadmap on environmental protection, workers' rights and human rights, which accompanied the multi-party agreement.
the european union must more generally reverse the intensive farming system, which is bad for animals and the environment.
better and more sustainable use of resources is essential.
we have been delayed for a year and a half and i will of course study the proposal in detail, but i have some questions and criticisms, particularly on the waste legislation.
you said it yourself: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its implementation in the member states.
for example, while in flanders we recycle 65 per cent of our household waste, some member states dump 80 per cent of it.
full implementation of existing waste legislation is therefore a necessary first step.
i understand that there is a need for tailor-made measures, but i do not think that lowering the level of ambition from 70 to 65 per cent for recycling targets for household waste and providing deferrals to a whole range of member states is such a good choice.
the objectives for recycling waste are also weaker in terms of both content and timing, while the commission's impact assessment clearly shows that the stronger the objectives, the greater the economic benefit for each member state.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the previous commission originally proposed a non-binding target of reducing food waste by 30% by 2020. the european parliament called for a commitment to reduce food waste by 30% by 2025. now timmermans comes up with "a general commitment to stop food waste", without a timetable or binding targets?
unfortunately, this new proposal will not put us on the path to sustainable development unless the circular economy concept contributes to an effective and absolute reduction in the consumption of raw materials.
to prevent this waste of food, products, energy or materials, the european parliament has already called for ambitious and binding european legislation.
more efficient waste management and improved product sustainability must once again become european priorities.
ladies and gentlemen, the development of plans for long-term sustainable urban mobility is important to achieve the objectives that the european union has set for itself in terms of co2 emissions, noise pollution, air pollution and accident reduction.
it is also in this context that the development of sustainable urban mobility plans should and must be one of the guiding principles of project financing in europe.
mr president, i thank the luxembourg presidency, mr schmit and mrs mutsch for the effort and energy they have devoted to the question of equality between men and women.
and so, once again, economic interests, wherever they may be, take precedence over the protection of nature, the environment, even entire lives in the democratic republic of congo.
‒ i have endorsed this report, which highlights the positive aspects of the action taken so far at european level in organising sustainable urban mobility.
in this respect, it stresses the importance of spatial planning for the creation of well-organised, efficient and sustainable transport networks, as well as the information and involvement of all stakeholders (citizens, traders, transport operators, etc.)
due to increasing urbanisation, 82% of eu citizens will soon live in an urban environment.
but the increasing pressure of mobility and the finding that urban transport is responsible for 25 percent of co2 emissions threatens to undermine the vitality of the city.
new and sustainable models of urban mobility are needed to maintain and sustain the dynamism of cities.
new urban transport plans will therefore primarily use low-carbon modes of transport that connect to an urban grid of smart traffic hubs that allow for quick and easy transition from one mode of transport to another.
the development of sustainable transport plans must always seek to strike a balance between the ecological and social impact of a mobility plan and the needs of the city's residents and visitors, all without undermining the city's economic engine.
‒ congestion and pollution in large cities are painful realities of our daily lives that need to be improved urgently for good health and a better environment.
this was also emphasized by the european parliament this evening when it adopted the delli report on sustainable urban mobility.
however, it seems impractical in reality, since many subsidies for polluting energy directly benefit the most vulnerable people.
the priority is therefore to reverse the current practice and to shift public support towards renewable energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which encourages in particular member states to review their strategies to promote non-motorised transport in order to serve the converging interests of improving mobility and the urban environment.
in fact, the shift to more sustainable modes of transport is very slow: the car remains the main mode of our mobility, accounting for 43% of the kilometres travelled worldwide and three quarters of journeys in europe.
‒ a sharp increase in mobility pressures and the associated pollution in our cities is a growing problem for our society.
it is clear that we need to look for new co2-neutral transport options that improve urban mobility in a sustainable way.
i therefore voted in favour of this report because better and more sustainable mobility can also be a major boost for our economy.
without a doubt, we should invest in renewable energy.
but the more renewable energy we produce, the more we strain the existing grids with peaks and troughs in supply.
second point of order: if we want to give renewable energy a fair chance, we need to let the market do its job as quickly as possible.
fourth and final point: if we are to achieve the 2020 and 2030 targets and the subsequent targets, we need energy storage.
conclusion the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the introduction into the community of certain substances harmful to the health of workers.
the european parliament has therefore put this debate on the agenda today, and at the earliest possible moment after the vote in the committee on the environment.
the commission decided to allow this gmo on 4 december, three days after the environment committee raised its objection and before this plenary debate.
commissioner, would you please convey this message to mr andriukaitis; we shall then invite him to the environment committee to discuss this further.
as cop 21 comes to a close, we should actually put the whole package on investment in the energy transition.
this is obviously a climate requirement, but it's also a geostrategic requirement if we want to stop defending people like putin or saudi arabia.
this is a requirement in terms of jobs, since everyone knows that renewable energy is much more job-intensive than traditional energy.
secondly, when we talk about costs, it is not just labour costs, but also energy costs, resource costs, return on capital, in other words all costs.
the commission is also proposing to increase the number of national experts in the field of the environment.
renewable energy (geothermal, wind, solar), the environment (water and waste), and infrastructure construction (roads, seismic and cyclone-resistant construction) are all sectors that present real opportunities for the european market.
the conclusion of the bilateral agreement between the union and the state of samoa will strengthen the relationship between the two parties, which are already cooperating successfully on key issues related to human rights, gender equality, climate change and the environment.
the measures provided for in this amendment will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, producing sustainable environmental and social benefits.
in view of the damage caused by such fishing and the threat it poses to the sustainability of fish stocks, the union must redouble its efforts and cooperate closely at international level to eradicate such activities as soon as possible.
‒ with reference to the commission's package on the european energy union, parliament's position on this issue is set out in this resolution.
in principle, i share the view that the eu should aim to reduce its dependence on individual energy suppliers (security of supply) and that energy efficiency should be fundamentally reconsidered and treated as an independent source of energy.
i regret, however, that the text does not take account of an amendment which is important to me and which deals with the negative consequences of fracking on the climate, the environment and public health.
since i believe that fracking is not a promising technology and that, apart from the environmental and health risks, the investment and development costs are too high, member states should refrain from exploring and extracting shale gas.
‒ at a time when cop 21 has delivered ambitious and necessary targets, i supported this resolution in which parliament reaffirms its commitment to the 2030 climate and energy targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40%, increasing the share of renewable energy in the european energy mix to 27% and increasing energy efficiency by 30%.
parliament also stressed that the energy union should be a comprehensive approach focusing on various aspects such as the achievement of a fully integrated internal energy market, security of supply, the best use of the union's energy resources, limiting energy demand, reducing greenhouse gas emissions mainly through renewable energy sources and an eu-wide carbon market, and research and innovation in the energy sector.
it also stressed the obvious fact that citizens should be at the heart of the energy union and benefit from safe, sustainable and affordable energy and called for their involvement in all the work of the energy union.
‒ the energy union is without doubt the most important policy package of this legislature.
all vital policy areas come together here: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the following issues: we need to make big legislative strides in the coming year to increase the share of renewable energy, reduce energy consumption through greater energy efficiency, and guarantee the continuity of gas supply.
in 2016, we also need to take important steps to develop a balanced ets system that ensures that we can further reduce co2 emissions, but also that adequate attention is paid to the competitiveness of our energy-intensive businesses.
‒ europe imports 53% of the energy it consumes.
i have supported this report recommending a number of measures which will help to reduce the cost of energy bills, decarbonise the european economy and reduce europe's dependence on imported fossil fuels.
the energy union must provide eu citizens with safe, sustainable and affordable energy.
building it will require concerted efforts by member states to reduce their dependence on energy imports by integrating their energy markets, improving security of supply, making the best use of existing and renewable sources and moderating demand, but it is essential to go beyond this framework of 28 regulations and so many energy bundles to be more efficient and secure the eu's energy future.
my group has played an important role in ensuring energy efficiency and renewable energy in the future european energy package.
we have laid the foundations for a much more comprehensive and ambitious approach to the integration of energy systems and solutions.
the paris agreement on the environment is the most ambitious, most compelling and most hopeful agreement ever to mitigate global warming.
with this agreement, almost 200 countries have taken a definitive step towards a low-carbon economy.
the same ambition is reflected in the report: towards a european energy union in recent years, the vulnerability of europe to disruptions in energy supply has been explicitly addressed on a number of occasions.
the eu today depends on the goodwill of foreign partners for half of its energy needs.
this dependence makes energy the achilles' heel of our society and economy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy supply is not affected by the crisis.
developing european energy security that ensures sovereignty and environmental objectives is a priority for a strong economic and political position.
i therefore support the ambitions of this report, which explicitly favours energy efficiency, renewable energy and the development of innovative, environmentally friendly energy sources, because a common greening of the european energy market will also have a positive impact on new employment.
shale gas) in the european union entails risks and adverse effects for the climate, the environment and public health, and jeopardises the achievement of the union's long-term decarbonisation target.
i believe that, given the limited capacity of unconventional fuels to meet the energy demand of the union in the future and the high investment and costs involved in their exploitation, hydraulic fracturing is not a technology of the future and i have therefore, together with others, urged member states not to engage in any exploration or exploitation of shale gas.
‒ the report makes it clear that we need a european and regional approach to linking energy networks between member states.
this is necessary to accommodate the fluctuations in renewable energy.
our delegation is also committed to energy efficiency.
the transition to a genuine energy market system is necessary.
parliament approved higher targets for renewable energy, efficiency and greenhouse gases.
although some of the elements do not agree with our views, the overall package is a clear signal on how the energy union should be shaped.
‒ i see the added value of a european energy union.
‒ without the free flow of energy across borders, there can be no real internal energy market in the eu.
the creation of electricity grids is essential to this, as it both promotes the spread of renewable energy and lowers electricity prices in europe.
parliament stated that renewable energy, improved energy efficiency, a sustainable energy mix that generates energy savings and an internal energy market that allows the free movement of energy are important means of ensuring a stable, secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive energy system across the union, which promotes the creation of quality jobs and wealth in a sustainable, future-oriented economy.
the resolution also stresses that electricity interconnection is one of the prerequisites for the completion of an integrated internal electricity market which, if well designed, will enable us to achieve our climate objectives, including the union's objective of becoming a leader in renewable energy.
investing in the integration of the european electricity market could reduce prices by at least eur 2 per mwh and thus save almost eur 40 billion per year by 2030. this interconnection is crucial, both to achieve our climate goals and to make europe more competitive with cheaper electricity.
the 10% interconnection target by 2020 is a very valuable contribution to the implementation of the energy union, but it can only be achieved if all member states achieve it at the same time.
europe can strengthen its independence from foreign energy suppliers by developing a finely-meshed integrated network of electricity highways across europe.
this strategy of interconnectivity ensures the security of energy supply.
it is also a way of making the best use of existing european energy resources and of developing a more coordinated internal energy market.
we are thus better able to resist all kinds of disturbances and an internal energy market will ensure better pricing, which in turn will be beneficial to the strength of european companies.
the development of energy hubs and energy highways will ensure that the growing share of energy from renewable energy sources is used in a more efficient way.
with the increasing number of energy prosumers generating energy locally and in remote areas from environmentally friendly energy sources, it is essential to ensure that the energy generated is not wasted.
north sea wind turbines will generate more than 8% of total electricity demand by 2030. then there is the need to make that energy available throughout europe.
while this 10% target by 2020 is a major objective, ambitious, evidence-based and regionally agreed complementary interconnection targets should be set for the medium term and certainly by 2030. it is now important that the commission and the member states give strong political support and approval to the energy network project in the north sea region.
‒ better connections to the electricity networks between member states are needed not only to improve the eu's geopolitical energy position, but also to achieve the climate and energy objectives.
the best available technologies should also be used to minimise the impact on the environment.
only then will it be possible to make the switch to renewable energy.
moreover, greater interconnectivity will enable us to distribute renewable energy more effectively throughout the european union.
technical measures and multiannual plans are essential tools in the sustainable management of our marine resources.
parliament called for the adoption of a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
parliament also recalls the objectives and principles of the new common fisheries policy reformed in 2013, such as environmental sustainability and the ecosystem approach.
the union plays a crucial role in the sustainable management of fish stocks and the preservation of the marine environment.
the necessary corollary to achieving sustainable fisheries is consistent and readable technical measures and multiannual plans.
‒ the new cfp promotes sustainable fisheries, namely through the conservation of fish stocks and long-term productivity.
a new structure for technical measures and multiannual plans will ensure the long-term sustainability of the fisheries sector and, moreover, contribute to achieving the most important objectives of the reformed cfp.
the most positive outcome of paris is the fact that nearly all states – and all states means also developing countries and emerging economies – are committing themselves to the necessary efforts to tackle climate change.
in that sense, this is the first universal climate agreement that we have.
because with the building blocks of the intended nationally determined contributions we will not build the climate-proof house we want, so extra effort will be necessary.
paris was not an end point; our work to build a carbon-free, renewable and circular economy begins now.
commissioner, the fact that the industry in europe in particular, but also the whole world, all the companies, the economy, the financial institutions, have been given a clear signal that we must say goodbye to the fossil technology, to the energy sector of the past.
this climate agreement is going to change the world.
it's the biggest step forward in climate science in 20 years.
now 37 countries have to take action on climate change, soon it will be 195. of course, the text could always have been better, but it is a historic step, as almost the whole world is committing to tackling climate change.
we have always based our policies on a two-degree rise in temperature and on the very outdated idea that we are the only ones fighting climate change.
flanders and belgium have been lagging behind on climate policy for years and will now have to accelerate.
almost 200 countries are going to implement national climate plans.
the new agreement is a back-up for sustainable business.
in the past week, countless new initiatives have been launched, releasing hundreds of billions of dollars in funding for research and sustainable projects.
what i see is that all the european policies adopted here have been based on the idea that we have to limit climate change to two degrees - by the way, they don't even do that.
there is one very important bright spot, and that is of course the climate agreement, with an incredibly good luxembourg presidency and an incredibly good commission working together.
the draft union list fails to address the issue of invasive alien species in a comprehensive manner, which would protect biodiversity and reduce and mitigate the impact that these species may have on human health or the economy.
invasive alien species pose a threat to biodiversity as well as to fishing and agricultural activities.
the establishment of such a list is an essential step in the european biodiversity strategy.
‒ i have again voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation adopting a list of invasive alien species of union concern, in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, which was adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in addition to my criticism of herbicides and gmos, which are harmful to people and the environment, i also regret that the commission has ignored the rejection of the act adopted by the envi committee.
i have already done so in the committee on the environment two weeks ago.
‒ i voted today in favour of this objection, in accordance with the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which opposed, on 1 december 2015, this draft implementing act authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize nk603xt25.
‒ i supported this report because it covers all aspects of eu-china relations and calls for both to work more closely together to address global challenges and threats, such as terrorism, illegal immigration, security, climate change and global financial and market governance.
these include terrorism, illegal immigration, security, climate change and global financial and market governance.
while china remains an important economic partner, we cannot ignore its social and environmental shortcomings.
parliament called on the commission to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules.
one billion people could be displaced by 2050 due to climate change.
i give special support to a comprehensive, sustainable and global solution to the mass exodus of refugees from conflict zones.
the complexity of conflicts, the scale of natural disasters, the increase in famines, the effects of climate change, the ebola crisis, the migration crisis, and so on, are pushing our humanitarian system to its limits.
the summit represents a unique opportunity to strengthen humanitarian assistance, to seek innovative solutions and to build instruments that are relevant to the sustainable challenges we face.
and the worst of it is that, in addition to the many armed conflicts, an estimated one billion people could be displaced by climate change by 2050, including from water shortages.
in addition, these industries are also faced with the challenge of driving forward their energy and environmental modernisation.
in order to ensure that the european base metals industry does not disappear from the industrial landscape of tomorrow, it is important that this report proposes measures to adapt the sector to the new climate, economic and social conditions and to set a good example in the effective and efficient use of energy and raw materials.
‒ i have of course approved this own-initiative report which aims at developing a sustainable european base metal industry an industry which has been hit very hard in recent decades and has lost thousands of jobs.
in this respect, i would like to stress the urgent need to maintain effective trade defence instruments and to implement them swiftly in order to counter unfair competition practices from third countries based on social and environmental dumping practices.
‒ i supported the report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry.
the base metal industry is vital to a whole range of downstream industries, including automotive, aeronautics, energy production, construction and packaging.
i therefore support the introduction of a carbon tax at the border.
this carbon dioxide-based contribution would be designed to put european producers of base metals, who are obliged to buy emission allowances, on an equal footing with their foreign competitors, who are exempt from this obligation.
such an approach would have the advantage of providing a universal solution allowing each state to decide sovereignly on the level of ambition of its climate policy, based on a careful impact assessment of the consequences.
in view of the economic and ecological challenges facing the steel sector, i welcome this report, which has the merit of formulating a series of proposals to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the european steel sector.
the carbon border adjustment scheme, which i voted for today, would allow the european union to develop a quality climate policy while preserving its competitiveness, putting it on an equal footing with countries that do not respect social and environmental standards.
while the recent cop21 climate conference produced an ambitious agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the future, the time needed to implement these measures must also be taken into account.
in the meantime, the conditions for equal competition are not met and the risk of carbon leakage from the european union remains and weighs on our industry.
i also want the money that would be obtained through the border adjustment system to be used, at least in part, for environmental initiatives and the fight against climate change.
this capacity adjustment has been so large that any recovery in european demand will result in a historic trade deficit in europe, generating dependency and loss of industrial know-how, which would inevitably affect downstream sectors such as automotive, construction and low-carbon technologies.
steel and aluminium are two significant examples of the difficulties encountered in these professions, which must simultaneously pursue their energy and environmental modernization, which would require an investment policy that few of them can afford today.
the discussions here have little to do with the development of a sustainable european base metal industry.
it was also very quickly known that european authorities were aware that the tests under controlled conditions did not match the actual pollutant emissions data.
it should identify possible malpractices, negligence, shortcomings and possible violations of european legislation relating to pollution problems in the automotive sector.
‒ we voted for an investigation into allegations that the commission failed to fulfil its obligation under article 14 (3) of regulation (ec) no 715/2007 to verify the test cycles used to measure emissions and, if they are no longer adequate or reflect the reality of emissions at global level, to adapt them so that they correctly reflect the emissions generated by the reality of driving on the road, despite reports of serious and persistent exceedances of the emission limit values for vehicles in normal use.
i am thinking in particular of tourism, financial services, the information society, the environment and natural resources, cooperation in the maritime and fisheries sectors and, last but not least, human rights.
the lifting of a ban on foreign direct investment by vietnam will create a positive investment climate.
secondly, the call for the eu to actively participate in the debate on the term 'climate refugee', including a possible legal definition of it in international law, is unrealistic.
over the past year, bosnia and herzegovina has taken steady steps, with the strong support of the union, on the european path in a difficult global and regional environment.
in view of the changed security environment in the eu's neighbouring countries and the increase in arms smuggling and illicit trade, stricter application of the eight criteria for conventional arms exports and better coordination at eu level are necessary.
in doing so, parliament followed the recommendation of the parliamentary committee on the environment, as formulated on 2 december last.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that it will stimulate innovation and the development of new varieties that can guarantee global food security, further tackle climate change and prevent monopolies within the plant breeders' sector.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am very concerned about the climate of civil war and the seriousness of the political situation, as well as the rapidly deteriorating humanitarian situation in burundi.
‒ virunga national park in north kivu is a unesco world heritage site for its habitats and rich biodiversity, which is unmatched in africa.
it called on the commission and the member states to work towards preserving the integrity of the park by strengthening their commitment to funding the conservation, economic development and sustainable diversification of the surrounding region, and asked the eeas to engage in diplomatic action to help the congolese government to abandon oil exploration and exploitation in the park.
i also express my deep concern at the irreversible damage that could be caused to virunga national park as a result of oil exploration and exploitation and call for measures to help protect the park as one of the last remaining gorilla reserves, to address the root causes of armed conflict and corruption, and to support sustainable development and peacebuilding strategies in the democratic republic of congo.
the illegal trade in raw materials and the exploitation and exploration of oil in virunga park are not only causing environmental damage and the destruction of the park, but also more violence and violation of human rights.
by focusing on sustainable forest management, economic development of the region, alternative energy and the fight against illegal logging, the integrity of the park can be maintained.