energy policy must be conceived today as an instrument of regional integration which will enable the member states, including bulgaria, to continue to support the european project while opening up the prospects of mutual benefits with the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean.
the amended legislation brings additional legal clarity by allowing countries such as bulgaria to ban the cultivation of gmos on specific grounds related to socio-economic reasons, specific environmental objectives, etc.
secondly, the regional perspective is crucial for sustainable stabilisation.
the bulgarian-turkish border is a difficult-to-access region and an ideal environment for smuggling and trafficking in human beings.
– a competitive europe also means europe with secure and reliable energy supplies.
bulgaria, similarly to latvia, has a particularly strong interest in energy diversification, which is a key aspect of a functioning energy union.
we have suggested the creation of a gas distribution hub on our territory in order to ensure better energy supply for the region.
a newly-created high level working group for cross-border diversification projects will sit in bulgaria next month, with which we hope to create a new momentum for better synchronisation of the european energy markets.
another important step for achieving energy diversification would be the creation of a common mechanism for negotiating gas contracts with external suppliers for the whole of the eu.
such a mechanism would give the europe a stronger, more united bargaining position and would prevent suppliers from using the fragmentation of the eu’s energy policy and markets to enhance monopolistic practices.
i think we need a donor conference to rebuild dombas, to modernize the strategic and energy structure of ukraine.
the issuing of death sentences, human rights violations, pressure on civil society organisations and the lack of freedom of expression, which has led to the arrest of students and journalists, have a destabilising effect on the democratic process and the socio-economic environment.
last but not least, events at the union's eastern border over the past year have demonstrated the need for new measures to ensure the eu's energy security.
the creation of a european energy union would help diversify and increase the energy sustainability of a number of european countries, including bulgaria.
although the text does not provide for any geographical pre-allocations of investment, it would be important to consider devising a mechanism to guarantee the balanced distribution of the projects, taking account of the differing economic conditions and investment environment across the member states.
ladies and gentlemen, 2015 is a crucial year for reaching a new international agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions and climate change.
the expiring kyoto protocol had a major flaw: the largest emitters (the us, china, india, russia) were not officially involved in global efforts to save the climate.
so in the run-up to the 2015 paris climate conference, it's worth taking all reasonable steps to get formal commitments from both these countries and all the economically powerful developing countries.
i ask again, is there a need for further waste of funds and how can this need be explained by the creation of a new expert group of this kind?
the decision of 25 january on the electoral law will not be enough to restore a climate of confidence for the rest of the electoral cycle.
that is why i believe that nuclear disarmament should be achieved gradually and only through international agreements and cooperation in this area, while continuing to promote the peaceful use of nuclear technology, because my first conviction is that there is no cleaner, safer and cheaper energy than nuclear.
the idea of a common energy policy is certainly useful and should be implemented.
however, i am more concerned about how the interests of the member states will be represented in this common energy policy.
to give you another example: the potentially useful green energy in my country, bulgaria, has become the reason for the electricity bills to be very high and unbearable for ordinary people.
therefore, mr commissioner, this energy policy, in addition to providing europe with various sources of energy, must also look at those that are potentially possible in europe itself, such as the development of nuclear energy, which for bulgaria, for my country, is one of the good opportunities for secure and cheap energy.
the need for an effective energy strategy to build the energy union is more evident than ever.
to overcome the existing over-reliance on external energy suppliers and their high prices, we need a sustainable single european energy system and a functioning internal energy market.
the key to energy security is precisely to overcome existing market fragmentation, develop a common functioning energy market and extensive cooperation at local, regional and european level.
to this end, we need to concentrate our efforts on developing standards for energy investment, on promoting the improvement of energy infrastructure and the use of renewable energy sources, on improving energy efficiency by reducing energy consumption, on addressing energy transmission challenges and on eliminating regulated pricing that limits consumers' freedom to negotiate prices with their suppliers.
however, i believe that the focus of our efforts should also be on protecting consumer rights, overcoming energy poverty and ensuring an open and competitive market for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises, as they are the backbone of the european economy.
i welcome the strategic framework for the energy union presented today by vice-president šefčovič.
moreover, there is talk of a fifth european freedom - the free movement of energy.
today we have an ambitious project with the ultimate goal of energy independence, affordable electricity and a competitive economy within the eu.
it was in bulgaria that we witnessed a gross attempt to circumvent european rules under russian dictation - that of the construction of the "south stream", in violation of the provisions of the third energy package.
i hope that the member states will find a way to show more solidarity in their energy policy and hence more common security.
– i welcome the commission’s framework strategy for a resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy.
i believe the strategy presents a holistic approach to the multi-facetted demands we european socialists and democrats make to a modern energy policy that equally delivers on climate, economic development and external security considerations.
we will work constructively with the commission in order to create a comprehensive energy union.
it will lower energy prices for citizens and industry, which will improve the european economy’s international competitiveness, will provide a reliable framework for investments and will contribute to jobs and growth.
also, the energy union will make markets less dependent on third states’ energy supply and supply disruptions.
such a union will be crucial to meet the eu’s 2030 climate target of 40% reductions of greenhouse gas emissions and makes europe a credible leader in the paris climate change negotiations this december.
ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the european commission on the rapid development of the strategic vision for a european energy union.
i consider this idea to be the biggest project on the road to eu energy integration since the 1951 coal and steel treaty.
europe does not have enough energy resources of its own.
it is time to come together for greater energy security, to achieve, through trust and genuine solidarity within the union, the provision of energy to citizens and industry at affordable prices and costs.
the ambitious target also requires ambitious solutions for the rapid physical interconnection of member states' energy systems, without which neither the completion nor the functioning of a single energy market is possible.
the success of the energy union depends on citizens feeling its benefits in an unambiguous way.
only such an energy union focus will ensure a successful move towards an energy-united europe.
i believe that women's equality will contribute to achieving sustainable growth in europe and i call for the systematic and consistent integration of the principle of gender equality in all our activities, structures, policies and priorities.
i support the idea of making such proposals in connection with various environmental initiatives and considerations, but they raise more questions than they answer than they permit.
long-term investment is an important tool for steering the european economy towards sustainable and inclusive growth, which should be in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 agenda.
the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) are the instrument that can ensure the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the european economy by mobilising and channelling private funds for long-term investment.
the implementation of this new investment facility will allow the financing of long-term projects in the fields of transport and social infrastructure (housing or hospitals), sustainable energy, education, research, small and medium-sized enterprises.
the successful implementation of the efsi will help to overcome the lack of investment in projects of eu relevance and contribute to the sustainable growth of the european economy.
‒ i voted against the application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund because i believe that this mechanism is badly designed and a waste of money.
but in a rapidly changing competitive environment, new and new challenges are emerging that europe must address.
i call on the commission to continue to monitor the independence, impartiality and objectivity of competition policy procedures, as they give consumers and businesses confidence in europe's development towards sustainable growth.
i would point out that the report highlights important trends in the energy sector, namely that the european gas market should develop towards building an energy union with fair and stable prices, improving the diversification of its energy sources and access to strategic infrastructures.
at the same time, i expect the authorities to make more efforts to improve the media environment and to detect and stop crimes against journalists.
at the same time, we expect montenegro to continue working on meeting the opening benchmarks set in challenging areas such as competition, the environment, climate change and food safety.
failure to deliver on these issues has damaged the sustainability of reforms.
i share your concerns that delays in setting a date for the start of accession negotiations have added to the frustration of the population in the country and also affected the sustainability of previous reforms as well as the leverage of the union as such.
it is of the utmost importance that there are continued efforts to improve the overall climate for cooperation and trust.
however, the socialist family is deeply concerned about the political climate in that country.
the problem is not just about the current, very sharp and dangerous crisis: the problem is that we have seen this before, in december 2012. then, with mediation assistance by the european institutions, which involved many members of the european parliament, the crisis was overcome, but not for good and not in a sustainable way, because it has now been reproduced in an even worse manner.
there are no steps to improve the political climate in the country, it is even worse.
i have the impression that the government and prime minister gruevski personally are deliberately moving the country away from its european path, manipulating citizens by maintaining a dependent media environment that helps them win elections.
political stability is needed to ensure sustainable cooperation, which will accelerate the european agenda of the republic of macedonia and lead to the opening of negotiating chapters for membership.
it is now of the utmost importance that kosovo continues with the key reforms that will help improve the economic environment.
they are linked to improving the overall investment and business ecosystem in the european union.
the new sanctions and dispute settlement mechanisms will provide the union with an effective tool to tackle issues such as overfishing, which threatens many native species, and unregulated and illegal activities that have a negative impact on the environment.
the reduction of abuses will ensure effective and sustainable development within the community, which is a very important objective at this time.
we do not agree with the inclusion of topics related to development, trade, fiscal policy, climate, refugee policy and asylum.
the full participation of libyan women must be ensured so that they contribute to sustainable peace and security for future generations.
it is clear that children are starting to use the internet at an earlier age and this requires us to ensure that they do not feel uncomfortable and that they are in a safe and secure environment.
the regions and the member states cannot afford to waste any more time.
their integration into the social and working environment continues to be one of the greatest challenges across the union, even though the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities was one of the first conventions ratified by the eu.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to raise a matter with you, namely the protection of nature, and in particular of forests as part of the environment, by giving you a specific example.
it is essential for the sustainable integration of young people into the labour market that curricula provide opportunities to combine knowledge with vocational skills, promote the development of entrepreneurial skills, harness the potential of new technologies and digitalisation to develop a wide range of skills.
the amendment of the fuel quality directive and the renewable sources directive is an important element of the series of measures proposed by the commission in the fight against global climate change.
i welcome the steps taken by the european commission with regard to the european union's biofuels policy and believe that so-called 'second generation' biofuels will contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, protecting the environment and the health of the citizens of the european union.
i welcome the final agreement reached on the amendment of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives, as it offers a realistic approach that will allow investment in renewable fuels in transport to continue.
‒ i supported the amendment of the fuel quality directive and the renewable sources directive, as i believe that in view of the high energy dependence of some member states on third countries, the european union needs to review the existing legal framework in this area.
if no action is taken, europe will face the serious challenge of becoming a continent that is seriously lagging behind in technology when it comes to connecting to sustainable fuels.
mr president, i supported this directive because i believe that a clean environment is a prerequisite for good public health.
i think that plastic bag pollution is a concern and that this problem needs a solution.
‒ i supported the second reading final agreement on the amendment of the directive to restrict the use of plastic bags with a wall thickness of less than 0.05 mm, because i hope that it will put an end to their excessive waste and unregulated disposal in the european union.
the fact is that plastic shopping bags are among the most polluting substances in the environment and they are a significant problem, especially for our aquatic ecosystem.
the new legislative measure, which is significantly improved in all respects compared to the commission's original proposal, obliges member states to ensure one of two conditions: that the average annual consumption does not exceed 90 plastic carrier bags per capita by 2019, or alternatively that they are no longer offered free of charge in the retail network by 2018. i believe that such measures have the potential to limit the negative impact of nylon envelopes on the environment and will lead to their more efficient and sustainable use.
sustainable harvesting and the full use of these non-timber raw materials are an opportunity to tackle acute problems such as high unemployment, depopulation and an ageing population, which are reaching critical levels especially in rural and mountain areas throughout the european union.
i therefore call on the european commission and the member states to work towards a strategy for the sustainable development of this potential.
‒ i supported the ep resolution on a new eu strategy for forests, which recognises their important social, economic and environmental role.
i am convinced that measures in this direction will contribute to the protection and promotion of the natural and cultural heritage as well as to sustainable (eco) tourism.
forest biomass will play an increasingly important role as a source of renewable energy in view of the growing demand for energy.
in this regard, research and innovation in the forestry sector should be promoted through european funds and programmes with a view to achieving rational use of biomass and the development of fast-growing energy crops.
the data show that each euro invested in research and innovation in the field of bioeconomy and sustainable use of raw materials under horizon 2020 will generate around eur 10 in value added.
these issues have become more important in recent years in connection with the change in the overall eu strategy on resources and the worsened security environment and problems concerning migrants to the eu.
i also realise that the role of member states and local authorities is crucial to achieving sustainable employment for young people abroad.
i believe that the key to ensuring sustainable youth employment is investing in quality education and in building transversal skills such as entrepreneurship, digital literacy and critical thinking.
the rapid implementation of programmes funded under the youth employment initiative will help to achieve our overall objective of accelerating the transition of young people from education to employment and helping their sustainable integration into the labour market.
‒ i voted against the discharge of the european economic and social committee for the implementation of the general budget of the eu, because my view and that of my group is that these decisions should be postponed, because it is important for us to see which european structures work effectively and do not waste the money of the european citizen, and to keep those in check who spend more money but do not do the job.
‒ i voted against the discharge of the committee of the regions for the implementation of the eu general budget because my view and that of my group is that these decisions should be postponed, because it is important for us to see which european structures work effectively and do not waste europeans' money, and to keep those under control who spend more money but do not do the job.
it is important for us to see which european structures work efficiently and do not waste europeans' money, and to keep track of those that spend more money but do not work.
it is important for us to see which european structures work efficiently and do not waste europeans' money, and to keep track of those that spend more money but do not work.
‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators because my position and the position of my group is that the agency needs to be supervised and controlled in terms of the expenditure and the results it achieves.
‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 of the european environment agency because my position and the position of my group is that the agency needs to be supervised and controlled in terms of the expenditure and the results it achieves.
‒ i welcome this joint resolution step as it is very important for us to support the proper implementation of the bangladesh sustainability pact.
‒ expo 2015 in milan, from 1 may to 30 october, will serve as a platform for the european union and its institutions to present their policies to combat the food crisis, promote the fight against food waste, promote healthy eating and more.
i supported the resolution because i believe that europe must speak with a united and strong voice in tackling the challenges of food production and redistribution and in combating food waste.
i join the call to the european commission for an ambitious international agreement to include food and food policy as measures to mitigate the effects of climate change.
an important step towards fulfilling our commitment is the harmonisation of vat rules for books and digital services, which will create the necessary enabling environment for both entrepreneurial mindset, public inclusion in europe and a solid sense of self-esteem for citizens of our continent.
the potential for green growth lies in the efficient use of resources to reduce the environmental footprint.
to this end, the eu and the member states should promote measures related to energy efficiency, renewable energy, waste management and emission reduction.
environmental sustainability in the activities of smes can be developed through instruments such as eco-design, the single european patent in the field of green technologies, eco-innovation in rural areas, etc.
this type of legislation creates trust: trust in our financial system; trust that we put our money to good use; and trust that europeans can thrive and develop in a fair environment that rewards initiative and prevents unlawful practices.
regional and global challenges underline the clear need to strengthen cooperation on priority issues such as energy security and diversification of supply, stability in the middle east and tackling irregular migration, which is particularly relevant in the context of the discussion of a new eu solidarity migration policy.
we attach particular importance to full cooperation with the turkish authorities in strengthening border security, combating trafficking in persons and goods, energy infrastructure and the economy.
but since it became an independent country in the last 25 years or so, macedonia has not been able to create such a climate with its neighbours, and to prove now on the european stage that it really wants good neighbourliness, because the imposition, i said in my statement, of an identity that does not correspond to historical truth there is no evidence in history for such cannot but give rise to conflicts in the present.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union has been working towards a single energy market for two decades.
three energy legislative packages have been adopted, but we are still far from this market because member states have almost complete sovereignty in energy policy.
the single energy market is not possible without free cross-border flows of energy subject to regulatory rules common to all member states.
a strong pan-european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators is therefore needed, with the necessary human and administrative resources to manage the single market and to ensure that the rules for the functioning of the energy market are uniform across the countries.
the acer has responsibilities not only to ensure the regulatory completion of the internal energy market with the relevant rules and regulations in cross-border energy exchanges, but also to coordinate the activities of national regulators in this regard.
the new european energy union, which was launched with a strong political drive to achieve greater energy security, requires significantly greater coordination and cooperation between member states for the interconnection of energy systems and for open and free energy trade between them.
the use of energy as a major foreign policy tool is a prerequisite for the crisis to spread and the effects to be felt in other parts of the region.
in this context, i support the rapid establishment of a strong european energy union.
madam president, as rapporteur for the imco opinion on this subject, i have made clear my position on the need to overcome the heavy dependence on external energy suppliers and the high prices they impose in order to achieve a functioning internal energy market.
one of the key elements for achieving these objectives is the improvement of energy infrastructure.
secondly, it is important economically, because the european union’s prosperity and security hinges on a stable and abundant supply of energy.
let me tell you the story of the country i know best, which has been active on all these levels in order to contribute to long-term energy security.
bulgaria is still dependent on russian energy supplies but did not give in to recent pressures and instead took a step forward by working together with the commission and the member states in creating the high level group on central and south eastern europe gas connectivity (cesec).
this regional approach is the basis to developing key infrastructure better and faster, bringing success to the improvement in our energy security and, finally, achieving a diversification of suppliers.
as i said before, and i would like to state it one more time, to me, european energy security means working together and staying connected – both politically, economically and technically.
the crisis in ukraine and the lack of a long-term solution for the region put in question the provision of reliable energy supplies.
diversifying energy supplies is more important than ever, because the eu's prosperity and security require rational and highly efficient use of energy.
the commission's natural gas stress tests have shown the vulnerability of the eu to dependence, and high energy costs are forcing industry to leave the eu, hampering europe's economic growth.
we need to focus on infrastructure development, the integration of sustainable energy sources and support for new projects.
the creation of a single energy market requires above all political independence, and this can only be achieved with an affordable and sustainable energy supply.
more and more often, when we talk about energy security, we have to recall the precedents of the interruption of gas supplies from russia.
the crisis in ukraine and the european commission's stress tests have sent a clear signal that policies need to be updated to ensure europe's energy security.
the european energy security strategy proposes a package of short- and long-term measures aimed at enhancing the eu's capacity to deal with a significant interruption of natural gas supplies during the winter season; strengthening emergency response and solidarity mechanisms, including coordination of risk assessments and emergency action plans, and protection of strategic infrastructure; reducing energy consumption; building a well-functioning and fully integrated internal market; diversifying external supplies and related infrastructure; improving the coordination of national energy policies and establishing common positions on external energy policy.
i am convinced that only coordinated action will be able to counter the potential risks to energy security in the union.
energy security is a major challenge for the eu today in the context of the crisis in ukraine, which has created a new geopolitical fuel situation, especially for the countries of central and south-eastern europe.
energy security therefore involves reducing dependence on russian gas imports to at least a manageable level.
this can be achieved by improving energy efficiency, building a fully integrated internal energy market and its single regulation, decarbonising the energy mix, building on reliable and emission-free nuclear energy combined with renewable energy sources and increasing local energy production.
the eu should support any sustainable local energy source that can contribute to our energy security.
a key prerequisite for achieving this objective is the strengthening of regional cooperation between member states, including energy community countries, with a view to better coordinating national energy policies, and full convergence in shaping pan-european positions in energy negotiations with third countries.
i strongly disagree with the drastic changes by some political groups to ban fossil fuels and nuclear power and to favor only energy efficiency and renewable energy.
we can only prevent parliament from taking a decision on one of the most important european priorities for the union's energy security.
‒ i voted in favour of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol because i am convinced that only by the joint efforts of all parties will we not only be able to make progress in the fight against climate change, but also send a signal to the international community, and in particular to the united states, canada, russia and japan, which have not ratified the amendment.
by voting in favour, the european parliament reaffirmed the commitments of the member states and iceland to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels by 2020. for our children to have a future, we must act now!
‒ i voted in favour of iceland's participation in the joint implementation of the member states' obligations under the kyoto protocol for the second period from 2013 to 2020, because, although iceland has formally withdrawn its application for eu membership, it has expressed its willingness to jointly implement our efforts to actively combat climate change.
together, we agree to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% below 1990 levels over the next five years.
this will send a strong signal internationally to the other parties to the kyoto protocol and an example of how different countries can come together and collectively fulfil their commitments to combat climate change.
‒ this week, the european parliament made an unconditional commitment to take ambitious action on climate change.
by adopting the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, the european union and iceland firmly state their commitment to reduce their emissions by an average of 20% below 1990 levels for the period 2013 to 2020. i am convinced that global climate change presents an unprecedented challenge to the international community, which must be met by responsible transnational action.
i believe that with this decision the european parliament is once again demonstrating not only the european union's willingness to tackle global climate change, but also a call for global leadership and partnership in this area.
and most importantly, the european union is thereby setting a high bar for the negotiations at the un climate change conference in paris at the end of 2015, where world leaders will discuss their commitments to keep global warming below 2 degrees.
corruption is a problem that affects long-term economic growth, sustainable development and equality in the union, and ultimately the interests of european taxpayers.
the report also omits the topic of energy and energy security and does not analyse the project 'russian stream'.
i voted against the report on the european energy security strategy because it says that the commission should have the right to intervene as a negotiating party in the conclusion of all energy contracts by national states.
the report also calls into question the safety and use of nuclear energy.
it has been proven that this energy is the cheapest ever invented and its price increase is nothing more than an artificially created phenomenon.
i should note here that after the unclear closure of units one, two, three and four of the kozloduy npp, bulgaria is left with only two working reactors, which, if not renewed, will be endangered as an energy center in the balkans and we will become an exporter of electricity to an importer from a non-european country turkey.
i believe that this is contrary to the energy security of the union and i oppose this report.
the region is a growing market with great potential for development and an important hub for energy and transport flows.
we must work to secure new energy suppliers and reduce our dependence on russian supplies not just in words but ultimately in deeds.
but addiction is not only energy, it's also corruption, my friends.
but if we only worked in such a swift and efficient way on other projects such as the digital single market or the energy union, europe would probably blossom not only through springtime but throughout the entire year.
we have passed many legislative measures in recent years and they are already producing positive results, but the psychological impact of the crisis continues to hamper europe's return to a sustainable economic growth path.
as politicians, we have a responsibility to create the right environment and to ensure that vital investments are directed towards those projects in the member states that will improve the living standards of citizens and create a better future for young people.
the fund also provides an additional guarantee to counter attempts to divide member states through various external economic, energy, cultural projects and financial incentives from third countries.
with continuity and efficiency, we can also support competitiveness for our companies, which will do business in a much more clearly-regulated environment.
i think energy should be part of this agreement.
the european union really needs to diversify its energy supply.
it is necessary to dispel this speculation and ensure that environmental protection standards, the health of european citizens and the right of states to regulate in the public interest are not compromised.
the economic crisis has led to a sharp decline in investment across europe, which requires a common and coordinated effort at european level to achieve sustainable economic growth in europe.
‒ countries’ societies and economic structures, and the dynamism thereof, benefit from environments which allow interaction between the public and private sectors; public-private partnerships (ppps) are a long-term tool used in government policies at international, national, regional and local level, there is no internationally recognised definition and comprehensive regulatory framework for them; we need to stimulate decent job creation, competitiveness and productivity inside the eu and in third countries; both smes and larger companies alike can provide unique private-sector know-how, experience and good practices, as well as networks involving public authorities in non-eu countries, effectively helping to deliver on sustainable development policies.
thus we expect to melt down the huge pile of backlogs and to reach a sustainable level by the end of 2016. in this regard, we appreciate the cooperation between the committee on budgets and commissioner georgieva in drafting the budget and in implementing the commission’s pledges at the beginning of this mandate.
the budget supports the political priorities: the energy union; the digital single market; the european programme for education, training, sport and youth; increasing competitiveness; support for farmers; and, of course payments to efsi.
in this regard, i support the council conclusion of 12 december 2014 on the need to strengthen the role of the private sector in the implementation of the future sustainable development goals.
only then will development finance produce a long-term and sustainable result.
turkey, iraq, lebanon, should stop the flow of funds to the islamic state from the sale of illicit energy sources; and internet service providers and social platforms should identify those who want to join the islamic state and extremist propaganda.
countries like russia are using the economy and energy as a tool for pressure and dependency, not for mutually beneficial cooperation, which is what it should be.
for us meps, the priority in the negotiations is to achieve a new dynamic in the european economy and to guarantee the opening of markets and access to capital for european businesses across the ocean, as well as the preservation of european standards in terms of competition, health, food quality, environmental and labour standards.
i think it is timely, in the european year of development and in the context of the increasingly dynamic changes in the political environment globally, to review the european union's neighbourhood policy, including with regard to the western balkans.
other areas of partnership are computer technology, solar energy, water challenges and agriculture.
‒ the commission proposal aims to contribute to the long-term sustainability of companies, create an attractive environment for shareholders and enhance cross-border voting to contribute to growth, job creation and eu competitiveness.
although i am a supporter of the idea of reducing greenhouse gases, this report puts forward concepts for the harmonisation of standards for all member states, without taking into account the specificities of some countries such as bulgaria.
unlike western european countries, bulgaria, as well as countries like romania, poland and the czech republic, have not had much experience in greenhouse gas trading.
in its current form, the measure may lead to possible shocks on the greenhouse gas emission allowance auction market, which may also have an impact on the price range.
‒ i voted against the adoption of the agreed market stability reserve of the co2 emissions trading scheme before the current period of its operation has expired.
today, as we struggle to achieve growth and a more competitive economy, higher energy prices will undermine the efforts of economic recovery and the better position of european companies on the world market.
i do not think it is justified to over-emphasise climate policies over growth policies when europe is neither the biggest emitter of co2 nor can climate targets be achieved without a global agreement and commitment from the biggest polluting countries.
so i think that the european institutions are acting hastily with the reform of the emissions trading scheme, with their desire to generate financial resources from this trade earlier for investments in low-carbon technologies.
thinking long-term strategy, in terms of budgetary efficiency, waste management and proper allocation of taxpayers’ money, it is crucial for maintaining a political equilibrium as well as ensuring economic longevity and productivity.
aside from the fact that i consider it to be of the utmost importance that we recognise the relationship between the efficient use of resources and minimizing waste, this report is still rather descriptive and prescriptive.
saving natural resources will not only preserve raw materials for future generations but will create multiple benefits such as reducing waste and creating new innovative business opportunities.
the launch of such a long-term project gives a clear signal of the european parliament's commitment to small and medium-sized businesses in europe and to a better investment climate in the eu in general.
for me, the most important thing is that, without a doubt, the measures to introduce unified capital markets will have a favourable effect on foreign investment and the business climate in bulgaria.
finally, the report also focuses on the building of a shared area of security and stability, which also involves joint energy infrastructure projects and investments in job creation, particularly for young people.
europe can become a unique ecosystem of innovative enterprises if we jointly implement successful models to support entrepreneurs in all member states.
they improve their access to sustainable jobs, help them to be self-employed and teach them to better understand the needs of their future employers.
and the third word is business, because big corporations can help small companies and new projects with know-how and experience, and we here, our job is to create the most appropriate environment for entrepreneurship to flourish.
being entrepreneurial also helps us achieve sustainable employment and reveal our full potential.
to encourage, help and support youth entrepreneurship we need a sustainable approach – we cannot achieve that with a single instrument.
it requires sustainable, purposeful, long-term actions.
i believe that the european parliament should be united in taking the measures to support family businesses that the report specifically sets out to create a unique ecosystem of thriving businesses in all eu member states.
the blue economy should focus on sustainable economic activities that create jobs and contribute to overcoming the asymmetries between the different european regions.
it is our duty to provide a suitable learning environment that develops the skills and talents of young people.
i am of the opinion that we should stimulate the potential of the european cultural routes of the council of europe, because this will help to develop sustainable cultural tourism.
such an approach is not only necessary for achieving sustainable cultural dialogue and mutual understanding, but is also a prerequisite for enhanced social, economic and territorial cohesion.
to maintain a well-functioning, efficient and healthy economic environment, which ensures a more attractive european market and guarantees the preservation of our cultural heritage, less administrative burden is needed.
the aim of this own-initiative report by ms christine westphal is to take a broader look at the challenges facing eu policy and to outline the guidelines and boundaries of a future sustainable urban development policy.
this makes urban areas the main engine of our economy, and it is therefore necessary for the european union to create sustainable policy adapted to the needs of these areas in order to stimulate and facilitate their progressive and positive development.
the return of iran to world diplomacy allows the european union to solve its main energy problem for a larger volume of gas supplies from russia to europe.
i really believe very strongly in the need to build an ecosystem of strategies at the european level, including measures like education reform, support for entrepreneurship, improving labour mobility, as many of my colleagues have mentioned, within europe, in order to be really much better prepared for the challenges not only of the 21st century, but also of the 22nd century.
ppe) mr president, commissioner, i am pleased that we have the opportunity to discuss the sustainability of health systems in europe.
specific commitments are needed to implement structural reforms that ensure not only financial sustainability but also equal access for european citizens to quality healthcare adequate for the 21st century.
the ageing of europe's population is a fact and we have a duty to provide the elderly with a deservedly positive environment and to fight vigorously against their discrimination in society.
i voted for mr van de camp's report because it sets out in depth and detail all the main points, proposes alternatives to deal with the many challenges we face and presents short, medium and long-term measures for the sustainable development of this sector.
we need a perfect regulatory framework that promotes social entrepreneurship, stimulates innovation in the sector and ensures sustainability and security.
first of all, i believe that to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, we need to invest in education and skills, in developing talents and creating opportunities for fulfillment in life.
these issues are becoming more and more important nowadays in view of the worsening security environment and the problems of migrants coming to the eu.
secondly, the promotion of local and regional traditional products is important not only for ensuring fair remuneration of local producers but also for creating the conditions for the development of sustainable cultural tourism.
this is an important precondition for the long-term and sustainable impact of investment, as well as a precondition for true european solidarity.
despite the eu's continuing efforts to reduce global poverty and their effectiveness, further action is still needed to achieve sustainable and balanced development at global level.
decentralisation of cooperation would help to form a comprehensive and effective approach capable of covering the three main dimensions of development social, economic and environmental.
the worsening security environment and the migrants’ problems are a wake-up call for action.
despite the difficult political environment, the turkish side bears the brunt of the ongoing conflict and refugee wave, and the government has responded in the most adequate and responsible way to ensure the security of more than two million people.
‒ the european parliament, aware of the seriousness of the problem of high levels of environmental pollution, adopted a legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the limitation of harmful emissions into the air.
despite significant reductions in harmful emissions in recent decades, pollution levels in some parts of europe are still alarmingly high.
the directive focuses in particular on medium combustion plants, because they are the only ones not covered by european regulation and because of their growing influence as a factor responsible for pollution.
medium combustion plants should be designed and operated in a way that promotes energy efficiency and their operation should be subject to control by the member state.
i am convinced that this directive is the right step towards the overall objective of the safety and well-being of european citizens and the careful balance between consumer health, environmental protection and economic activity in europe.
‒ ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of legislation to limit emissions from medium-sized combustion plants (from 1 to 50 mw), for which there were no environmental limits until now.
over 143 000 such installations are in operation in the european union and make a significant contribution to air pollution by nitrogen and sulphur oxides and dust.
for existing installations with a heat capacity of up to 5 mw, the maximum emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and dust will be effective from 2025. the smallest installations, those with a capacity of 1 to 5 mw, most of which belong to small enterprises, will have to start complying with the limits from 2030. this provides sufficient time to plan and find the means to modernise the plants.
taking into account the statistics on air pollution in a number of cities in our country, the introduction of these restrictions will undoubtedly contribute to improving air quality, to healthier living conditions for citizens and especially children.
it will definitely create an overall regulatory environment that strikes the right balance between managing risk and supporting growth.
at a time when we are building a european energy union, we are demanding a united voice on energy security, we have clear priorities to follow in relation to the vulnerable region of south east europe, the corporate bargaining for nord stream 2 is putting the pan-european energy policy to the test.
'nord stream 2' clearly demonstrates that much greater coordination is needed between member states in energy relations with third-country suppliers, while avoiding the reduction of energy security in some regions of the european union at the expense of corporate interests of companies in other regions.
i support the objectives of the proposal to update the existing framework to the dynamically changing environment of electronic payments, taking into account in particular the development of e-commerce to further develop a broad eu market for electronic payments that will enable all market participants to benefit from the benefits of the eu internal market.
in my view, the various aspects of the unrealistically high 2030 targets and the mortgaging of public money for the green climate fund (gcf) are not only unattainable but also harmful to the economies of the member states.
the abolition of roaming charges is also a decisive step towards the creation of the digital single market, which is one of the eu's grand projects, alongside the creation of a european energy union.
however, i do not think it is appropriate for the european commission to conduct this investigation, despite the violations of the european directives on maximum emissions from cars.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because the european union is a guarantor of high environmental standards and if decisive action is not taken, the current scandal risks damaging the reputation and competitiveness of the entire sector.
unfortunately, the council decision to make some cuts both in commitment and payment appropriations does not correspond to the political priorities nor to the unfavourable environment.
in relation to the ongoing crisis affecting european farmers and in order to support the dairy sector, we have proposed increasing funding by eur 500 million under the heading sustainable growth: natural resources, in line with the measures announced by the council and the commission in september, thus supporting the main goals of the budget – to boost innovation, create jobs, deal more effectively with migration and strengthening the global role of the european union.
achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth goes through a clear commitment to invest in quality and accessible education for all, and through providing opportunities for young people in europe to achieve their potential.
eu cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy have until recently been the main tools for achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the countries of the union.
‒ ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report by mrs herling on the introduction of national ceilings for emissions of six major pollutants - sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds, ammonia, methane, and dust particles (less than 2.5 micrometres) - to be achieved between 2020 and 2030. i would stress, however, that i voted against the texts on the inclusion of methane and ammonia in this legislation, in order to protect the interests of farmers who have recently been exposed to too many risks.
but methane is essentially a greenhouse gas, and there are already limits on it in climate legislation, and any duplication of standards causes chaos and new difficulties for the people and businesses affected.
despite the acknowledged need to limit harmful emissions, which kill hundreds of thousands of people every year, legislation must be commensurate with the real possibilities and costs of implementing it.
in order to create the conditions for sustainable growth in europe, it is necessary to promote cultural tourism as a driver for sustainable economic and social development at local and regional level.
only then will we create the right digital environment that encourages innovative business thinking and delivers the best services to our customers.
the isa2 programme is an effective and necessary successor to isa and will provide the necessary changes towards a more digitised environment.
the commission's behaviour is indeed hypocritical and undermines the confidence of the citizens of europe in the european commission and in the building of a future common energy market and union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is commendable that the commission is continuing to work at a high pace on the energy union.
the backbone of the energy union is undoubtedly the creation of a single energy market, which is currently almost completely fragmented.
in this respect, the most rapid results are achieved through the targeted creation of regional energy markets.
the first state of the energy union report shows the importance of building a future-oriented energy strategy.
one of the most important elements of this long-term strategy must be energy efficiency, because only through reduced energy consumption can europe achieve true independence, which is important both economically and geopolitically.
i welcome the commission's decision in 2016 to come up with a new eco-design plan that will not only improve the circular economy but also help energy efficiency in the member states.
bulgaria has adopted a bgn 1 billion national energy efficiency programme.
this will not only lead to lower energy consumption, thermal comfort and a higher quality of life for citizens, but also reduce energy dependence on external sources.
improving energy infrastructure is another priority for the bulgarian government, which is why for us the inclusion of a large number of projects in the adopted list of projects of common interest is an extremely positive signal.
i call on the commission to continue consistently supporting these infrastructure projects in the country and the region until they are fully implemented in order to achieve our energy policy objectives.
we all know that the european union has one of the highest environmental standards in the world.
education and environment are the factors that shape an individual's views and attitudes toward others and the world.
in september 2015, world leaders adopted a new set of sustainable development goals, which will be followed by all countries, including the 28 eu member states.
we cannot achieve true sustainable development without investing in those who will actually support it – today’s children, everywhere.
– cohesion policy is probably the strongest eu instrument to fight inequality and support sustainable territorial development in its regions.
i believe we must continue to be a leading global actor in the fight against poverty, in promoting sustainable economic, social and environmental progress in developing countries, because that is the guarantee of lasting peace and stability.
that is why i called for the establishment of an annual structured high-level dialogue to enable us to meet common challenges in a more sustainable way.
since the year 2011, the ran has produced policy recommendations as well as practical guidance and training material to better prevent and address radicalisation, on schools and the prison and probation environment, on the foreign terrorist fighter phenomenon, and on the development of counter-narratives.
at the same time, policies to decarbonise the economy impose a burden of additional carbon costs and high energy prices, which undermines the competitiveness of this industry.
the fight against climate change must culminate in paris with the creation of a common environmental regime to reduce emissions, in order to prevent the phenomenon of carbon leakage outside the eu.
free allowances for emissions from sectors at risk of loss of competitiveness are maintained, innovation and efficiency in industry are encouraged.
exceeding the budgetary ceilings could call into question the sustainability of the union budget, and spending all available funds provided for in the flexibility instrument would hamper the union's ability to respond to other instances of 'unforeseen circumstances' in the coming years.
together with the implementation of the association agreement, this is key to enhancing the resilience and sustainability of the country.
at the same time, it should be more agile and allow a higher degree of responsiveness to the changing parameters of the dynamic environment.
the resolution is comprehensive on the one hand it draws attention to the current economic and social situation in the country and in particular to the strong economic growth in recent years and the significant reduction in poverty, and on the other hand it criticizes environmental problems such as deforestation and issues related to indigenous communities.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing.– the circular economy (ce) package is a forward-looking step, an excellent example of the policies we need to adopt in order to tackle challenges like climate change, job creation, economic and social development.
through the circular economy, we can achieve eur 600 billion for eu businesses, create 580 000 jobs and reduce eu carbon emissions by 450 million tonnes per year.
in view of all the other undoubtedly worrying issues, i think this debate is completely unnecessary, it is a waste of time, a waste of effort, with one sole purpose - to make another pointless criticism of the government of viktor orbán.
the rest is a waste of time, the rest is largely, ladies and gentlemen, empty talk and hypocrisy.
tax evasion siphons away money that could be invested in productive resources needed to diversify the economy and address social and environmental problems.
we must therefore aim at both reducing greenhouse gas emissions and reducing the travel time of people to and from their workplaces.
so far, no other way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions has been found than to switch from conventional fuels to biofuels or electricity.
i support this report and hope that it will lay the foundations for the creation of sustainable urban mobility, which will lead to less pollution, shorter travel distances and, of course, fewer road deaths.
‒ today, the european parliament adopted a resolution calling on member states and the commission to promote sustainable urban mobility.
the approach aims to move towards resource-efficient transport systems and to significantly reduce pollution and congestion in cities.
– sustainable urban mobility is an important element of improving citizens’ quality of life, strengthening the economy and, thus, achieving a more sustainable development on a regional and european level.
that is why i am in favour of the report and the dedication of part of eu funds for sustainable urban mobility projects.
and fourthly, the reform will bring modernised rules and increased legal certainty by adapting trade mark rules to the modern business environment and clarifying trade mark rights and their limitations.
the european microfinance facility progress is an opportunity that all member states should seize to build a positive impact on their local economies, boosting youth employment and providing sustainable jobs for disadvantaged people, immigrants and others.
i supported the report because, despite being a young country with limited resources, saint lucia has managed to achieve and even exceed some of the millennium development goals, demonstrating its commitment to fundamental rights while seeking to create an enabling environment for investment and private sector development.
in an increasingly competitive environment, the increase in the number of trademark applications both at national and eu level and the increase in the number of trademark users demonstrate their crucial role in terms of market success and commercial value.
it is important that fisheries ensure sustainable economic, environmental and social benefits.
there's a lot of talk about renewables and energy efficiency, but no mention of a nuclear power plant that's proven to be clean and as cheap as possible.
we don't comment on this energy and we try to dismiss it as a possible step towards stopping dependence on one side or the other when it comes to energy dependence.
– europe imports 53% of its gross inland energy consumption and i believe energy security, such as the need to diversify energy sources and supply routes, is a vital part of building a strong and sustainable european energy union.
the completion of the internal energy market, which could bring net economic benefits for europe of between eur 16 and 40 billion each year, requires various initiatives to be accomplished.
even if this were to change, the electricity they produce is unlikely to be energy efficient and meet the environmental requirements and standards that the eu is strictly trying to enforce.
although this objective seems too small for the larger goals of creating an integrated energy market, it reflects the current realities in the union's energy sector.
i support the regional approach of working to increase connectivity between neighbouring countries, which can better identify which connections are the most priority and have the greatest impact on their energy security and on the single regional electricity market.
central and south-eastern europe needs more cooperation and coordination in building regional grid infrastructure that makes the best use of both the existing large electricity generation capacity and the huge and largely untapped potential for renewable energy.
however, i note that the connectivity ratio criterion in relation to installed capacity in the member states is one-sided and does not reflect the objectives of energy security and a single energy market and more parameters should be selected in the future to track energy connectivity in the eu.
of course, we must protect biodiversity, adopt a set of measures that do not allow invasive alien species to disrupt the balance of ecosystems.
the protection of the environment and of biological diversity cannot be underestimated or derogated from by economic, political or any other interests.
europe's nature and biodiversity must be preserved for future generations, and the spread of invasive alien species must be strictly controlled and specific measures taken to maintain the balance.
but we must not succumb to the yoke of this pressure, because there are no guarantees about the effects of these gm foods and feed on the environment, human health and lives.
it is necessary, above all, to seek constructive dialogue with the authorities to improve the human rights situation in the country, as well as to address the deterioration of the environment.
however, i regret that the report does not propose a more in-depth reflection on the application of international humanitarian law in the context of humanitarian crises such as those linked to terrorist groups, and a reflection on an appropriate status for displaced persons as a result of the effects of climate change.
the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change are of paramount importance for the community, but also for the rest of the world.
for this reason, and because a number of other countries have access to much cheaper energy resources, i.e.
cheaper end-products, we need to focus this industry on the use of energy-efficient and innovative production processes.
- mr. and mrs. president, ladies and gentlemen, today we voted on the resolution on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, in which the steel sector is both the largest producer of base metals and the one most exposed to the risks of losing competitiveness and relocating production to third countries.
the aim of the resolution was to protect this industry with the tools that are permitted and enforceable in the eu, to enable a smooth transition without disruption to a sustainable, environmentally friendly and cost-effective industry, with a product that is competitive on the world market and with technological innovation that is in line with the goals and challenges of the 21st century.
i am disappointed that parliament has not given adequate support to the use of the border correction mechanism, which could as a temporary and targeted measure protect the industry from external competitors that do not respect the eu's high environmental standards.
the paris agreement on climate change does not automatically mean that all the world's metal producers will operate on the same environmental standards from tomorrow.
in this inhuman and intolerant international environment the eu should step up as a champion of human rights.
we recently witnessed the un climate conference in paris, where for the first time, an agreement was reached to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.