madam president, on 6 january 2015, turkey, in continuing its illegal actions, issued a new directive
madam prime minister, energy is the main pillar of the 'juncker investment package', as it has been called.
at the same time, energy and the energy union are a strategic objective for the whole of europe.
one of our member states, the republic of cyprus, whose one third of its european territory is occupied by turkey, is trying to extract and exploit natural gas and energy for the strategic interests of the european union itself.
the countries of the eastern mediterranean can together be a source of energy for the european union.
pakistan's children, boys and girls, have the right to education in a safe environment and the pakistani government has an obligation to guarantee this right.
the european union must persist in its efforts to set new targets for the effective fight against climate change.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
to achieve this objective it is very important to promote new measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
only then will developing countries be able to adapt to the new climate changes.
it is equally important that the european union takes more initiatives to develop renewable energy sources and tackle energy ...... (the president interrupts)
mr president, for forty years turkey has occupied a member state of the european union, it has occupied european territory, with tragic consequences, such as the 200,000 greek cypriot refugees, who are the only european citizens who are refugees.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's communication on the energy union contains omissions and problematic references.
it is important to start with concrete proposals to tackle energy poverty and ensure equal access to cheap energy for all.
the commission cannot claim a strengthened role when the european union has so far been unable to break the energy isolation of the member states and regions of the european union.
the commission cannot ask for increased powers when it has so far failed to ensure the energy security of the union, while at the same time many member states are facing serious problems in their energy supply.
finally, it is a major omission to make any substantive reference to the need to exploit the deposits of the eastern mediterranean, and in particular those deposits located in a member state such as cyprus, which are important for strengthening energy security in europe today.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, mr juncker, energy is not a commodity to be used for profit for the benefit of monopolies and multinationals.
the energy union must therefore first of all combat energy poverty, ensure equal access for all to cheap energy and promote energy infrastructure and interconnections for the benefit of the people.
the united left will oppose the creation of an energy union that serves private interests and exacerbates inequalities and exclusions.
secondly, the proposal to inform the commission in advance of member states' energy agreements with third countries is totally contrary to our position, since it limits the sovereignty of the states and their role, but also limits national flexibility in the formation of efficient multi-dimensional transnational energy relations.
the european council must first of all promote concrete measures to break the isolation of the member states and promote measures to deal effectively with the problems of energy supply.
we must realize that for an energy union to work positively it must go hand in hand with the end of neoliberal austerity policies and the promotion of a social, development policy.
s & d) and the mr president, we are talking today about energy union and energy security, and of course we all have in mind the european union's great dependence on russia and the geopolitical games being played there, which of course have a negative impact on our family here in the european union.
there is no pressure on turkey to fulfil its contractual obligations, apart from the fact that turkey is thereby affecting the energy development of the region as a whole, and the energy security of the european union.
the council conclusions also mention the importance of exploiting indigenous energy sources.
the same omission is found in both the commission communication on the energy union and the communication on energy security.
the european union's intention to create the energy union must aim at ensuring energy security for all eu countries.
the european council rightly stressed the eu's obligation to protect the energy reserves of its member countries, which are also the eu's own energy reserves.
it is therefore a fundamental obligation of the eu to protect in every way possible the energy reserves located in the exclusive economic zones of member countries.
the european union must, if it really means the european energy union in practice, do everything possible to safeguard europe's energy reserves and send a clear message of severe sanctions to turkey.
the proposal from turkey for joint study of the archives by armenians and turks is, in my view, going to lead to no other result than the waste of another century of debate on this subject, to nowhere.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the need to develop and support renewable energy sources in transport is more urgent than ever.
further increasing the contribution of renewable energy sources requires parallel policies, i.e.
it is also very important to add measures to ensure the promotion of renewable energy sources at the lowest possible cost to consumers as well as measures to support small producers of renewable energy sources.
finally, new projects and investments financed by the european union in the transport sector must take account of environmental protection, support the low-carbon economy and promote renewable energy sources, but also energy efficiency measures.
‒ the the use of renewable energy sources (res) has significant positive benefits for the environment, the economy and people.
the reduction of the use of polluting fossil fuels and their replacement by renewable energy sources must be a key eu objective.
the use of renewables, particularly today when their cost is absolutely competitive with that of less clean forms of energy, is imperative and we must create a substantial package of incentives and facilities for further development and promotion of renewables.
i believe that through support for renewable energy sources from the european investment programmes, we can also combat the energy poverty that affects many eu citizens.
the benefits of the widespread use of renewable energy sources are multifaceted and can be extended to all sectors of the economy and society.
‒ the the need to develop and support renewable energy sources is more urgent than ever.
further increasing the contribution of renewable energy sources requires parallel policies such as promoting appropriate infrastructure, streamlining renewable energy support schemes and exploiting opportunities for international cooperation.
measures to ensure the promotion of renewable energy sources at the lowest possible cost to consumers, as well as measures to support small producers of renewable energy sources, should be promoted.
new projects and investments funded by the eu in the transport sector must also take account of environmental protection, support the low-carbon economy and promote renewable energy sources and energy efficiency measures.
‒ the if we study the evidence on the use of plastic bags and on their impact on the environment and, by extension, on human health, then we realise the need for effective measures to reduce their use.
we have, in particular, firstly, 1.2 trillion plastic bags every year; secondly, each european uses on average about 200 bags, most of which end up in the garbage; thirdly, 100 billion tonnes of plastic pollute the seas and account for 90% of marine pollution; and fourthly, plastic remains in the environment for 500 to 1000 years.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of human health is a step in the right direction.
‒ the plastic bags are one of the most important sources of pollution in modern society and the marine ecosystem.
in 2010 alone, over eight billion plastic bags were turned into waste in the eu.
after 40 years of european waste legislation, the existing legislation marks the beginning of binding measures at european union level to reduce waste production.
the new european regulation, i believe, is a quick and effective way of drawing up a comprehensive strategy to deal with the consequences of the uncontrolled use of plastic bags for the environment and marine habitats.
‒ the the new legislation on the use of plastic bags, which includes strict measures to limit their use, is an important measure to reduce waste, and in particular plastic, which will help reduce environmental pollution.
it is clear to us that this measure must be part of an integrated strategy for waste management and environmental protection.
‒ the climate change and its impact on the environment are a major concern.
we consider it necessary to take measures to reduce co2 emissions, particularly in international maritime transport, which remains the only mode of transport not included in the commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
however, we think that the eu's basic policy on tackling climate change and the notion that the solution can be found through market mechanisms is wrong, especially when we consider that the anarchic operation of these mechanisms, driven only by enrichment, is precisely what has made these problems so enormous.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
first, the report calls for measures to implement the millennium development goals; second, it highlights the right to healthy food, housing, property and education and points to the need to safeguard these rights; third, it recognises that investment and trade agreements have devastating consequences for food security when the long-term leasing or sale of arable land to private investors results in local populations being deprived of access to productive resources; and, finally, it states that the sustainable eradication of hunger will not be achieved simply by providing enough food for all but only by allowing small farmers to grow and feed their crops on the land.
education and training of nursing staff, strengthening of patients' rights, development of a learning-from-mistakes climate).
significantly , employment in environmental goods and services increased by 20% over the period 2007-2011 despite the crisis .
it is noted that the global market for environmental goods and services is worth €1 trillion per year and is expected to double by 2020, creating huge opportunities and potential for europe's smes.
as regards the environmental sustainability objective, it is not promoted, as it is claimed, to protect the environment by ensuring a better quality of life for people but is used to achieve the ultimate goal of developing the eu's competitiveness.
we disagree with the terms of the acer mandate and in particular with the implementation of the third energy package.
in the energy market in general, and even more so in the energy market, state control is very important and must play a strong regulatory role.
the report we are being asked to discuss, however, unfortunately does not build bridges in this direction but, on the contrary, perpetuates the climate of the cold war and the contradictions.
we consider energy to be a social development asset to which we must all have equal access and responsibility.
the first priority must therefore be to combat energy poverty.
the gue will not support the promotion of an energy policy which is controlled by the commission, limits the sovereignty of states and reduces national flexibility in shaping multi-dimensional and efficient international energy relations.
the commission cannot even ask for increased powers when there are serious problems with the energy supply of the member states and when the energy isolation of many member states and regions from the large energy networks of the union continues.
to address these problems, we welcome the proposals to exploit indigenous gas energy sources in the eastern mediterranean and to create a mediterranean gas hub by developing lng, in order to exploit the potential created in the region for the energy security of the union.
madam president, do you not think that in order to finally be able to draw up an integrated energy strategy, the european union should not only focus on the mediterranean and the eastern mediterranean, where there are proven energy reserves, but at the same time the european union should start investing in energy infrastructure, particularly in the eastern mediterranean, using cyprus, greece and israel, but also other countries which seem to have the opportunity and the potential to become an energy enabler for the european union?
the commission madam president, i think it is an undeniable fact that the european union is really energy dependent and that it has a constant economic bleeding from the energy sector of some 400 billion euros a year, which is really shocking.
the second reliable and important solution is for the european union to exploit its own energy sources.
it is for this reason that if the european union really has the political will and determination to open up energy corridors and solve the problem of energy dependence and costs, it must invest in energy infrastructure and - i am also awaiting a reply from the commissioner on this subject - in the eastern mediterranean, cyprus, greece, israel, but we are also telling any other country that it has the opportunity and the capacity to offer energy resources, which are european energy resources and we must exploit them here and now and not tomorrow.
the case for reducing greenhouse gas emissions concerns us all, because it affects the health and quality of life of all citizens of the planet.
eu member states commit to reduce and limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013-2020 to 80% of emissions.
this commitment was set on the basis of the total greenhouse gas emissions permitted for the period 2013-2020 under the eu climate and energy package.
i believe that we all have a responsibility towards the deterioration of climate conditions and we must respond to the call and the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by all means.
‒ the the protection of the environment must be strengthened.
in this context, the legislative proposal for the formal ratification by the european union of the second commitment period (2013-2020) provided for in the kyoto protocol on climate change is helpful in this regard.
in particular, reducing combined greenhouse gas emissions will improve the lives of citizens in many countries.
the decisive step towards improving environmental conditions will be taken when neoliberal policies are ended and the anarchic development and the over-exploitation of the environment by the big multinational corporations for profit are stopped.
in the meantime, we shall support any appropriate efforts to improve environmental conditions.
‒ the reducing combined greenhouse gas emissions with the ultimate aim of reducing the increasingly severe climate change is a positive step towards improving environmental conditions.
it is clear to us that environmental destruction is caused mainly by the lawless activity of large corporations, which, in order to maximize their profits, sacrifice the environment, transferring the burdens (social, economic, etc.)
the eu must first of all change course, stop promoting neoliberal policies and put barriers in the way of the free market if it is to take real steps towards improving environmental conditions.
we also consider it important that the eu member states, and all states in general, take concrete action, according to their particular circumstances and capabilities, to put an end to the violent exploitation of the environment.
‒ 'the european union, which is currently in an energy stalemate, has the potential and the opportunity to exploit cyprus and its natural resources in the eastern mediterranean.
in this way the eu serves both its energy objectives and its geostrategic interests .
in addition, it will be able to exploit the energy axis cyprus-greece-israel which has enormous energy potential where europe can really benefit from energy and gain access to both the eastern mediterranean and the middle east.
it is very important and necessary to include cyprus and the eastern mediterranean in the eu's energy plans.
the eu must also move swiftly with energy investments in the eastern mediterranean region, making use of the eu's 315 billion euro investment plan.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
it will also reduce energy costs, reduce energy dependence while increasing investment and creating new jobs.'
‒ the the strategy proposed for energy security is essentially a strategy of private interests and exacerbates inequalities and exclusions.
the gue/ngl is choosing a different path of real development, where energy is a public social good to which everyone must have equal and cheap access.
these proposals limit the sovereignty of states and reduce national flexibility in shaping multi-dimensional and efficient international energy relations.
the report also fails to address the problem of energy poverty and promotes the use of nuclear energy, which poses enormous risks to man and the environment.
s & d) and the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i know of a country, our member state, cyprus, which is threatened by a third country and has energy resources.
we also stress that private investment and financing appear to be the driving force behind sustainable development, which in developing countries is estimated to be around 5% in the coming years.
‒ correctly on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme, asks the commission to submit a new proposal if it intends to make substantial amendments or to replace it with a new text.
‒ we agree with the draft agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and the european atomic energy community, on the one hand, and the swiss confederation, on the framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020' and on the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community, which complements the 'horizon 2020' programme;
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
‒ we support the green growth initiative, stressing that the transition to sustainable societies and economies, including sustainable consumption and production patterns, can lead to opportunities for new quality jobs and opportunities to transform existing employment into green jobs in almost all sectors, as well as new green high-tech sectors such as renewable energy.
it is also stressed that the commission should provide funding for innovation and blue growth to finance basic research, vocational training, job creation, start-ups, smes, social economy enterprises, cooperatives, education, poverty reduction in coastal areas, biotechnology development, transport links, energy interconnection, coastal access to broadband services, environmental protection and the commercialisation of innovative products, services and partnerships.
investments in the blue economy should focus on, among other things, eco-innovation, resource efficiency, the circular economy, nature conservation, protection of the marine and coastal environment, climate change mitigation and adaptation and sustainable use of resources.
equally important is the establishment of an appropriate financial framework to stimulate innovation, the sustainable development of the blue economy and job creation.
‒ it is necessary for the european commission to promote the strengthening of the entrepreneurial spirit across the eu, taking into account the importance of family businesses in the eu economy, and to create the necessary environment to foster entrepreneurial excellence.
it is necessary to strengthen competitiveness and grow the european economy by 2020 by drawing up a roadmap of measures that can strengthen the economic environment and the development of family businesses in the eu.
‒ the i believe that the development of the blue economy must focus on sustainable economic activities that meet the needs of present and future generations and create prosperity for society.
we stress the need to raise awareness among citizens of the importance of the sea as an economic, cultural and social resource, and of the role of research and dialogue between stakeholders and citizens in achieving full sustainability.
for example, the report calls on the commission to develop a financial framework to promote innovation, the sustainable development of the blue economy and the creation of quality jobs.
we therefore urge the commission to commit to the sustainable development goals and the international process for the development agenda for 2015 to ensure that future goals are framed in respect for rights, including the right to water.
i want to call for the permanent exclusion of water, sanitation and waste water disposal from internal market rules.
together with the national part of co-financing, it will mobilise over eur 630 billion in the 2014-2020 funding period to support the efforts of member states and regions to implement structural reforms and to lay the foundations for a sustainable recovery.
those programmes must also comply with a number of ex ante conditionalities which are essential to enable member states and regions to better exploit the potential of the funds, and, not least, those programmes have been specifically designed to contribute to the union's top priorities: job creation, investment and prosperity, the digital single market or the energy union and climate change.
in particular, €15 billion will be directly managed by cities under sustainable urban development strategies.
as i said, we are preparing the eu urban agenda, we want to help mobilise the potential of cities to become drivers of job creation, social inclusion and sustainable development.
the economic crisis has obviously had very serious consequences for the cohesion of the european union in the fields of industry, energy and research.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states.
many of these are mentioned in the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy and we hope that they will be taken into account, because if a social policy of development is not immediately promoted, then the union will never be able to reduce the great economic, social and territorial disparities.
‒ strengthening cooperation between the eu and guinea-bissau is necessary in order to establish a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in guinea-bissau's fishing zone in the interests of both parties.
‒ the eu policies should in any case support cities, towns and functional urban areas and encourage them to realise their full potential as drivers of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development.
furthermore, although the environmental and demographic challenges and problems that exist today are documented, there is no mention of the need to promote a developmental social policy that is people-centred, contributes to the creation of new quality jobs and provides solutions to the significant problems that cities are facing today, especially due to the economic crisis and the harsh neoliberal memorandum policies.
‒ the cohesion policy is the european union's main tool to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities in european regions, boost their competitiveness, tackle climate change and energy dependence, while contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives.
‒ the taking into account that the transport sector is the engine of the eu economy, employing some 10 million people and accounting for around 5% of gdp, and that it should remain a leader in creating further economic growth and jobs and in promoting competitiveness, sustainable development and territorial cohesion, we welcome the commission's intention to undertake a mid-term review of the white paper with a view to assessing the progress achieved and proposing further actions to meet its objectives.
we also agree that the eu, its member states and the international community must play a greater role in conflict resolution and in helping to find sustainable political solutions in conflict-affected areas.
the eu faces important short-term challenges such as economic and fiscal sustainability, social welfare and, in particular, job creation, with particular regard to the most vulnerable groups such as young people, women and the elderly, the long-term unemployed, people with disabilities, migrants.
strengthening the role of local authorities is important and is linked to an improved economic and social environment for the implementation of the millennium development goals.
i therefore voted in favour of this report, also recognising the urgency of adopting specific measures to enhance the effective use of the €35 billion allocated to greece in the eu budget for the period 2014-2020. i believe that the exceptional measures provided for in the regulation will be able to support the prospect of the best possible absorption of the resources available from the european structural and investment funds and consequently the achievement of a sustainable recovery of the greek economy, through the creation of new jobs and the promotion of investment.
‒ the local authorities have an important role to play in achieving the goal of reducing poverty, fighting hunger and protecting the environment.
the fraud committed is a serious breach of both european environmental law and consumer rights.
the union must urgently promote concrete measures to ensure effective control, always with a view to protecting the rights of consumers, human health and the environment.
‒ the the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants.
it is recognised that emissions of pollutants to the atmosphere have decreased significantly in recent years, but that at the same time air pollution levels remain problematic in many parts of europe and that citizens are still exposed to air pollutants that may endanger their health and well-being.
‒ the the main objective of this proposal is to establish emission limit values to control the emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter into the atmosphere from medium-sized combustion plants as minimum standards for the protection of the environment and eu citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
moreover, the major part of the air pollution is not only the responsibility of large industrial plants, but also of the world's major economies (usa, china, etc.)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the doubling of the capacity of the northern pipeline is a response to the union's inability to address effectively the shortcomings of its energy security.
however, the main problems with energy supply are in the south of europe and not in the north.
the commission has also taken the view that the energy efficiency of the member states is a matter for the member states themselves.
the commission must also be concerned that these developments are marginalizing the southern pipeline and that the commission must realize that it must make greater use of domestic energy sources.
we expect the union to support energy investment in the eastern mediterranean, to promote the creation of a mediterranean gas hub with pipelines and to develop lng production.
we also call on the commission to draw up a comprehensive strategy for the development of renewable energy sources and to ensure that prices are affordable for consumers.
at least what i have been hearing from everyone since the day i was elected as a member of the european parliament, from the european parliament, from the european commission, from the commissioner responsible, from everyone, is that the european union must become energy self-sufficient, self-sufficient, that there should be decoupling, that there should be many sources of energy supply, that the european union's energy supply should not be held hostage and controlled, and that we will try to ensure all of this.
i believe that the eastern mediterranean and other regions are suitable for the european union to exploit and to become as self-sufficient as possible and not dependent on one or two sources of energy.
i believe that the eastern mediterranean offers, also through cyprus, which is a member of the european union, an alternative energy supply arm, using cyprus, israel, egypt and greece.
i think that we should also focus on solutions which do not make the european union a hostage in energy matters now and in the future.
i believe that we must move objectively, with proposals that have a present, a future and a perspective, and one such proposal is finally to use the eastern mediterranean in the right direction and to invest in energy infrastructure for the benefit of the european union, for the benefit of european citizens, for the benefit of energy supply and energy self-sufficiency for the european union.
‒ the the resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster in hungary, five years after the accident, stresses the importance of involving local authorities, citizens and civil society in the decision-making process on the disposal of hazardous waste and in the design of risk management measures.
madam president, at the next un climate conference we must reach an agreement which must be implemented by all.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is for this reason that strict control measures must be taken immediately and that the interests of people and the environment must be put above the interests of multinational companies.
secondly, the european union, and particularly the rich countries, must take the lead in finally implementing the commitment to create a green finance fund for developing countries, because only then will these countries be able to adapt to the new climate changes.
‒ the the report rightly points out that the eu is on track to meet its 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction and renewable energy targets.
it emphasises that significant improvements in energy intensity have been achieved through more efficient buildings, products, industrial processes and vehicles, and that the european economy has grown by 45% since 1990. it also stresses that the 20-20-20 targets for greenhouse gas emissions reduction, energy from renewable sources and energy saving have played a key role in promoting this process and preserving employment.
‒ the at the next climate conference we must reach an agreement that can be implemented by all.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
putting the interests of people and the environment above the private interests of multinationals.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of climate change is a very good one.
it is stressed that the 2015 protocol should be legally binding and aim at phasing out greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. the eu is called upon to work with international partners to this end, providing examples of good practice.
it stresses the importance of keeping human rights at the heart of climate change action and providing assistance to the poorest countries.
it also stresses the need to fully respect the rights of local communities and peoples vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
we are concerned about the discrepancy between the co2 emissions reported in the official test results and those measured under real driving conditions.
‒ the the revision of regulation no 258/97 on novel foods is urgently needed in view of the scientific and technological developments that have taken place in the food sector since 1997. our aim is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests.
it obliges member states to update their national air pollution control programmes regularly and lays down provisions on penalties for infringements of the national provisions adopted under the proposal.
the report does not substantially criticise the commission's report on the completion of emu, but instead supports all those economic policies which are destroying both the social fabric of the eu member states and any hope for sustainable social development.
finally, the resolution calls for the financial and administrative capacity of public employment services to be improved so that they can play a central role in the implementation of this proposal, and invites the commission and the member states to assess how to support specific in-work training programmes, as well as business development and investment projects that have created sustainable quality jobs for the long-term unemployed.
‒ we voted in favour of this report as it makes general proposals on promoting common european strategies and products to boost the development of quality, sustainable and social tourism.
finally, we insist that public investment should be made to create sustainable and quality jobs and to support the welfare state.
we believe that the aviation package to be presented at the end of this year should develop the european aviation sector, while respecting the eu's environmental commitments and objectives.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's first report on the state of the energy union unfortunately confirms what we have known.
there is still no substantial action to remove the energy isolation of states from energy networks, to achieve energy independence and supply, to address climate change, to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, to promote renewable energy sources and to reduce the union's energy dependence.
the commission's failure to take the necessary action to combat the energy poverty that is afflicting more and more people in europe is particularly worrying.
the union's domestic energy sources can and must play an important role in breaking the energy isolation and ensuring equal and cheap access to energy for all.
we therefore continue to call on the commission to exploit the potential created by gas deposits in the eastern mediterranean, to support energy investments in the region, to promote the creation of a mediterranean gas hub with pipelines and to develop lng production.
it is equally important that we develop immediately a realistic, comprehensive plan to support and promote renewable energy sources.
but above all, we need to redefine our energy policy so that the needs and interests of people, consumers and local communities are at the centre.
the commission i believe that energy is a matter of the utmost importance for the european union, for the member states, but even more so for the citizens of europe.
the key to energy is energy costs, and it is widely acknowledged that energy costs in the european union are very high.
we pay a very high price for energy in europe.
in order to reduce energy costs, which should be our first objective, we must immediately break free from the monopoly energy situation in the european union by exploiting our own potential reserves or deposits of natural wealth, which exist in many regions of the european union.
i would say to you in particular that it is time to exploit - and you, mr commissioner, must take initiatives as vice-president - the energy reserves in the eastern mediterranean.
i believe that we can exploit these reserves, large european companies, giants, are already there and in this way reduce energy costs, which will be to the benefit of both businesses and citizens.
at the same time, the european union has a responsibility to reduce energy poverty.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
the use of renewable energy sources today, where the cost is low, particularly in countries with comparative advantages in solar, wind, biofuels or other renewable energy sources, is our imperative task and we must do it, mr vice-president.
mr president, a lot has been said about energy supply security.
the european union has been blessed with some energy reserves in the eastern mediterranean, particularly in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus.
the government of cyprus, acting in line with european union interests, promotes an energy coalition with greece and cyprus from the european union on one side, and with israel and egypt on the other – something that might not be possible if the two (israel and egypt) were perceived to be cooperating directly.
‒ the the resolution states that the commission is accountable to the european public for protecting citizens and the environment from hazardous chemicals, and for promoting innovation, including in the area of safer chemicals and products, in order to promote a resilient economy.
the need for clear and effective rules in the field of renewable energy sources is emphasised.
i would like to stress that despite all the legal efforts that have been made so far, such as the eu directive 29/2012 and the istanbul convention, there is still much to be done to significantly reduce violence against women, which affects not only the victims but also their social environment.
our approach is in the exact opposite direction, namely to adopt trade rules that addressed the important issues facing humanity, those of poverty, climate change, the right to work with social rights and the fight against social inequalities.
the report rightly points out that the development of innovative sustainable, environmentally friendly urban logistics strategies, including private and public actors, is of paramount importance in solving congestion and environmental problems in cities.
it is noted that logistics must be based on sustainable modes of transport and calls for better optimisation of the supply chain in urban areas based on new, cost-effective modes of operation, technology and business model.
the problem is particularly evident in cyprus where public transport is used by a very small number of citizens, mainly foreigners, while the vast majority use private cars, creating severe traffic congestion and air pollution.
some of these measures, as the report itself very rightly states, are the use of alternative energy sources by avoiding the use of fossil fuels, but also the provision of incentives to citizens to use public transport such as buses, so as to counter the negative consequences mentioned above.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the energy union strategy will have a decisive impact on people's lives.
we must support a social development policy which ensures that energy is a public social good to which everyone has equal access.
to achieve this, we must ensure that energy remains outside the ttip agreement and that powers are not given to the commission at the expense of the sovereign rights of states.
we must also stop talking vaguely about ending the energy isolation of the states and promote investment in strategic connections and public infrastructure for the benefit of the people.
it is equally important to stop simply noting how domestic energy sources should be exploited and to support, among other things, the creation of a mediterranean gas hub in the mediterranean, with the potential for lng development.
finally, we must stop funding nuclear power and promote a realistic integrated strategy to deliver the 2020 and 2030 renewable energy targets.
we believe that it is important for the strengthening of the energy security of europe, and especially of southern and south-eastern europe, which today faces many problems, that these important resources be accurately recorded, and we therefore believe that the report should also focus on this region.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
it is inconceivable that the european union should be so energy dependent that it needs more than a billion euros a year to meet its energy needs from energy imports.
it is not possible for it to be 90% dependent on crude oil, 66% dependent on natural gas and for some to oppose the policy of supporting the energy union.
but energy independence and the energy union will not be achieved unless the european union itself exploits its potential, wherever it may be.
the european union is also committed to the development of the energy sector, and the european union is also committed to the development of the energy sector.
the economy of the dominican republic is based mainly on agriculture, which accounted for an average of 11% of the country's gdp between 2000 and 2010. the dominican republic is a small developing island state which is making significant efforts to diversify and offers real potential for development, particularly in the areas of tourism and geothermal energy production.
the measures provided for in this amendment will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of fishery resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing sustainable benefits, both from an environmental and social point of view.
this amendment provides for the implementation of measures aimed at ensuring better conservation and optimum use of fishery resources in the area, with lasting results, while taking account of environmental and social aspects.
‒ the we support and agree with the content of the report on the creation of a european energy union.
we believe in the need to strengthen euro-mediterranean cooperation on gas, electricity, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources and call on the commission to speed up the establishment of the euro-mediterranean gas platform.
we believe that the backbone of the future energy union must be a fully functioning, interconnected internal energy market to provide secure, protected, equitably distributed, socially and environmentally responsible, efficient, competitive, affordable and sustainable energy in fully functioning, secure and resilient transmission networks.
the eastern mediterranean is now a major energy potential for the eu.
the discovery of gas in the region and the creation of a strong energy alliance between cyprus, israel, greece and egypt should be exploited directly by the eu.
it is up to the eu to move forward immediately with the exploitation of the eastern mediterranean because only then will europe begin to realise the vision of the european energy union and energy independence.
references to the need to achieve a common european energy policy and to strengthen the role of the commission in transnational and trade agreements are of course aimed at promoting the interests of the eu's ruling circles and limiting the sovereignty of states inside and outside the eu, by reducing national flexibility in shaping efficient and multi-dimensional transnational energy relations.
this requires ensuring that there is strong state control, public infrastructure and international cooperation, which will be carried out on the basis of mutual benefit, parity and solidarity and not on the basis of energy planning that serves geopolitical expediencies.
‒ the the eu's energy strategy for 2030 aims to create a true european energy union with secure energy markets and supplies, while increasing energy efficiency through the interconnection of national networks, which will gradually be homogenized, leaving behind current differentiations.
the five aspects of this strategy are energy security, an integrated internal energy market, energy efficiency, decarbonisation and the promotion of healthy competition and research.
through these objectives, the eu will be able to offer its citizens a modern energy supply system that takes account of the needs and challenges of today's society in terms of climate change and environmental degradation.
the exploitation of renewable energy sources to avoid the use of coal is another welcome objective that can be achieved through the energy union.
i support this resolution because achieving energy independence will promote the competitiveness of the european market with significant economic, social and political benefits for the future of the european economy and the well-being of citizens.
it stresses that energy is a public social good and calls on the eu to promote concrete measures to tackle energy poverty.
it also stresses the need to ensure equal access to energy for all, to ensure affordable prices for consumers, to break the energy isolation and to promote strategic connections and energy infrastructure for the benefit of citizens.
the need to exploit the significant gas reserves of the eastern mediterranean and to create a mediterranean gas hub with increased lng capacity to enhance our energy security is also of particular importance.
it proposes to give the commission increased powers in the field of transnational and trade agreements to the detriment of the sovereign rights of the member states, promotes nuclear energy and proposes to include a separate chapter on energy in the ttip agreement.
‒ the the report rightly points out that europe's energy system has evolved since 2002, when the 10% electricity interconnection target was first set, given that renewables have been deployed across the continent.
furthermore, it is important: (a) to implement the 'energy efficiency first' principle in national and eu policy and more demand-side measures; (b) to develop decentralised renewable energy sources and related smart grids; (c) to take national decisions on the energy mix, taking into account the eu's long-term climate and energy objectives; (d) to develop energy storage technologies, including at household and municipal level; (e) to use the best available technologies where appropriate; (f) to recognise individuals as producer-consumers in the energy system; and (g) to create clear incentives for investments in networks.
‒ the part of the eu's energy objectives for the coming years includes achieving 10% electricity interconnectivity between member states, which will create an internal energy market with multiple positive economic and geopolitical implications.
at the same time, a modern and well-structured network will be able to provide high-quality services while taking into account environmental protection and the exploitation of renewable energy sources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the energy directive.
the eu target of 10% interconnection by 2020 is important to address current problems including the low capacity of existing national infrastructures and the time-consuming permitting process (to avoid the isolation of member states, and in particular remote island states) and to achieve a single energy market as an integral part of the energy union.
‒ the it is our constant view that the removal of the energy isolation of many eu countries and regions from the large energy networks must be one of the priorities of the union's energy policy.
the sustainability of the jobs created is still difficult to assess at present, because many progress credits were granted less than a year ago.
‒ the the report highlights some positive elements such as stakeholder participation in the definition of regional fisheries policy, improvement of fishing practices and tools, sustainable management of stocks and coordination between member states in the development of management plans and the definition of technical measures.
we agree to strike at tax evasion, tax avoidance, tax havens, the favourable environment created for multinational companies and corporations.
‒ we support the report as invasive species are a serious and rapidly worsening threat to natural biodiversity in europe.
plants and animals entering new, foreign habitats can overwhelm natural flora or fauna and damage the environment.
these products contain substances (cp 4 epsps protein and pat protein) which are considered by specialised cancer research centres as possibly carcinogenic to humans, with the result that their authorisation for placing on the market is contrary to community law and to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 itself, which states that, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 178/2002, the objective of the authorisation system for genetically modified food and feed is to 'ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and the interests of consumers'.
the causes of this crisis are warfare and natural disasters due to climate change - all products of human intolerance and greed.
‒ the we voted against the report because we believe that in an industrialized and resource-efficient economy it is imperative to upgrade the secondary metals (which are produced by a recovery and recycling process) which must be developed in the context of a competitive and sustainable circular economy, although we know that it cannot in any case fully meet the needs of european economies in terms of essential metals, either in quality or in quantity.
‒ the the report tackles the serious problems facing the european base metal industries due to reduced demand and the strong competition that exists due to the relocation of production by large multinational companies to third countries so that they do not have to comply with eu environmental rules or collective agreements.
we voted against this report because it contains a number of positive points, such as the need to support the european metal industry, particularly in relation to workers' rights, the need to create new quality jobs, the need to protect human health and the environment, and the need to put obstacles in the way of the activities and profitability of the large multinational companies.
‒ the the report addresses the serious problems facing the european base metal industries due to reduced demand and the strong competition that exists due to the relocation of production by large multinational companies to third countries to comply neither with eu environmental rules nor with collective agreements.
we voted against this report because it contains a number of positive points, such as the need to support the european metal industry particularly in relation to workers' rights, the need to create new quality jobs combined with the need to protect human health and the environment, and the need to put a stop to the activities and profitability of large multinational companies.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
companies themselves are also required to act in accordance with approved codes of conduct and the social and environmental performance standards they set, as well as in accordance with instruments such as the ilo convention 169, the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises and the un guidelines on business and human rights.
‒ the virunga national park is a unesco world heritage site and also the park with the highest biodiversity in africa.