the last time this was shown was at the end of last year, when the committee on the environment, public health and food safety voted on the committee's recommendations for the second reading.
gmos are a danger both to the environment itself, to the genetic pool and to species diversity, and above all to human and animal health.
however, negotiations were blocked by the member states themselves for four years, and the resulting compromise proposal of the council, adopted by 28 environment ministers in july 2014, was far from perfect.
overall, this is a good compromise that helps to protect europe's biodiversity and preserve natural habitats and ecosystems, among other things.
the inhumane way tuna is caught is a major global problem and the european union should do its utmost to ensure that the funds it spends on its fisheries policy are always allocated to sustainable fishing.
lastly, it should be stressed that the legal basis for the new legislation should be the environment, as already expressed by the european parliament in its decision at first reading.
i supported this text in line with the opinion of the group of the european people's party and also in line with the opinion of the experts, the ministry of the environment and the ministry of agriculture of the czech republic.
of course, the prevention of crime, a safer environment in europe, transparency as a way to fight corruption, but also the above-mentioned number of 3 600 estimated criminal gangs all testify to this proposal or to a greater degree of fighting corruption.
the international community will have to agree on a new approach to try to eradicate poverty, support economic growth in countries affected by natural disasters and conflicts, and address climate change issues.
it also denounces the climate of fear and insecurity placed upon civil society (protesters, journalists, women and lgbti people).
the conference will aim to keep global warming below 2%.
the european union's plans to prevent global warming are very ambitious.
without a truly global agreement to reduce co2 emissions, the european union's plan will only result in industry moving outside the european union, with an impact on employment, but no impact on the global climate.
i think it is very important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but we must not lose sight of employment, energy prices, and above all ourselves and our homes.
i'm not at all sure that the world's decision-makers have really understood that the failure of these negotiations also means security and social risks and climate migration with all the known consequences.
we're stopping the air traffic control clock, we screwed up the carbon leakage sheet, we're fixing the ets system for a long time.
and if we don't agree on action in paris, the next thing we're gonna be talking about is adapting to climate change.
and these programs, of course, cannot replace a stable, sustainable, competitive environment for our entrepreneurs, for the development of business in the czech lands.
states parties to this convention undertake to take into account the environment in which the child has been raised and is not alien to them and to cooperate in the return of the child.
the demand for the protection of personal data, intellectual property, copyright and the protection of children in the digital environment from exploitation on the internet (whether through social networks, games, advertising or inappropriate content) is coming to the fore.
we cannot afford to waste any time.
it also calls on eu countries to re-examine their relations with saudi arabia, but to be cautious as they are energy dependent.
to discuss the respect of human rights in a country where fundamentalist sectarianism is the official religion is almost a waste of time.
mr president, energy is a subject that is moving europe.
i support efforts to improve coordination of key energy decisions within and between member states, especially in the transmission system.
it is also reasonable to seek some coordination of the many different national subsidies for renewable resources.
a rational approach to the use of domestic energy sources should be fundamental to european energy.
i am not in favour of proposals to create a european regulator, which always appear in debates on improving the energy market.
there is certainly a legitimate debate on the functioning of the european agency acer to help bring about the common energy market.
at the same time, however, the right of member states to choose their own energy mix must not be undermined.
the document is certainly positive that you want to focus on energy efficiency and savings in the energy union.
after all, you yourself said at the envi meeting that the cleanest energy is the one we don't use.
however, the implementation of smart metering is very expensive and requires a large investment from both consumers and energy companies.
it's about energy prices.
you yourself said that the energy union must also include a new concept of the energy market, a new pricing structure, so that prices are more affordable.
you know very well that tens of thousands of people in the eu today no longer have the energy bills to pay for their basic needs.
i consider the debate on the eu's energy strategy to be very important, as energy security is crucial for the future of the eu.
i also believe that the discussion at eu level is not sufficiently focused on the specificities of individual member states and their current energy portfolios.
we can't waste any more time.
by approving this proposal, we will contribute to the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from transport, increasing road safety and improving the working environment for drivers.
first of all, there is significant uncertainty concerning the reforms in some states – the reforms that are needed to get the countries on a sustainable path.
as the countries have not reached a sustainable path, there is significant uncertainty about the future of economic actions which is undermining the investment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think that it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think that it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think that it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region.
trucks account for around 26% of co2 emissions on the road and are the slowest in making progress in terms of clean transport.
the new measures are also intended to significantly improve the aerodynamic characteristics of vehicles, deliver fuel savings for a typical long-haul truck and significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
indeed, they are important precisely because europe needs new, competitively sustainable growth, innovation, and of course it also needs to implement its cohesion policy.
this is a necessary tool to boost the eu real economy and put smes on the path of smart and sustainable growth.
the eltifs allow investments in, for example, infrastructure, transport and sustainable energy projects and will ensure that these investments are safe by spreading assets or imposing limits on the amount investors can borrow.
the main reason for supporting the regulation for me was the situation where, as a result of the disputes that had taken place between the commission and the card companies, an opaque environment was created that would make the regulation transparent.
it calls on the member states to undertake the appropriate reforms to restore a favourable business environment.
i think it is also important to help serbia to build up its renewable energy capacity.
the european union joined the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean in 1998 to promote the sustainable development, conservation and rational management of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea.
the text set a clearer definition of the overall objective of the organisation in terms of biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability.
the russian federation is a key partner in serbia's foreign trade, especially in the area of raw materials and energy.
i also think it is unacceptable to order serbia to reduce its coal investments, especially after water flooded serbian mines and caused significant damage to the serbian energy sector.
although serbia has done a lot in the area of small hydropower plants and therefore in renewable energy, it cannot be dictated what its energy mix should be.
protecting and ensuring a safe environment for children should be our priority, including the online environment.
the climate of hostility towards the political opposition in russia is alarming.
they lack any ability to bring the country to stability and sustainable development.
‒ given the fact that the security environment has rapidly deteriorated, especially in europe’s immediate neighbourhood, i am supportive of the key messages delivered in the parliament’s resolution on the high representative’s annual report.
it is becoming more and more clear that president maduro intends to silence the opposition and create a climate of social and political confrontation and instability in the run-up to the parliamentary elections this year.
this is particularly remarkable in a time when we are trying to stimulate the economy by improving the investment environment, and we are building administrative barriers instead of breaking down barriers.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important to provide european industries with financial support when they have to undergo structural changes which put at risk the economic and social sustainability of a region.
in an environment that's not distorted by subsidies and similar contributions, it's much easier to create new companies that employ these people.
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, the committee on transport and tourism, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs supported the general line of the mandatory introduction of ecall and contributed with several specific provisions to reinforce or clarify the commission proposal.
we all know now that the promotion of first-generation biofuels was a huge mistake, that the european union made a big mistake and overlooked several key factors in the design of the original directive, which has resulted in further damage to the landscape and the environment, reduced food self-sufficiency and rising food prices.
the first alarming sign that something was not quite right was the relentless pressure exerted on us on a daily basis by the european lobby, which was more concerned than the environment with which raw material or fuel would be supported and how and where it would be used.
nevertheless, thanks to the excellent work of the rapporteur and the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, we entered the final negotiations with the council and the commission with a very strong document.
but what has emerged in the end is nothing less than a great defeat for the european parliament and, above all, for the environment.
the european parliament has simply failed to implement almost anything it originally voted for in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i need a paper bag for waste paper, i get a paper bag at the store.
when i need a plastic bag for my plastic waste, i use a plastic bag.
people will take more micro-ten bags, people will have to buy more rolls of plastic waste packaging if they don't get them as bags in the stores.
‒ i support the reduction in the use of certain risky biofuels and an increase in biofuels that deliver greenhouse gas savings.
i voted for the fuel quality and renewable energy directives because i believe, based on the number of studies that have been carried out, that support for traditional biofuels, however substantial, even in terms of limiting energy imports into the eu, has significant negative impacts.
i therefore support the eu's shifting its focus from traditional biofuels to advanced biofuels or electromobility that do not have a negative environmental impact.
in particular, the text sets a cap of 7% on the use of first-generation agri-fuels in the final energy consumption of transport by 2020. fuel suppliers will also have to report to the member states of the eu and the commission on the estimated level of greenhouse gas emissions linked to indirect land-use change (iluc).
the commission will then publish data on these emissions linked to the iluc factor.
by the end of 2017 at the latest, the commission will report back to parliament and the council on the possibility of including iluc factors in the sustainability criteria for biofuels, on the basis of the best scientific data available.
the directive only concerns one detail, plastic bags, which have an impact on the environment.
i expect the european union to tackle problems that the member states cannot, and environmental protection is one of those issues.
i voted against the rejection of the november 2014 text, which was the result of long interinstitutional negotiations between the council, the european parliament and the commission, because i consider it to be of high quality and helpful to environmental protection.
billions of plastic bags end up as waste each year, polluting the oceans and seas, where they gradually break down into smaller and smaller particles and disrupt food chains.
‒ the proposal newly includes an obligation for member states to achieve a sustainable reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags.
the regulation adopted by parliament does not cover so-called very lightweight plastic bags (such as plastic bags used for buying fruit) which are necessary for hygiene reasons and to prevent waste.
i see the obligation of member states to achieve a lasting reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags as an obligation for each of us to work towards reducing the environmental burden and to try to prevent further unnecessary pollution.
for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, we will have binding measures at eu level to reduce waste generation.
‒ i supported the resulting compromise between the european parliament and the council, which sets out binding measures to reduce waste in the case of plastic bags at eu level.
prevention of waste generation is more important than subsequent environmental impact management.
i believe that the environment is one of the areas which should logically be of interest to the union.
all member states can then influence, for example, the amount of plastic waste in the seas, which is certainly of interest not only to the citizens of the coastal member states but to the citizens of all member states without distinction.
‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached on the plastic bags legislation which aims to reduce by half, by 2019, and at least 80% by 2025, the use of disposable lightweight plastic bags, which is a major source of pollution.
this legislation, if properly implemented could solve a major environmental problem.
it is important to me to achieve positive environmental outcomes and to raise public awareness of sustainable consumption.
if we are fighting to reduce emissions in the field of road and air transport, it is obvious to me that we should do the same in this area.
‒ i voted in favour of this report aiming to restore and maintain conservation of baltic cod, herring and sprat and to ensure that stocks are exploited sustainably so that maximum sustainable yield can be achieved as soon as possible.
i voted against the amendments tabled by the envi committee, which go beyond the report of the agri central committee and distort the balance of the pillars of forestry management in favour of the ecological and the economic and social aspects of forestry management.
in the case of iter, however, i believe that many members were motivated by ideological reasons (general opposition to nuclear energy) when voting against the postponement proposal in the control committee.
smokers do not usually attack their environment under the influence of nicotine, and smoking does not destroy entire families.
the solution to the crisis is to create a climate for business and employment, not more subsidies and government investment.
the theme of this year's expo 2015 in milan is 'food for the planet, energy for life'.
the focus of the exhibition is to encourage discussion on improving food production and distribution, addressing food waste, and finding solutions to other pressing issues such as malnutrition and malnutrition.
now we are debating what is probably the last step in the creation of a safer environment that will bring credible and robust financial industries: legislation that is focused on administration of benchmarks and the creation of the indices.
the commission opted for a very wide and very deep proposal which drives concern for the sustainability of this regulation, especially for small indices.
there were many questions concerning the consistency of this regulation with the international environment, which went rather towards the recommendation issued by iosco, and obviously it created problems with the third-country regime.
the internet is a free and dynamic environment, and it seems to me that you are trying to ruin it.
how can we prevent exclusion or discrimination against those for whom the digital environment is too complex?
it is crucial that eu countries respect their official development assistance (oda) target of 0.7% of national income and set timetables for reaching it by 2020. i believe it is important not only to provide financial aid but also to create an environment in developing countries which stimulates more responsible, transparent and accountable investment.
the eu’s development aid focuses both on helping those in immediate need and on increasing the sustainability of the countries in question through capacity—building projects.
without development aid, we will not be able to find solutions to problems such as poverty, climate change, terrorism and also the very current migratory pressures.
smes are very important for so-called green growth (sustainable economic growth).
in july 2014, the commission published its green action plan for smes and the report we voted on yesterday (19 may 2015) was, at its core, an initiative by the commission to encourage smes to develop the benefits of green growth, welcoming and generally supporting the concept of a circular waste economy.
the green growth sector offers significant economic and environmental benefits to smes in the eu and can be expected to flourish in the coming years.
however, good legislation cannot be prepared without a detailed knowledge of the regulated environment, and parliament therefore called on the member states and the commission to base their new proposals on specific market failures or problems that the regulation is intended to address.
while i am generally in favour of reducing health risks, cadmium-free technologies do not seem to be ready to meet the demands of the market today, for example, due to low energy efficiency and short life problems.
i am afraid that the repeal of the exemption will mean the destruction of investments made by the lighting industry in particular to improve energy efficiency, and therefore i think it may be premature.
in any case, turkey remains an important player in the region, remains a key geopolitical player in terms of security and also in terms of energy security of the european union.
madam president, the importance of acer is growing with the size and complexity of the european energy market.
the failure to open up the single european energy market has made the role of common oversight of good practice all the more important.
for the market to function properly, we need a remit system to monitor extreme fluctuations in energy trade.
if we look at the topics – and again the agenda is right, with foreign policy, climate change, poverty, development aid and many other issues – i think we are talking about policies which lie at the heart of this problem, which in fact we partly co-created.
after all, there is no way that we cannot provide a high level of security for our most important networks, like transportation, energy, and healthcare, where there is an enormous amount of private data and data from state-owned enterprises.
- i voted against it, it's a waste of taxpayers' money.
i believe that the action plan needs to be implemented with urgency, responding flexibly to a rapidly changing environment and focusing only on effective and justified actions that will actually improve the position of rights holders, because that is the purpose of all the measures mentioned, to strengthen the position of rights holders.
it is therefore necessary to increase users' awareness and knowledge of intellectual property rights, in particular in the digital environment, which brings new temptations and opportunities for infringement.
yes, it was precisely what some of you call the terrible russia, which has been portrayed here many times over the last year as the very bottom of hell that the fight against climate change has made possible.
in 2012, in doha, the parties to the protocol adopted an amendment to the protocol, introducing a second commitment period from 2013 to 2020. yes, the eu and iceland's continued participation in the second review period of the protocol helps our fight against climate change, but this step is completely negligible if we cannot ensure the participation of the biggest polluters, such as china, india or the united states, whose share of emissions was only about 36% in the original protocol.
let's say it loud and clear: the current emissions from the eu and iceland are not a problem, they are a gesture from the eu.
without the biggest polluters, the eu cannot do anything alone, which is why we must urge these countries to join us during the upcoming paris climate change conference.
draftswoman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the european energy security strategy contains some really good points which can improve the quality of the environment in our view, so as to achieve a balance between ecological and socio-economic factors.
first and foremost, it is about energy efficiency.
the full exploitation of its potential and the development of smart infrastructure would stimulate growth and create quality jobs and reduce energy consumption.
reducing energy consumption, together with energy efficiency, is a quick and effective way of tackling many problems such as energy security, dependence on foreign sources, high prices and unemployment.
eliminating unnecessary consumption through better efficiency, stronger connectivity, greater market integration and sustainable investment in energy, in particular in buildings, could allow households to access a single, affordable, competitive and secure energy market on equal terms and avoid energy poverty, which affected a quarter of eu citizens in 2012.
for the s&d group.
our current way of life, the functioning of our economy and indeed our entire modern society are completely dependent on an uninterrupted supply of available energy, both in price and in physical form.
energy security is therefore naturally one of our top priorities.
that is why we need an effective and strong european strategy to meet our energy needs in the future.
a strategy that is not just a repetition of traditional recipes for our energy problems.
the view has long prevailed among experts and the public that energy security is limited to the search for access to new fossil fuels, in particular oil and natural gas.
our long-term energy security is threatened today by our unsustainable, even irrational, dependence on oil and gas.
it is not just imports from countries that are prone to use the so-called energy weapon to advance their foreign policy objectives.
i also see a threat in the uncritical support of unconventional mining ... (the president cut off the speaker) the technologies used today have a clear negative impact on the health of citizens and the quality of the environment.
the extraction of these unconventional resources will only postpone the much-needed transition to a low-carbon economy.
the european energy security strategy must start first and foremost at home, in the european union.
we need to fundamentally change the way we use energy, or in other words, the way we waste it.
energy conservation is one of the least costly ways to enhance our energy security.
it is regrettable that this is the area where member states did not have greater ambition last autumn and did not adopt a higher binding target for energy efficiency.
as the morning debate has reminded us, any dependence of the eu on russia and its energy resources is indeed a big gamble.
the best way to achieve energy security is to ensure alternative supplies and better energy interconnection between member states, but also to maximise self-sufficiency and the wise management of our own resources.
unfortunately, we have to keep reminding ourselves that the energy mix is in the hands of the member states.
i think that the eu's energy policy has made a lot of mistakes in the past and we should admit that.
this affects consumers, who pay billions of crowns a year, extra out of their pockets, to pay for this eu-preferred energy.
now that the wind is blowing stronger in germany, wind energy has to be moved and we all have to invest more money in the grids.
madam president, first of all, let me say that i highly appreciate the quality of the report, and i appreciate the concept of an energy union, as it wisely merges the issues of affordable energy and energy security and also the issue of sustainability and responsibility.
first of all, the efficient and responsible use of energy savings should be one of the key priorities of our energy policy.
we must fully utilise it to merge the goals in the areas of security, to support the economy and to use energy resources responsibly.
secondly, energy security should not be an issue only at times of political crisis, like now in russia.
at the same time, we should bear in mind that making energy more secure means making it more expensive, and people will have to pay the price.
lastly, we should focus on the energy we can generate most easily.
i welcome the report on the european energy security strategy as it highlights the main challenges facing the eu energy sector.
although significant progress has been made in recent years towards strengthening the eu's energy security, we still face a number of challenges, such as instability in energy-supplying regions or fragmentation of the internal market.
i think it is important that the commission also addresses the problem of energy poverty seriously.
i myself pointed out in my report the importance of measures to improve consumer awareness of the structure of energy prices and energy efficiency measures that would allow active consumer involvement in the management of energy consumption, including the possibility of easily changing suppliers.
i think it is not possible or sustainable in this day and age to continue to have paper documents with stamps on them, as the number of people crossing borders increases.
- i'm all for protecting the environment.
the ratification of the doha amendment removes any danger of a legal vacuum arising between the end of the kyoto protocol and the new, legally binding, world climate deal, to be negotiated at the cop21 summit in paris in december 2015, that is due to come into force in 2020. if europe is the leading force in climate policy, then it needs to be followed by the rest of the world.
the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997 setting an internationally binding emission reduction target.
the eu in general strongly supports commitments of individual states to reduce their collective greenhouse gas emissions, and this step could serve as an important example and signal on the international level.
citizens in the member states rightly expect us to make energy security a priority and to try to find common ground and solutions.
the issue of energy security is a key issue for us and an area where the eu can bring a great deal of added value, and it is therefore our duty to come up with an appropriate solution.
i believe that we need to work towards making the eu and its member states less dependent on energy imports from outside the eu.
as for other eu countries, nuclear energy is also crucial for the czech republic, which has a great future for development.
i voted against the eu's attempt to centrally regulate energy production throughout the eu.
under the pretext of solidarity, member states with a stable energy grid should help those who have decided to build wind farms and close nuclear power plants instead of ensuring energy security.
‒ today we voted on a report on energy security in europe.
i fully agree that energy security should be a key element of eu trade policy.
however, i believe that the energy union project is too ambitious and i am not convinced that we will find a consensus at eu level on the support and preferences for different energy sources.
moreover, i still believe that the energy mix should remain in the hands of each member state, which is why i could not support the report in today's vote.
‒ i am sorry that the draft energy security report has been rejected.
the report contained many positive elements, such as the promotion of new technologies, climate protection, energy efficiency measures and respect for the member states' power to decide on their energy mix, including nuclear energy, which the report explicitly identified as low-carbon.
‒ i am very sorry that the european parliament today rejected the ambitious report on the european energy security strategy, on which i worked as a shadow rapporteur.
some of the proposals seem to have been clearly too ambitious, notably promoting binding energy efficiency targets, or too controversial, such as nuclear energy, which has divided meps for many years.
it is clear that we will have to have an intense debate, especially in view of the upcoming vote on the energy union report, where a similar clash of opinions can logically be expected.
‒ the report on energy security by algirdas saudargas was voted down.
i voted in favour of the report because i see energy security and independence as one of the most pressing issues for the eu, and therefore i regret that the ep decided to refuse this document.
a number of my amendments, especially in the areas of the competiveness of eu industry, finance for infrastructure projects and indigenous energy sources, were included in compromise amendments, and that is why i decided to vote in favour.
however, i voted against couple of amendments, especially on those calling on the commission to introduce binding targets for energy efficiency and new legislation in this field, which could potentially mean a new administrative burden.
i also voted against amendments which could prejudice the sovereignty of states in terms of energy mix, for example by promoting only certain energy sources.
‒ given the current situation, it is necessary to avoid the eu's dependence on russia and its energy resources by ensuring alternative supplies and better energy connectivity between member states.
however, this report contains points that i have voted against in the past, whether it be binding renewable energy and energy efficiency targets for 2030 or calls to decarbonise the mix and prioritise renewables.
i am convinced that nuclear energy makes a significant contribution to the eu's domestic electricity production.
like renewable energy, nuclear energy has a positive impact on the environment and can contribute to better energy security in the eu and its neighbouring countries.
for example, the eu recognises turkey as one of its important strategic partners, points to the growth in trade as well as direct investment from eu countries, and objectively assesses progress at different levels for 2014. however, there are also some passages in the report with which i cannot identify, such as the eu's concern about closer cooperation between turkey and russia in the field of energy, as well as other points where the eu is, in my view, unduly interfering in the internal affairs of the state.
‒ turkey is one of the eu’s most crucial strategic partners, all the more so in the context of the union’s heated debates on energy security, migration and efforts to find peaceful solutions.
turkey is a member of nato, but it is not a strategic partner for us in the field of security alone, but also in the energy field or in the migration field, given its position.
the black sea is also a strategic area for the european union in the energy and migration fields, and there is therefore a need for the eu to actively and uncompromisingly promote its interest in energy supplies independent of russia and the possibility of effective protection of the eu's external borders.
the fact that the euro area is unable to meet its objectives of sustainable growth, high employment, social progress and stability cannot be ignored.
without fundamental reform, the union will never become what it set out to be: a competitive, solidary, sustainable and democratic grouping.
the fund, as the financial backbone of the juncker investment package, is essential to break the economic stagnation and to promote sustainable and inclusive investment.
in particular, these will be economically and technically feasible projects focusing on infrastructure development, research, innovation, education or energy.
the latter is what i see as an important element for the czech republic, namely the possibility of reducing dependence on russian gas imports in connection with projects focusing on interconnecting energy systems.
the juncker investment plan will focus on the interconnection of broadband, energy and transport networks, and will also promote education, research and innovation, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
this fund, if correctly implemented and if the commission and member states deliver on their promise that it will attract additional investment in the fields of research, innovation, energy and transport, can then have a real added value and boost investments to enhance european competitiveness.
i therefore also supported the european parliament's stronger involvement in the european semester process, which must ultimately create a fairer economic, fiscal and social environment.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has therefore approved this report by a near majority, and this too shows that we have perhaps found a compromise which is possible.
i have been working quite intensively on the issue of waste management since my days in the national parliament, and i know how complex and treacherous this subject is, and that the old adage 'the road to hell is paved with good intentions' applies especially to this legislation.
i agree with him, but at the same time we must accept that milk producers face difficult conditions, demanding environmental and hygiene requirements, the effects of the russian embargo, a very unstable market and low milk purchase prices.
we all know that massive investments are required in developing countries in terms of infrastructure, energy supply or access to water.
what will happen to the 31 million jobs that depend directly on exports, and will europe continue to have to get its energy sources from authoritarian governments?
i voted in favour of the nomination of ms bettina michelle jakobsen as the new member of the european court of auditors, as i believe that she will bring a wealth of experience to the post from both the danish and international audit environment.
all european public transport operators should publish specific data sets, including all the information necessary to enable eu citizens to choose the most sustainable, cheapest or fastest mode of transport.
it also aims to help better integrate the different modes of transport and make more efficient use of existing infrastructure, which will in particular help to reduce air pollution and congestion.
i believe that such an initiative will contribute to the sustainability of european air, rail, sea and road transport.
the work of the committee is essential to highlight bad practices of member states and develop sustainable solutions to avoid this kind of behaviour happening again in the future.
at a time of reluctance across the eu to invest due to the difficult economic climate, the efsi should encourage public-private partnerships to flourish and unlock funds of up to eur 315 bn in the next three years.
it should lead to the improvement of infrastructure, including broadband and energy networks, provide vital financing for smes and get the continent growing again.
this will include investments in energy, environment, research and development and transport infrastructure.
the european parliament recommended a number of measures to better manage the end of quotas and to increase the future competitiveness of the milk and milk products sector, to find new export markets and to improve technologies for sustainable production.
i supported today the report on the eu milk and milk products outlook review of the implementation of the milk and milk products package, as it can help to improve the difficult situation of milk producers who may be affected by large fluctuations in milk prices or high energy costs, for example.
in the recent set of directives (no 2014/23, 2014/24, 2014/25) the commission has expressed its orientation towards promoting the private and public sectors in a deregulated environment without any obstacles to competitiveness.
this is of course in direct contradiction to the development and protection of social and environmental rights.
i believe that the private sector can only contribute to job creation and the well-being of local people if there is a clearly defined regulatory framework based on respect for and development of social rights, environmental protection and cultural diversity, as well as strong and efficient public services.
the majority of the producers are small and medium-sized businesses and collective action and coordination enhances their competitiveness, as well as environmental sustainability.
the allowance market can only serve to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the short term as a temporary complement to legally binding commitments in the area of climate protection.
in addition, we still lack legislation to address the problems of the segment of the economy most exposed to the dangers of carbon leakage.
the principle of reducing greenhouse gas emissions is based on political agreement, and we need political agreement at the highest level.
mr president, commissioner, the debate on how to proceed with the emissions trading system is very long and complicated in this parliament.
i am convinced that, despite the pre-defined rules for interfering with the allowance market, the system is not sustainable in the long term.
the debate and final vote in the committee on industry, research and energy on this report shows the need for far-reaching changes to the whole system of emission control solutions.
that is why i want to also highlight in this report the sustainability that is emphasised and based on the principle of the europe 2020 objectives that they adhere to.
i was particularly interested, madam president, in the commissioner's speech, where he spoke of coherent commitments, leverage and the political environment, but also of the universality of the development aid procedure, with the 0.7% of this aid to gdp not yet being the responsibility of all countries.
i believe that the commission is negotiating within the mandate given to it by the member states and that the european union will certainly not have to sacrifice its standards in the areas of data protection, health, food safety and the environment.
in the report the european parliament backs the commissioner’s negotiating position on maintaining the current standards we have in the eu especially in the area of food safety and environment.
i believe that a strong ttip would bring benefits for entrepreneurs, smes and consumers while at the same time creating a fruitful environment for investment and innovation in the eu.
i had hoped for a much greater emphasis on protecting workers' rights, the environment and health.
in my view, the report could have contained more recommendations on the environment, health and food, but as i have already said, this is a compromise, which is simply the best that this parliament could have agreed on by a majority.
these include, for example, the exclusion of public services, ensuring the protection of workers, the environment or respecting regulations on product safety and consumer rights.
as a shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee for industry, research and energy i closely followed the report and negotiations within the ep and i also gave my recommendations to the leading committee.
i strongly support four main priorities outlined by the alde group: ttip must remove bureaucratic hurdles for european businesses and create market access; advantage europe’s small and medium-sized enterprises; ensure high environmental, labour and food safety standards at the global level; and introduce a modernised investment protection mechanism.
it is time for sustainability policy to finally play a crucial role in the distribution of the generous remuneration of managers.
the report aims at encouraging long-term shareholder engagement as a way to contribute to the long-term sustainability of eu companies, but also to create an attractive environment for shareholders.
it includes the creation of a market stability reserve as of 1 january 2019 and an exemption for the so-called solidarity allowances allocated annually to new member states, which will be withdrawn from the market stability reserve until 2025. i know that compromise was born with difficulty, there has been a blocking minority in the council for a long time, and that is why i am glad that a solution has finally been adopted which will allow the situation on the emissions market to be unblocked and it will be able to fulfil its purpose once again, namely to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in an economically efficient way.
‒ there is no doubt that the current system for regulating greenhouse gas emissions has not met the expectations that were placed in it and that it needs to be significantly reformed.
i am pleased that the european parliament has supported the introduction of a mechanism called the market stability reserve, which should stimulate investors to make sustainable investment decisions in the long term.
i consider a functioning and above all stable system of allowance trading based on high flexibility to be an essential part of the eu's climate policy and of sustainable economic growth in general.
as a consequence, emissions should also be gradually reduced.
lastly, it will represent a welcome and, above all, desirable alignment between industrial and environmental policy today.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on establishment of the market stability reserve for the emissions trading system.
the emissions trading system was supposed to be an important step towards lowering the co2 emissions and was expected to serve as a best example of a system to fight against air pollution.
i am convinced that, despite the pre-defined rules for intervention in the allowance market, the system is not sustainable in the long term.
the eu must wake up from the illusions of zero emissions, full decarbonisation and 100% renewable energy.
a new agreement between the eu and switzerland was reached during the negotiations in 2014, granting switzerland ‘associated country’ status in some parts of horizon 2020 (excellent science, nuclear energy research) until the end of 2016 in exchange for a financial contribution.
it has thus amended the original proposal of the european commission in an attempt to make it even more effective, in particular by strengthening the social and environmental dimensions of the text.
this report correctly accepts the definition of 'green jobs' developed by the international labour organisation, which refers to them as decent jobs that reduce emissions, reduce energy and raw material consumption, minimise waste and pollution, and protect and restore ecosystems.
the proposal put forward by the green group and rapporteur jean lambert was strong, environmentally friendly and in favour of workers, and aimed to ensure that workers and their collectives were not left behind in the transition to a low-carbon or zero-carbon economy.
it states that the jobs created in the green economy must be of high quality and sustainable.
green jobs, according to the international labour organisation, are decent jobs that reduce energy and raw material consumption, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, minimise waste and pollution, and protect and restore ecosystems.
green jobs seek to respond to the biggest challenges: inefficient use of resources, unsustainable pressures on the environment and climate change, as well as social exclusion and social inequality.
i fully support the call for a coherent comprehensive policy framework to ensure a predictable environment for both training and investment.
these include investing in energy efficiency and energy poverty, which are long-standing topics in my parliamentary work.
for example, estimates of the impact of the energy performance of buildings directive on employment pointed to the creation of a possible two million jobs, many of which would not by their nature be transferred abroad.
to support green jobs, further reform of the green tax, energy and resource efficiency and an industrial strategy to support investment in innovation in eu industrial policy are needed with the ambitious aim of making the eu the most resource-efficient economy in the world.
during the votes i opposed references to ‘creating quality long-term jobs’ because the report already included provisions on ‘sustainable employment’.
‒ while i do not want to challenge efforts to improve environmental and climate protection, i strongly oppose artificial efforts to green the economy, especially in the form of state interventions and subsidies, which do not lead to more economic growth but will mean more bureaucracy, controls, increased costs and ultimately a deterioration of the eu's competitiveness on world markets.
tax havens and absolute bank secrecy, combined with zero taxation, always attract capital and income that should be taxed in other countries, creating harmful tax competition, undermining the fairness of tax systems, and affecting the environment in developing countries in particular.
in principle, i am in favour of the most modern and efficient waste management and resource use possible.
i supported the circular economy report because i consider the circular economy to be an important building block of a sustainable economy and therefore an important and strategic area to be tackled head on rather than with our backs turned.
i do not agree with the rejection of energy efficiency and waste management targets just because they would be difficult to achieve.
i am convinced that reducing energy consumption and making more efficient use of resources is in the interests of greater economic stability and raw material price stability in europe.
clearly setting long-term objectives and sticking to them is the best way to unlock the potential in these areas and minimise the short-term costs of changing the economy to a more responsible and sustainable way of working.
a 2025 waste reduction target for municipal, industrial and commercial waste), revise ecodesign rules (life, repairability, reusability and recycling), renew the waste directive (new binding impact targets could lead to the creation of up to 180 000 new jobs) and adopt measures to decouple growth from the use of natural resources, which the social democrats have strongly advocated.
i supported the report on moving towards a circular economy, as it is without doubt the only long-term sustainable path to future prosperity in europe.
only organic production, waste management, recycling and consumption reduction can ensure a good environment for us and future generations.
the report contains a number of recommendations on setting non-binding targets for energy efficiency, introducing common definitions and systems for waste sorting and waste management.
it deals also with the production phase, supporting the emergence of the market for secondary raw materials and the energy efficiency of buildings.
i consider the requirement to introduce mandatory separate collection of biological waste by 2020 to be problematic, the deadline is very difficult to meet.
‒ the european atomic energy community (euratom) is a comprehensive and autonomous body which oversees all aspects of the functioning of the nuclear industry, including the establishment and enforcement of safety standards for the protection of human health.
furthermore, the consequences of instability in yemen extend far beyond its borders, with terrorist cells such as al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula and the islamic state thriving amongst the current chaotic environment.
by voting for this report, i welcome the eed’s track record given the current challenging international environment.
i also consider that it is fulfilling its main objective of ‘fostering and encouraging democratisation and deep and sustainable democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation’.
for the future, i believe that the eed should continue to develop new innovative means and instruments for democracy assistance, including for political actors or activists, and to share best practices in order to adjust to the growing climate of restriction in a number of countries with authoritarian regimes.
the report draws on a wealth of knowledge from education systems and the business environment and concludes with a clear conclusion: entrepreneurial skills are required, can be taught and can be learned.
it has no environmental, social or health benefits, and therefore, fortunately, animal cloning for economic purposes is not currently used in the eu.
this is just a waste of money and more red tape without increasing animal welfare.
it points out that the original communication does not cover all the areas that make up the blue economy and that the ecosystem approach must also be taken into account.
i was pleased to hear her mention the importance of social enterprise as a major driver of social cohesion and sustainability, which can support the economy while alleviating poverty, social exclusion and other social problems.
in addition, the report stressed that cultural heritage contributes to innovative jobs, products, services and practices and can be a source of creative ideas, support a new economy and have a small impact on the environment, but only if it is managed appropriately.
it also refers to the sustainable use of cultural heritage, which must be properly cared for so that future generations can benefit from it.
as the shadow rapporteur of the original 2011 white paper on transport, i agree with the rapporteur that to create a single transport area that uses efficient and sustainable resources, it is first necessary to connect transport networks in all regions of the european union and to integrate different modes of transport.
as coordinator of the envi committee, i have strongly appreciated that energy efficiency improvements should be one of the main priorities of european transport policy.
like the rapporteur, i am therefore missing the promotion and development of public transport, which also promises to reduce the environmental burden of emissions, among the ten objectives of the white paper.
the common fisheries policy is causing an environmental disaster in eu seas and in the seas of third countries and cannot be supported.
the common fisheries policy is causing an environmental disaster in eu seas and in the seas of third countries and cannot be supported.
by this vote i call on the commission to seek guarantees that fishery in this area is exploited in a sustainable and responsible way.
by this vote i also called on the commission to seek guarantees that fishery in this area is exploited in a sustainable and responsible way.
the common fisheries policy is causing an environmental disaster in eu seas and in the seas of third countries and cannot be supported.
important topics include sustainable transport, housing policy and energy networks.
i agree with the argument that the eu's urban agenda should focus on the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and in particular on the themes of 'social inclusion, demographic change and sustainability'.
instead, $50 billion or more is spent each year on weapons, water is lost, and one of the worst environmental disasters in the world is being created.
we are full of energy, ideas and promise.
for the future, i think it is very important that regional policy and its cohesion component continue to focus on promoting sustainable growth, because this is the most important chapter in regional development for the european union, because only sustainable growth can be the basis of our future.
the eu's transport policy faces major challenges in the form of a shift towards more sustainable and energy-efficient modes of transport, the construction of modern infrastructure and the completion of the trans-european transport network.
in this context, the report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport rightly points to the need to develop the market for electric vehicles and alternative fuels (electricity, hydrogen, natural gas cng and lng, sustainable biofuels, in particular biofuels produced from waste and processing residues, including molasses-based ethanol) and to accelerate the deployment of the necessary infrastructure for vehicle charging and refuelling.
more efforts are needed to promote the development of sustainable electromobility across the union.
the strategy also aims to achieve a competitive and resource-efficient transport system and the related efforts to reduce emissions.
structural changes in transport can improve quality of life and the environment, while preserving people's freedom of movement and the competitiveness of eu industry.
improved transport networks is key to move towards a sustainable transport area.
a more balanced participation of women in science and research is vital for achieving the eu’s competitiveness and growth aims, but this can only be achieved by creating a social environment that balances work and family.
instead of quotas, let's build a social environment where women do not have to choose between being a good mother and being leaders in their fields.
they focus on social and often environmental goals.
mr president, the creation of the energy union is clearly a step in the right direction.
the creation of a flexible european energy system based on clean modern technologies does not pose a threat to our competitiveness.
in particular, the empowerment of consumers, whether households or businesses, is key to the new way of using and producing energy.
however, some proposals are unfortunately not ambitious enough to really contribute to our goal of moving to a low-carbon economy by 2050. it cannot be achieved without a significant increase in investment in new technologies and in the modernisation of european industry.
mr president, i am happy to support this commission programme for 2016 because i believe it really does answer the questions, whether economic, social or environmental.
and i also want to say that i supported this program precisely because it recognizes the risk of the so-called climate refugees.
this is not legal certainty, the list is not complete and the existing owners of land are not identified, and it also means that it is impossible to use an environmental strategy, to use natural resources and, above all, to tax property successfully.
as the popularity of methamphetamine has increased in recent years, coupled with increasing production capacity, the amount of toxic waste that ends up in uncontrolled water and wildlife is increasing, posing a significant threat to the environment, animals and human life and health.
among other things, it has a potential to foster innovation and the creation of new start-ups, in particular for small enterprises, combat counterfeit or imitation products and ensure more sustainable approach to economic development.
the aid to greece is to be implemented in a completely different way, for example by supporting the investment environment or perhaps by redirecting the implementation of certain european projects, for example in the energy sector.
‒ local authorities, more than any other actors, have a key role to play in achieving the post-2015 climate and development challenges.
they are frontline players as regards local governance, sustainable territorial development but also conflict prevention.
this report highlights their strategic role in promoting the 3 main dimensions of development: social, economic and environmental, while calling on the commission to facilitate decentralised cooperation, which is also what i see as the best way to implement the development framework post 2015.
in writing.
in the czech republic, an invention has been in existence for many years that eliminates 70% of emissions from motor vehicles.
in addition to removing the consequences, legislative measures are needed to ensure that the results of the test processes correspond to real driving values, not only for emissions but also for vehicle consumption.
i therefore call on the commission to reconsider its current lax and toothless approach, as the case itself is damaging not only european consumers but also the eu's position as a leader in the fight against climate change at the upcoming cop 21 in paris, as well as its potential to weaken the eu's negotiating position in the case of the ttip negotiations.
madam president, the european parliament and national legislatures have been working for a long time to limit the emissions of harmful substances from large sources above 50 mw and have achieved great success.
i think that the demand for reductions in sulphur emissions may have gone too far, since these limits may have a counterproductive effect in some countries.
the closure of small boilers, for example, may lead to the development of local coal-fired heating, which is much more difficult to control and where emissions are higher, but i will nevertheless support the proposal for a directive.
in our region, moravia-silesia, a significant part of the pollution is caused by local waste-to-energy plants, not only from our region but also from the polish border.
emissions reductions must be the concern of all, large and small, and of all the countries of the european union.
madam president, as individual measurements in the border areas of the member states show, some areas suffer from significant air pollution.
pollution from one country is thus carried to another, with many countries having different exemptions for small sources.
but at the same time, limiting emissions from a large number of these sources over a large area is a real problem.
to achieve real results in reducing air pollution, the issue needs to be approached in a comprehensive way, so that it is not just an administrative regulation, but that the incentives, including the necessary education, accompany each step.
this should stimulate the interest in modernising these sources, whether by promoting innovation or, for example, research into modern energy sources meeting the required stricter limits.
i think that the european union should first of all put things right in the area of air protection, the environment, which is very important to us today.
and that's the volkswagen case and the emissions manipulation.
i think we should only start the next stage of work once we know how the standards of european law on air pollution are actually being met in the existing legislation.
i supported the report on the directive on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air, which fills a gap in eu law and introduces emission controls for medium combustion plants such as boilers in apartment buildings and public buildings.
while achieving the targets will not be easy and will cost some countries considerable effort, i believe that this is the right path and at the same time an opportunity to ensure a healthier environment, to increase health protection for the european population and to invest in modern and clean technologies.
‒ i welcome the fact that the european parliament has today approved legislation to further reduce emissions.
i also see today's decision as a strong signal of the eu's clear priorities on air protection ahead of the upcoming climate summit in paris.
‒ i supported this report with the view to fill a legislation gap in which emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants are generally not yet regulated at the eu level.
the directive proposal is designed to reduce pollution by nox, so2 and dust by setting limit values for new and existing installations, together with a simple registration scheme, in order to help deliver a significant part of member states’ emission reduction obligations and avoid possible trade-offs between air quality and increased biomass use, which may result in higher air pollution.
the directive should apply to combinations formed by two or more combustion plants having a total rated thermal input equal to or greater than 1 mw and less than 50 mw, unless the combination is a combustion plant covered by chapter iii of directive 2010/75/eu on industrial emissions.
as shown by individual measurements in the border areas of the member states, some areas suffer from significant air pollution.
pollution from one country thus ends up in another country, often with different national exemptions.
but at the same time, limiting emissions from a large number of these sources over a large area is a real problem.
to achieve real results in reducing air pollution, the issue needs to be approached in a comprehensive way, so that it is not just an administrative regulation, but that the incentives, including the necessary education, accompany each step.
there is also a need to stimulate interest in modernising these sources, whether by promoting innovation or, for example, research into modern energy sources meeting the required stricter limits.
however, i am against those parts which impose on contractors the commission's views on labour or environmental law.
however, it should be borne in mind that not only is the removal of geoblocking one of the biggest challenges in creating a digital internal market, but consumers also face discrimination in the offline environment.
i supported this draft report because i see the vital importance of creating a single secure environment for such payments.
today marks the fifth anniversary of a major environmental event in hungary, when in october 2010 almost 1 million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud leaked, flooding several villages and killing 10 people and injuring 150. the text underlines the need to learn from such disasters, to take a responsible approach to environmental protection, calls on the commission to promote environmental inspections and also calls on the member states to place particular emphasis on the prevention of such disasters.
the catastrophe happened in october 2010, when a waste reservoir collapsed and released almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, flooded several villages, killed 10 people, injured almost 150, and polluted vast areas of land.
it calls, therefore, on the commission and the member states to ensure proper application of all relevant eu legislation and international conventions with regard to aluminium production and the environmentally sound management of red mud and hazardous waste in general.
i voted against this report, which is so incredible and bizarre that it could only have been born in the completely detached environment of the brussels eurocracy.
madam president, let us sum up what we have on the table forty-seven days before the paris climate conference: optimistic statements, the excellent report by gilla pargneaux, commitments negotiated or offered so far that are about half of what we would need, the weakness of replacing the revision clause with coal, the funding of climate action of 100 billion, but the reflections of the states, the reflections of those parties are very, very disparate so insufficient.
we have more global support for fossil fuels than we have for climate change mitigation, and yet many say we're being too ambitious.
thanks to gill pargneaux, we'll have a good position at the climate conference, and let's be clear, paris is our last chance.
if anyone needs a picture of the impact of climate change, let them multiply the current migration crisis by about a hundred.
we must find an international agreement which does not exclude european businesses from the competitive environment, that is what i wanted to ask for.
madam president, i have finally endorsed the european parliament's common position on the climate agreement.
this agreement is for me proof of the european union's will to combat climate change, which means, among other things, warming and the resulting environmental and economic impacts on all continents.
‒ today we discussed a report on the ambitious project to conclude an international agreement to combat climate change, which will be discussed at the cop 21 climate change conference to be held in paris in december 2015. i am convinced that the eu could play a mediating role and thus make a significant contribution to the conclusion of a legally binding and ambitious international climate agreement.
i too recognize the need to fight climate change on a global scale, and of course i recognize the critical importance of a stable climate system for food security, energy production, water and sanitation, infrastructure, biodiversity conservation, terrestrial and marine ecosystems, and global peace and prosperity.
‒ i supported the ep resolution on the forthcoming international climate conference in paris because i believe that the international community should make progress on the path to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i support the solution put forward by the ep in its resolution of 5 february 2014 calling for a binding 40% energy efficiency target, a 30% renewable energy target and a 40% greenhouse gas emission reduction target.
‒ i am pleased by the vote taken by parliament on the report for the paris climate agreement.
furthermore, we need to keep in mind the financial aspect of this agreement and have the eu and member states create a plan to scale up our climate financial goals.
this is an important part of the process in order for everyone to meet their fair share by 2020. in addition to increasing our financial support, we also need to increase the use of climate diplomacy.
i believe that comprehensive climate diplomacy can be a great tool to help bring about tangible change.
‒ i supported this own-initiative report, which sets out the position of the european parliament ahead of the climate summit in paris in december 2015. this complex document covers various aspects of the issue, such as climate change mitigation and adaptation, climate finance, the contribution of different sectors, scientific research and climate diplomacy.
it addresses emissions from different sectors including transport and agriculture and forestry.
the report holds that the agreement in paris must be legally binding and ambitious and should aim at phasing out global carbon emissions by 2050 or shortly thereafter in order to keep the world on a cost-effective emission trajectory compatible with the below-2°c target.
the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a ‘research agenda’ for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas in order to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability.
i am convinced of the need to address social inequalities in order to build a strong and sustainable public health system, and in this regard i welcome the idea of introducing publicly funded universal health care, provided free of charge at the point of delivery, and i join the urgent call on the commission to present, together with partner countries and other donors, as soon as possible a programme for the introduction of universal health insurance, which would guarantee the distribution of health risks.
‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution because i believe that we need to assure our citizens that we do care about the interests of consumers, car owners, but also all of us who are exposed to air pollution.
i supported the resolution on emission measurements in the motor vehicle industry because i am one of those who are calling for the current dieselgate emissions scandal to be taken to its logical conclusion and for clear ways of improving the situation to be found.
the manipulation of information on their cars' emissions has a major impact on the environment and on the health of citizens, and it is important to remember that limits are not there to burden manufacturers, but to protect the environment for all of us.
the eu must send a clear signal ahead of the upcoming climate summit in paris, where it is set to persuade other countries to make further environmental commitments, that it is capable of meeting its own commitments not just on paper but in practice.
the statement calls on companies to take full responsibility for their actions and to fully cooperate with the authorities in all investigations, and condemns the fact that many consumers have been misled by false information about the emissions produced by their vehicles.
i personally requested that clear provisions be inserted to address the significant concerns about the potential impacts of the emissions allowance on the entire supply chain and the rank and file, and i welcome the fact that the resulting text is clear on these issues as well.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on emissions from the automotive sector.
it is necessary to introduce a new test cycle based on measurement of emissions in real-use conditions.
furthermore, it urges the commission to adopt and implement the new real driving emissions test cycle for all pollutants without any further delay and to bring it into force for regulatory purposes within six months.
i believe that a sustainable deal on ceasefire and other elements will only be achieved if we use the threat of targeted sanctions against the political leaders who do not stick to the agreement.
mr. chairman, i would have signed off on everything the rapporteur said if we were in the environment committee after the vote.
in my, opinion, these objectives are well justified, and the dedication of more resources is crucial if we want to implement sustainable solutions to the migration crisis.
although decisions have been taken in the past that seemed rational in the context of the time, the union can no longer afford to continue to waste resources that could be better invested elsewhere.
i supported the increase in funding for health and environmental programmes because their importance was again ignored by the council.
this will provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation, focused on promoting the development, conservation, rational management and best utilisation of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at sustainable levels and at low risk of collapse.
‒ in december 2013 the commission presented a proposal on the directive on national emissions reduction commitments.
while i am very much in favour of limiting air pollution, in order to protect the health of eu citizens and the environment, i am opposed to strengthening the reduction targets and making the intermediate 2025 targets binding.
i voted in favour of the deletion of methane and mercury from the scope of the directive and i voted against higher reduction targets proposed by the committee on environment, public health and food safety, as these could have a significant impact on eu industry.
from the security perspective, the key aspect of this strategy is to support the diversification of the eu's energy resources.
the aim of the strategy is to foster mutual cooperation among the countries and pursue their prosperity and sustainable development.
the report sets out priorities in the fields of blue growth focusing on marine governance; regional interconnectedness, mainly in terms of transport and energy; quality of environment; and tourism.
i would like to reiterate that this tool is a long term growth and jobs strategy to help push the eu forward in terms of employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability, education, and fighting poverty and social exclusion.
in the energy field today, there's no reason to save light, it's wasted.
our political group in the european people's party has called for the development of real-life emissions tests while maintaining sufficient flexibility to enable the automotive industry to adapt technically.
i was fundamentally against setting targets for methane emissions and strict limits for ammonia, because these measures are unnecessary and harmful to farmers.
parliament failed to express its views on eu economic governance – a topic of great importance in the current economic climate.
i am convinced that the need for a responsible and sustainable fiscal policy is absolutely indisputable, as is the need for structural reforms in many countries.
importantly, it calls on the commission and the member states to assess how to support business development and investment plans to create sustainable and quality jobs for the long-term unemployed.
comprehensive support for the tourism sector, which generates 10% of eu gdp and employs 13 million workers, not only contributes to sustainable economic growth and employment, but also highlights europe's rich cultural diversity and strengthens european identity.
i believe that it is absolutely right that the treaties do not allow for the adoption of uniform union legislation in the tourism sector, but i do recognise that some degree of cooperation, exchange of experience or also coordinated application of lessons learned from this experience is appropriate, since to some extent the european union as a whole is exposed to the competitive environment of other destinations in the world and this competitive environment needs to be addressed.
i also lack the toughness against social dumping and unequal working conditions, which together with the enormous pressure on the workload of employees, co-create an environment that threatens aviation safety.
it is also necessary to promote innovation in the field of air traffic control (atc) of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas), the use of alternative fuels, aircraft and engine design (higher efficiency, lower noise), airport safety (contactless solutions and one-off checks against unlawful acts), digitalisation and multimodal solutions (computer-controlled ground handling) and at the same time it is important to promote environmental protection, such as global market-based measures to reduce co2 emissions from international aviation.
i am therefore pleased that the commission (and vice-president šefčovič personally) is fully committed to the energy union.
we need interconnectors, and that's why i welcome the energy projects under the cef approved last week as you mentioned.
the second point concerns energy security, which should be based on the principle of solidarity.
the issue of decarbonisation needs to be approached with common sense, respecting the specificities of certain countries, especially those with a high share of coal in the energy mix, and its importance for heating, for example.
and also respect nuclear energy as a low-carbon energy source vital to many countries.
we must avoid the negative effects of our policies, such as high energy prices and deindustrialization.
the energy union, on the other hand, must be the impetus for an open energy market that will help the competitiveness of member states and our industry.
but in order to achieve energy union, i believe that we need a reform of the electricity market; and in order to do so, with the new market design, i think we need three elements to be in mutual balance.
the first one is – and we need to pay really extraordinary attention to it – to provide for a secure integration of decentralised and renewable resources into the electro-energetic systems, and also to create appropriate conditions for those consumers that do produce energy for their own private consumption.
the second element is that we need to renew the price signals to investors and thereby secure a sufficient amount and volume of energy resources.
mr president, the energy union is primarily a matter of energy security.
the second point concerns nuclear energy.
the energy security of the european union cannot be achieved without nuclear energy, and here we really need to do everything we can to increase the share of nuclear energy.
you have to have a supply of energy resources for the time of a possible crisis, for the time of unforeseen events.
that's the lesson of 2009.
mr president, i agree with all the speakers who have said that the energy union project has already brought about a number of positive changes this year and certainly has tangible results.
some of your key proposals will be presented next year, such as a revision of the energy efficiency directive, the building efficiency directive or the renewable energy directive.
one of them, and i think one of the biggest problems with the energy union, is that the price of electricity for end-users in the european union, with the possible exception of japan, is the highest in the world.
and i think that, given the profound implications for a number of industries that are exposed to strong foreign competition, the energy union should change that.
the second area to be mentioned is the way in which the energy union will be managed.
for example, energy efficiency, which is one of our key priorities and the entire pillar of this project.
i welcome the fact that the commission's first state of the energy union report addresses not only strategic issues of safety, efficiency and infrastructure but also equally important issues of social justice in the energy sector, with an overall emphasis on strengthening the role of consumers.
i consider it important that the achievement of ambitious climate and energy targets is consistent with the commitment to a more important role for end-users in energy markets, in particular in terms of more affordable prices.
the social democrats have long called for tackling energy poverty and helping vulnerable consumers to access affordable energy.
we need concrete measures that will lead to a reduction in household energy expenditure and to household energy savings, for example by simplifying conditions allowing consumers to compare tariffs and choose the most advantageous supplier.
the european union pursues a very active fisheries policy and is involved in all regional fisheries organisations to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
this move should further the eu’s contribution to the sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal and unregulated fishing.
in addition, i also call on the eu and the un to increase their efforts to reach an ambitious and legally binding agreement at the paris climate conference.
on the other hand, as vice-chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have considerable reservations about the decision to reduce the amount of commitments in the budget chapter 'food and feed safety' by more than eur 11 million.
mr president, let me first thank the rapporteur, my colleague martin, for the great energy he has invested in this report.
they face high energy prices, loss of global competitiveness, carbon leakage and job losses.
we should create a business-friendly regulatory environment and encourage investment in research and development of new technologies.
and that's adhering to certain standards, whether it's worker protection, favorable working conditions, favorable environment.
this means how well individual countries and individual manufacturers comply with the requirements to comply with environmental protection standards.
since it is not chemically bound to artificial materials, it is easily released into the environment.
moreover, it is not chemically bound to the plastic and can leak to the environment.
‒ over the last year the european union has been working on the drawing up of an improved framework for a safe and healthy environment.
it has excellent energy potential, electricity is now georgia's main export item more than wine or brandy.
it is not only a country with great energy potential, but also a key ally and partner for europe in the caucasus.
and it took so little for this promised land to flourish, both in climate and soil quality.
as in the case of the agreement with the two south american countries, the european union is also able to press for greater emphasis on human and labour rights or environmental issues by ecuador.
on the other hand, it invites the commission and the european external action service to play an active role in guaranteeing sustainable development.
the current facts are: the waste package has been stuck in the council, the eu has been split, we have member states with a pretty bad record on waste management, we have falsification of data, we have differing data, we do not have definitions, etc.
the question of product durability, repairability, but also, for example, the impact of the constant replacement of consumer goods on the environment, has recently come to the forefront of consumer policy issues in the eu, and i therefore consider it important to respond to questions such as the obsolescence of products or spare parts.
the commission has already done so today on waste.
i have questions about sustainable urban mobility plans, for example, and i am opposed to the idea of banning first diesel engines and then all conventional fuel vehicles.
i certainly agree that sustainable urban transport is needed, mobility is very important.
for these too, a safe infrastructure with adequate space for their movement must exist in the first place, in order to make our call for the use of sustainable mobility methods credible.
‒ today we voted on a report on sustainable urban mobility.
urban transport is responsible for up to 25% of all co2 emissions and is a sector where greenhouse gas emissions are constantly increasing.
the urban environment is thus continually deteriorating, with adverse effects on human health, not to mention the number of road accidents that particularly affect vulnerable road users and the noise that is also associated with traffic.
the report supports the construction of cycle paths as well as increased support for rail transport and calls for the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i supported the report on urban mobility, among other reasons, because i believe that we need to look for ways to move towards sustainable modes of transport and create the conditions for a greater use of alternative means of transport and less polluting vehicles, taking into account their real carbon footprint.
air pollution in cities poses significant health risks to their inhabitants and ultimately reduces the quality of urban life.
‒ i am pleased by the result of the vote on sustainable urban mobility.
i agree that long-term sustainable urban mobility planning is essential for cities to continue to provide safe and efficient service for their citizens.
it is also beneficial in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as noise pollution, air pollution, and accident reduction.
i encourage member states to carry out sustainable mobility plans in order to achieve these goals in their respective cities.
‒ i voted for the report on sustainable urban mobility because it highlights and promotes sustainable urban mobility at european level.
it points out that the development of sustainable urban mobility plans, further supported by information and communication technologies, is important in order to create an efficient and safe transport network, while reducing co2 emissions, noise and making urban transport efficient with the least negative impact on the environment.
‒ i supported this report which, in the context of an ever-growing urban population, aims at drawing up the framework for a sustainable urban mobility which would reduce pollutant emissions while strengthening mobility in itself.
the report welcomes the existing eu tools and objectives (sustainable urban mobility plans, its, white paper, cef, eu projects) and encourages member states and the commission to make better use of them and allocate more funds to their development.
furthermore, member states should be encouraged to work with local authorities to target financial support for sustainable projects effectively.
we are of course pleased that the commission is working intensively on the energy union project, so that three weeks ago we were informed in plenary about the progress of implementation.
opinions differ on what the details of the energy union should look like, as the past debate has shown.
the energy union is to be based on a robust common energy market.
however, market-based instruments should be supported, where necessary, by solidarity mechanisms with member states that are currently heavily dependent on a single energy supplier.
in this context, the report expresses concern about the planned doubling of nord stream's capacity and the possible negative impacts on energy security, diversification of supply and the principle of solidarity between member states.
the report also stresses the need to ensure long-term energy supplies through ukraine.
the commission must guarantee full compliance with european union competition law and energy legislation, including the third energy package.
it must not lead to higher energy prices, energy poverty, deindustrialisation of the european economy or an increase in unemployment.
at the same time, the exclusive right of member states to choose their energy mix must be respected.
the key objective should be to reduce co2 emissions, but it is up to the member states to choose the path to achieve this.
in this context, i would like to stress that we must also respect nuclear energy as a low-carbon energy source that is vital for many countries.
i have mentioned the objectives of the european union, and i can see that energy efficiency is a sensitive issue.
the report does not call for binding targets for the member states and i believe that this compromise reached in the committee on industry, research and energy will be maintained.
i would just like to emphasize the strengthening of national networks so that there is no energy overflow through neighbouring countries.
mr president, just one remark on the energy union report, mr gróbarczyk’s report.
i also like the emphasis on nord stream 2, a project which i find is being settled in a way that is not compatible with the energy union.
i think that this is a report which really fits in with the energy union objective.
i believe that we need to reflect of course on the ‘energy islands’ that we have referred to, but also on what the market flows are.
commissioner, first of all, i'd like to thank you for your role during the paris climate conference.
i would never have expected such a position from you during your hearing before the committee on industry, research and energy, and i thank you very sincerely for your role.
i believe that the energy union, if it is to be an ambitious project, must ensure competitiveness, our energy security and minimise environmental and climate impacts.
the whole project has a number of objectives, but i would like to highlight only two, those which i consider to be the core of the whole project and by which the success of the energy union will be measured.
the first is that the energy union will be a success if we can get rid of our dependence on fossil fuels in the next three, four or five decades.
mr president, we have heard a range of views on the various aspects of the energy union today.
but i think we can all agree on one thing: the european union needs energy, and the energy union can help us to take our competitiveness and future security to the next level.
a well-functioning energy market should then benefit everyone, consumers and industry.
i think that the whole report has been very well characterised by mr petersen, who said that it is a report which has balanced ambition and realistic vision together on such a complex matter as energy within europe.
i would therefore like to thank the shadow rapporteurs once again on behalf of my friend mr gróbarczyk and to reiterate my hope that we will be able to adopt, vote on a balanced report tomorrow which will bring all these energy interests together and not divide and divide in such a complex area as energy.
i don't want to question the environmental significance of scrapping, but there are areas where it can happen with relatively little impact on health and the environment.
but as far as energy security is concerned, that is one of the european union's permanent tasks, and it is essential to me that the other european union procedures follow or fulfil the five pillars on which energy security must stand.
it must be about secure energy supplies, and i insist that decarbonisation, a competitive economy and affordable energy sources must be an essential part of this.
under these conditions, i will of course continue to support the creation of this energy union and energy security in the european union.
‒ the energy market should be a full-fledged component of the eu internal market, fully functioning, competitive and secure.
current fragmentation of national energy markets creates obstacles for more competitiveness and raises concerns over energy security in europe.
on the other hand, i cannot agree with raising the energy efficiency targets high above the level agreed on the member states level which is, in my opinion, a well-balanced and realistic compromise.
the energy union project does not respect the individual energy needs of individual countries and, under the guise of solidarity, seeks to put some at a disadvantage.
‒ i supported the report because i believe that concrete steps must be taken to create an energy union, but that steps must not be taken that undermine this effort.
for this reason, i have expressed my opposition to the proposed doubling of the nordstream pipeline capacity and, on the contrary, i am convinced of the need to find solutions that do not have a negative impact on energy security and diversification of supply.
i would welcome the creation of a mechanism to strengthen the commission's role in negotiations concerning energy supply involving one or more member states and third countries, including the ex ante assessment of commercial contracts for gas supply.
only a common approach to the negotiation of gas supply contracts can lead to a supply system that is profitable and sustainable for the eu as a whole.
‒ as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy, i am very pleased that an important report on the energy union has been passed in the european parliament.
european countries must move away from fossil fuel-based energy and move more progressively towards an efficient energy mix with respect for the environment and sustainable development.
this, together with the requirement to integrate energy markets, increase security of supply and reduce consumption, forms the basis of the energy union, which should lead in the first instance to a reduction of energy import dependency.
the energy union will not only help us to transform our economy into a greener, lower carbon economy, but will also have a positive impact on industry, transport, lower energy prices for households and consumer protection.
i supported the report entitled 'towards a european energy union' because it addresses a number of specific aspects that are important for the implementation of the energy community reform towards the internal energy market and the so-called european energy union.
in addition to the key themes of energy security, efficiency, support for research and innovation or investment in infrastructure, the report also highlights the social aspects of the energy market, including the consideration of end-users or the need to address energy poverty and the empowerment of vulnerable consumers.
‒ i voted in favour of the report ‘towards an european energy union’.
the energy union is one of the most important projects which would, in the long run, ensure energy security and independence of the eu.
the report calls for higher energy efficiency, increased use of renewables, diversification of supply, more active use of european energy resources, proper energy connectors between member states, renovation of infrastructure networks and buildings.
of particular importance is to undertake further actions to build a fully integrated, synchronised and well-functioning internal energy market based on a market approach as well as solidarity and coordination mechanisms.
i voted in favour of all compromises approved by the itre committee and i also voted in favour of those compromises concerning recognition of nuclear energy as one of the important contributors to the low-carbon european energy mix.
i however did not support amendments calling for binding energy efficiency targets.
my former colleague marek gróbarczyk did a very good job on the energy union report and managed to negotiate a balanced text on the ecr.
i personally consider the energy union to be an important project and the report adopted contains a number of important points.
unfortunately, amendments were also tabled which upset the original balance, and i am thinking in particular of the binding energy efficiency targets for the member states.
i supported this report on my own initiative because interconnection of electricity networks is not only one of the essential conditions for completing the eu's integrated internal market for electricity, but will also contribute to meeting climate objectives and, last but not least, to enhancing energy security and stability in the event of disruptions to energy supplies.
‒ i am convinced that renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and a sustainable mix of energy sources will lead to energy savings and the establishment of an internal energy market that allows the free flow of energy, thus ensuring a stable, secure and, above all, competitive eu energy system.
current intensive fishing is causing the disappearance of entire species and the consequent instability of the marine and ocean biological environment, which is also affected by, among other things, climate fluctuations and changes.
the 2013 cfp reform has made considerable progress, but there is still a need to improve and, above all, simplify measures in order to achieve maximum sustainable yield through an ecological approach.
the paris agreement is certainly a partial victory for all those who wanted to prevent the catastrophe that global warming would surely cause.
the agreement, in my view, does not meet the core principle of fairness, and it is very important that we prove that the global climate fund will be able to be filled with the 100 billion after 2020 that we have committed to.
as a former economist, i am sure that the current situation is not sustainable and i believe that no country is currently benefiting from the current situation or will benefit from it in the future.
china is developing a more constructive stance on global issues, including the environment and climate change.
it recognises more the importance of the universal nature of human rights, but the results are not yet what we would like, particularly in relation to religious minorities, whether christian or not, and to the situation in tibet, where there is also environmental damage and cultural and political oppression.
in my view, china should also be encouraged to change its economic model to a sustainable economy with a focus on environmental protection.
efsa delivered a positive opinion on the gmo stating that the maize is as safe as its non-gm comparator and non-gm conventional maize varieties with respect to potential effects on human and animal health and the environment in the context of its scope.
china is a partner in areas such as counter-terrorism, illegal migration, transnational crime, nuclear non-proliferation, cybersecurity, weapons of mass destruction, energy security, global financial sector and market regulation and climate change, but this does not mean that the eu will not speak up in cases where civil rights defenders, lawyers, journalists, bloggers, academics and other civil society representatives are persecuted and their freedoms are restricted in china.
it underlines that the whs outcome document should include a five-year roadmap for concrete political commitments undertaken, linking the post-2015 development agenda, the sendai framework for disaster risk reduction and the 2015 united nations climate change conference (cop 21).
that includes the possibility of using eu funds in order to raise energy efficiency through training of workers in the application of low-carbon technologies.
- i'm concerned about the harmonisation of subsidies to companies to reduce carbon dioxide.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources.
i am also convinced that the european base metal industry must adapt to the new climate, economic and social situation and become a model of efficiency and effectiveness in the consumption of energy and raw materials.
this should be done by fair regulatory measures at the border, so that we can know the carbon content of each product.
the most important thing for me as a social democrat is that the european base metal industry should set an example in terms of the environment and minimize its impact on both workers and the people living in the surrounding area.
‒ europe needs a strong industry if it wants to definitely exit the crisis and find again sustainable growth.
indeed, the general aim of the report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry is to identify the new conditions under which base metal industries, such as steel, aluminium and non-ferrous metals, can prosper in europe.
if bosnia wants to become self-sustainable and avoid political paralysis, there needs to be a comprehensive constitutional reform.
we are focusing as the european union on supporting energy, infrastructure.
i consider it necessary to speed up the introduction of a real-drive emissions test (rde) which will be in line with european legislation and will not allow for more significant deviations from the emission values set.
the automotive industry should be given room for appropriate response and self-regulation, in which it can act constructively and in an environment of legal certainty.
with this inquiry the european parliament will seek to establish whether the institution failed to meet its obligations under article 14 of regulation 715/2007 on the responsibilities of the commission in monitoring the national test cycles used to measure emissions.
the report calls on the european union to take ‘measures appropriate for tackling serious violations of human rights committed in third countries, particularly those by authoritarian regimes, as well as those in the field of trade relations, energy and security’.
i note with regret that, 20 years after the end of the war, successive governments have failed to build a fully functioning, self-sustainable state.