of course, i could go on and on about the results, the climate and energy agreement, the transition policy from mare nostrum to triton, the institutional transition carried out despite the negative auspices in a climate of positive cooperation, the automatic mechanisms to combat evasion, the investment in a different policy of international cooperation, the declassification, which was and is so dear to this parliament, of the negotiating agreements for ttip, gmos, even with some defeats, i believe, mr president schultz, that it is a defeat that is on the made in commitments that this parliament, understood as the institution because it was in april last year but nevertheless this parliament understood as the institution it assumed by asking the council and the commission to become promoters have not been brought to a positive result.
i would like to express my gratitude to all those who have contributed to this compromise, in particular to our shadow rapporteur elisabeth köstinger, as coordinator of the epp, and to giovanni la via, who has guided the trilogue very skillfully as chairman of the committee on the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the environment.
before authorisation, gmos are subject to a complete set of checks by efsa to ensure that they do not present any risk to human or animal health or the environment.
we are building access to future technologies that would enable crops to adapt to the effects of climate change and could help to feed the rapidly growing world population despite the limited agricultural land available.
in march, we will discuss the european economy, the energy union and our approach to russia, including in the context of the eastern partnership summit in riga in may.
we will conquer the challenges facing us with energy and optimism or not at all.
it would be nice if we in the council, and i am sure you will try to do that, could create a climate in which it could be said: 'we have moved europe forward and we have moved it.'
emerging crimes, like wildlife trafficking, illegal waste trafficking or trafficking in cultural goods, have also been identified by the council as areas which need attention.
by preventing and combating crime in all its forms, the european union will contribute to creating a safer europe and a more trustworthy environment for its citizens and businesses.
the estimated 3 600 organised crime groups involved in serious transnational crime in the eu are involved in many types of crime, including economic crime, corruption and money laundering, cybercrime and environmental crime.
creating an attractive investment environment is our shared responsibility.
the need for an energy union has been felt in europe for a long time.
we need an energy policy based on solidarity, trust and security, a better integrated energy infrastructure and more efficient governance.
the establishment of the energy union will be one of the priorities of the latvian presidency.
it shall also promote the security and trustworthiness of the digital environment.
we will focus on the european union's contribution to the un summit on sustainable development and poverty reduction in 2015. the latvian presidency will work towards a common security and defence policy that is responsive to global challenges.
to me, the ringstone is a symbol of confidence, stability and energy.
we are not sitting idly by on the energy union.
the energy union will be on the agenda on 25 february, with digital europe scheduled for june.
if that is the measure of your presidency and if that is the measure of creating a climate in europe which is favourable to investment, then i can only tell you that you will have the full support of our group.
i hope and wish that what you are planning to do - to create a climate favourable to investment, to ensure that people invest the money they have because they have confidence in politics - will in the end also mean the opportunity for the broad masses of people in europe to find jobs, prosperity and happiness.
today those values are being challenged from the outside as well as from the inside of the union, and the ambition of the latvian presidency, mirrored by the ambition i hear today in parliament and by the ambition of the commission, is to face the challenges and give an answer to them: to make sure that more people get jobs in europe, that our rule of law is strengthened in europe, that we are stronger in order to face outside threats, and that we use the potential of the energy union, of the digital single market and of all the things that will create a stronger european economy.
during the presidency, we will seek to shape the political process and to achieve a peaceful and sustainable solution to the conflict in ukraine, respecting national independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity.
and of course i agree with mr jean arthuis on the regulation of the investment environment.
we then had a number of colleagues ask us questions about the energy union.
i would like to thank all those who supported this priority of ours, which is one of the conditions for competitiveness, and the latvian presidency will continue to work towards the creation of the energy union.
the key elements of the new energy union must be solidarity between member states, a well-functioning and well-connected internal energy market, strong energy diplomacy, competitive energy and energy independence, and, as some have already mentioned, governance issues.
the second important topic of the conference is to be energy security.
the latvian presidency has made the 'establishment of an energy union' a priority, so this is also a good fit in terms of content.
i have started doing that already in these first two months, and i am planning to do it even more, in a broader sense, when it comes to foreign, security and defence policy, but also security internally – counter-terrorism – and also justice and other challenges that we have before us, be they migration, energy, climate, transport, trade, the economy, or even culture and education.
let me conclude by just saying that i know some of you might have expected me to go through that 23-page list and to remind you again that i am ready to discuss with you – be it on our engagement with latin america, where i will be in a couple of weeks’ time to prepare the eu celac summit, or on climate change, where we will have on monday an action plan for diplomacy to prepare for the paris summit in december, or counter-terrorism again, where we will work in coordination with the interior and justice ministers – but also, i think, have an intercultural and inter-religious exercise to be developed over the next months, more on the internal side but also involving players in the region; or, obviously, a discussion on ukraine and russia, which we will have just after this discussion today; or our relations with asia or africa, where again i will be participating in the african union summit in less than two weeks.
the alignment of the post-2015 sustainable development goals makes the need for a coherent development policy all the more urgent.
this means, first and foremost, that development cooperation is closely linked to other policy areas such as human rights, immigration and refugee policy, climate change, conflict management, but also - and above all - trade policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- i welcome the s&d resolution on the commission's 2015 work programme, as it addresses the strengthening and sustainability of european social policy.
the creation of good, sustainable work is mentioned as the european union's top priority.
however, it is perhaps the third pillar – improving the investment environment – that will ultimately be the most important in terms of fostering private investments.
as you know, the plan is not designed to solve every single problem in the euro area or the european union – from macroeconomic shocks to deflation, energy security and local authorities’ debt problems – but it is a step in the right direction and, most importantly, it has been designed in the most flexible way so that it can grow.
projects under this initiative will need firstly to be economically viable with the support of the initiative, secondly to be sufficiently mature to be appraised on a global or local basis, and thirdly to be of european added value and/or consistent with eu policy priorities such as the europe 2020 strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth, the 2030 climate and energy package and other long-term eu strategic priorities.
the commission will come forward with further proposals on the energy union, the digital single market, the capital market union and an internal market strategy for goods and services in the course of this year.
it bears witness to the common determination of all three eu institutions to deliver promptly to european citizens on the ambitious investment plan, a plan that should promote sustainable growth and job creation.
there were also questions about the use of the finance and the role of smart investments and sustainable projects and – importantly – horizontal questions about democratic legitimacy, the role of parliament and the responsibility of member states.
the presidency is ready to act not only on the proposal to establish the fund but also in the area of removing barriers and bottlenecks in the internal market, most notably in the fields of energy union, the digital economy and, indeed, the capital markets union.
jobs must not be created for the purpose of lowering unemployment rates in the short term, but must be under the guise of sustainability.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on the roadmap for a new paris agreement on climate change (2015/2521 ((rsp)).
i have to say, i'm glad that now the european external action service has woken up to the fact that we're developing a kind of climate diplomacy on the way to paris.
the new commission has brought the idea of an energy union into play.
i think it should be a climate and energy union, because that's what a shoe is.
we must also organise this internationally, and that is why we are very keen to reach an international agreement and thus ensure that the 520 million europeans have a sustainable and secure energy supply, but also that we push the issue of jobs, namely green energy, because it is precisely in this area that jobs are to be created, and there is a huge potential.
because nobody in paris is going to take us down if we can't get the emissions trading system up and running.
we cannot let this go on as in the committee on industry, where everything is being pushed to the wall, but where colleagues in the committee on the environment will have to ensure that we reach a responsible compromise at the end of the day, so that we do not have to be ashamed in paris, but can show that we have done the preliminary work in this direction.
many of them concentrated on the need for climate finance.
climate finance will be a key part of our work in 2015 because public finance will determine in part our credibility in the negotiations.
the european union already has a good story to tell because in 2013 alone, as i said, the union and its member states provided eur 9.5 million in climate finance, including grants and loans from development banks and financial institutions in the member states.
the eu member states also made almost half of the pledges for the green climate fund.
public grant finance should be used to support the poorest and most vulnerable countries but it must also be used to leverage private investment in low-emission and climate-resilient technologies.
some members asked how we are going to coordinate with the sustainable development goals process.
financing for development and climate finance must go hand in hand.
we can be successful only if we integrate climate objectives into national development and into our development and cooperation portfolios.
we work closely with our colleagues in development cooperation and with developing countries to ensure that the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the climate processes recognise and make use of the synergies between development and climate action.
the union has made a commitment that at least 20% of its entire budget for 2014-2020 should be spent on climate-relevant projects, and this provision applies not only to the union’s internal spending but also to our development cooperation budget.
it is planned that the finance ministers will discuss climate finance in the ecofin council, and we expect ecofin council conclusions on climate finance in the second half of 2015. there was a specific question on how we were going to handle land use with regard to the intended nationally determined contributions (indc).
i can tell members that land use will be part of the european union indc because the indc will be a translation of the october european council conclusions on the 2030 climate and energy framework, and they are clear that lulucf (land use, land use change and forestry) lulucf is covered in the eu target of domestic in-house emissions reduction of at least 40%.
the question is not ‘if’ but ‘how’ to do it, because we have to design good accounting rules, building on and streamlining existing approaches, and they have to ensure environmental integrity and foster ambitious climate action in the land sector.
many polish members have expressed concern about whether our climate ambitions could hamper the development of industry.
i have to tell them that the agreement reached at the october council was unanimous and, specifically in relation to that point, when we were discussing the conditions of the emissions trading scheme (ets) the policy situation was taken into account.
there are also the questions of climate finance and the legal form and force of the future agreement.
still to be determined, too, are the extent to which, and how, the 2015 agreement will address controversial issues such as adaptation to the impacts of climate change, and dealing with loss and damage when those impacts occur, promoting or regulating international carbon markets and establishing how we are going to save them.
that is why it is important that this parliament is able to deliver soon on the carbon market and the stability reserve, so that we will arrive in paris with a credible proposal on the basis that we have put into action an efficient carbon market and have given clear signals to industry to move in the direction of a low-carbon economy.
- mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for this debate which confirms the importance and urgency of the international negotiations in 2015 towards reaching an agreement on the post-2020 climate regime in paris.
when it comes to announcements by the united states and china, i would like to stress that the us-china announcement was very important in that it is the first time that the two biggest emitters, representing 43% of global emissions, jointly announced future mitigation commitments, and in that they did so more than a year before the paris conference.
you also mentioned the climate and energy policy framework 2013. the long-awaited agreement on the 2013 climate and energy framework shows the eu’s determination to respond to climate change with ambitious targets and effective measures.
the roadmap towards paris will show our obligations and intentions in the international context, and the forthcoming proposals on the energy union will be more focused on internal eu processes.
still, i would like to use this opportunity to share with you a few points on the energy union.
the establishment of the energy union is one of the priorities of the latvian presidency, as was also made clear by our prime minister at the european parliament’s plenary session two weeks ago.
we need an energy policy that is based on solidarity, trust and security, a better-integrated energy infrastructure, more efficient governance and sustainability.
as you know, the european council in december called on the commission to present a comprehensive energy union proposal before the march european council, and the presidency will lead the discussions in the council to prepare the endorsement of a strategy by the european council in march.
2015 is a crucial year in the international climate domain and is important for international negotiations on sustainable development.
the global agreement on combating climate change has to be achieved in paris.
successful international negotiations on climate change will be one of the priorities of the latvian presidency.
this will also be an important year for setting the international sustainable development agenda.
in order to be fully prepared, the latvian presidency intends to organise a discussion at the march environmental council on better integration of the environmental dimension in the post-2015 process.
therefore this year will be important, not only to the climate process.
the outcome of the last climate summit in lima was only a minimal consensus, and the road to a global climate agreement in paris is becoming rocky.
this will be a test of the european union's standing in the world and the eu's ability to conduct climate diplomacy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy.
after the fiasco of the copenhagen climate summit, europe cannot afford a second embarrassment.
otherwise, humanity risks losing the race against time to limit global warming to two degrees.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
otherwise, we are undermining the obligation to respect ilo convention 87 as a core norm in the sustainability chapters of eu trade agreements.
raised in an environment and an educational system where having a job is a synonym for being valuable, millions of young people probably ask themselves exactly the same question every day.
i see employee financial participation as part of a broader narrative of sustainable entrepreneurship in europe which i want us to support and to encourage.
it also serves the purpose of ensuring the long-term sustainability of the company.
if we want ukraine to succeed in this fight, we must rely on diplomacy - not just diplomacy, but also on reforms in the country, on energy independence and on the fight against corruption.
while some want to elaborate a legal ban on nuclear weapons, others advocate a building-block approach to disarmament with step-by-step nuclear reductions, taking into account the current security environment.
it is also an important element in the further development of nuclear energy applications for peaceful purposes.
on the peaceful use of nuclear energy: the eu will reaffirm its support for the right of all parties to the treaty to develop research, production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, without discrimination, and in conformity with the treaty.
we have no time to waste.
besides the above evaluation of the measures taken, the presidency aims to foster a deeper reflection in the council on the structural reforms that are key to sustainable economic growth in the union.
in future, will you speak to those in europe who waste money?
the various forms of discrimination and exclusion must be eliminated in a sustainable way.
the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction.
this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction.
this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction.
this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction.
this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction.
this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction.
this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction.
this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction.
this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
it would be a tremendous loss of energy and loss of focus on the real issues if we were to embark on such a mechanism.
with an unstable geopolitical environment and evolving threats, easo is playing and will play an important role in crisis management; for example, it played a useful part in the taskforce mediterranean.
at the epsco council meeting in june 2014, where the council adopted conclusions on the economic crisis and health care, the council recognised the need for cooperation among member states through, inter alia, sharing information on strategies to effectively manage pharmaceutical and medical device expenditure while ensuring equitable access to effective medicines within sustainable national health care systems.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the epp group also requests that today's sitting be extended until 10 p.m.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the adopted decision on a strategic framework for the energy union (2015/2565 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we have always been convinced that the european union needs a project for the future and that the energy union, a european energy union, can be such a project for the future.
but it cannot be that when we decide in 2015 on an energy union and strategies for the future, we are essentially extending what the founding fathers of the 1950s already advocated as new and future technologies.
and i have to tell you: i am afraid that the european commission is about to squander the opportunities that the energy union could offer as a project for the future.
i do not know how you intend to link all this with the claim that it is an energy union which is also made for the citizens.
citizens are for climate action!
the majority of citizens are against nuclear energy, and this is true throughout europe.
if you want to create an energy union with which the citizens can identify, which adds value to what exists today in the member states, then this energy union must be focused on energy efficiency and renewable energy, on tomorrow and not yesterday!
today is a historic day, because we have a joint project called the energy union.
i also believe that you have put the eu's energy and climate policy in good hands on the way to a global agreement.
we have shown yesterday in the european parliament, in the committee on the environment, with a large majority, what can be done when colleagues are willing.
but in the environment committee, all the colleagues have come together and brought the emissions trading system back to the fore.
now, in the context of the energy union, it will also be important to launch a reform of the emissions trading system - as i said: to create jobs and investment security, and to bring about an energy transition in europe.
but we are on the right track, and we should be on the path to sustainable, climate-friendly energy and to job creation.
we are at a crossroads for more europe in energy policy, and we need that to become more independent and to achieve the necessary reduction of climate-damaging greenhouse gases as cost-effectively as possible.
i also very much welcome your focus on energy efficiency joint efforts to achieve energy efficiency will make these goals more cost-effective.
i am also very pleased that we have had many colleagues from the various political groups, jerzy buzek, françoise grossetête and many others as well as jean-claude juncker and you, write to say that we cannot accept any backsliding in the european parliament's codecision and if i read this correctly, we will continue to have directives in the essential areas we have had so far, such as energy efficiency and renewable energies.
we cannot talk about energy efficiency as much as you have done today and then say we don't need legislation.
i am also a little irritated by the 27% figure for energy efficiency.
but jean-claude juncker said before this parliament: at least 30%, binding, and this is a measure that the commission should be guided by - not only to become more independent of russia, but also to become more independent of the arab states, because many of our geostrategic problems are linked to the fact that we spend far too much money on energy and that the people who are actually our allies do not get it.
if we want the energy union - and i think this is an interesting and wise approach - and if we want to achieve that the member states work together more closely, to develop their potential together, and to do so in a realistic way, not by saying 'i have a dream', but in a realistic and affordable way, then we must develop all the potential we have in europe, then we must diversify the sources from which we obtain our energy.
we need different and new producers, we need new pipelines, we need new routes, we need new lng terminals, we also need different types of energy, and you can't just put it on a map, but you have to line up widely and you have to make connections.
and thirdly, if we are to achieve the internal market, we must at last take the step of europeanising the support for renewable energy.
renewable energies could be introduced in europe more cheaply and more effectively if we set up a european support system.
we social democrats are particularly pleased that the energy union is the flagship project of the european commission and is at the top of the political agenda.
mr vice-president, the concept of the energy union has the potential to become a european energy transition.
i would therefore like to stress once again that the energy union cannot be reduced to a russia policy or a gas policy.
we must be even more ambitious, and i stress this: we must be more committed to renewable energy and energy efficiency with the appropriate financial resources.
as the rapporteur mentioned just now, competition policy is a very important tool in achieving a number of goals, namely an energy union and digital single markets as well as capital markets.
i will say just a few words on three very high priority areas: firstly, an energy union.
the aims are relatively simple: independent, secure, cheap and sustainable supply.
then we have a solid platform on which to build our energy union.
the role of competition policy is, among other things, to keep an eye on energy companies that re-erect barriers to the internal market to ensure that companies cannot shield themselves from competition.
the decision that we take will have a significant impact on health, the environment, agriculture, trade and on a wide range of other sectors.
the work for it started already in 2013 under the joint responsibility of dg environment and dg sanco.
the eu co-legislators have already set interim criteria which ensure protection of human health and the environment until a permanent decision is taken.
i would also recall that the seventh environmental action plan adopted by the european parliament in 2013 asks the union to develop harmonised results-based criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors, which means criteria applicable to all chemical legislation.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of nuclear accidents is a very important one.
with the use of low—carbon technologies it will make trucks more aerodynamic and therefore more fuel—efficient.
this can be described as a win—win situation for society, with fewer emissions and casualties on our roads; for hauliers with lower fuel costs and additional incentives to renew their fleet; and for the industry, which will be able to produce new models with higher performance and to remain competitive on the global market for heavy goods vehicles.
this is part of the vision zero, which is zero traffic emissions by 2050. it is a bit sad that the lobby has won in the council on the introduction of this new generation of lorries.
the future permissible deviations from the current maximum vehicle dimensions will help to make road transport safer, more environmentally friendly and more energy efficient.
businesses are at the mercy of political decisions and under these conditions and in this political climate are no longer interested in investing in the long term.
together we have created a robust framework that offers certainty to investors that their money will be used to fund smart, sustainable growth in the real economy.
the fund is creating the opportunity to reorient europe and create sustainable investments.
we want the jordanian people to live in dignity and in a safe environment.
but the europe 2020 strategy also has a social and an environmental dimension.
the commission's proposal is that the social and environmental dimension of the budget should be given greater prominence and that the programmes and instruments to be used for this purpose should be strengthened.
we need to have an integrative, cross-sectoral, comprehensive and sustainable view of recovery.
however, our debate today clearly demonstrated that we all share concerns about the increasing politicisation of state institutions and the growing shortcomings of the independence of the judiciary and of freedom of the media, which is damaging the sustainability of reforms.
we will continue to emphasise the importance of promoting and protecting an environment that supports free speech and media freedom.
the business environment and the investment climate should be further improved.
attention should also be paid to implementing public administration reform and to implementing the economic and structural reforms required to restore fiscal sustainability, and ultimately to support growth and employment.
i look forward to the adoption of credible, comprehensive and sustainable action plans.
all these efforts have led to a sustainable decline in migrants and this is proof of the quality the administration and the politicians have already reached in kosovo.
it will be dedicated to three major topics: the energy union, the economy and external relations.
let me start with the energy union.
successful establishment of the european energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy is among the most important priorities of the latvian presidency.
i am very satisfied to see that the energy union enjoys broad support among the members of the european parliament, which was reflected, among other things, by the discussion of 25 february 2015 in parliament’s plenary in brussels.
it is very important to keep the political momentum and to proceed without delay in making the energy union a reality.
over the last months there have been several fruitful and constructive discussions on the energy union at various levels.
the council started immediately to work on all the five dimensions of the energy union.
first, on energy security, solidarity and trust, there were broadly—shared views among ministers that reducing energy dependency and vulnerability, especially concerning gas supplies, is a priority.
there was also general support for bolstering supply diversification strategies of sources, suppliers and routes and reinforcing strategic energy partnerships.
second, on a fully—integrated european energy market, the council underlined the necessity for strong and coordinated action to accomplish key infrastructure projects and to increase, reinforce and coordinate cross-border interconnections, as well as underlined the need to fully implement the legislation.
third, on energy efficiency, the council underscored its importance in support of energy security, competitiveness, decarbonisation and innovation, as well as bringing direct benefits to consumers through lower energy bills.
fourth, on decarbonising the economy, the views in council were in favour of using the potential of renewable energy sources more cost-efficiently and sustainably.
the major focus of the march european council will be on enhancing energy security, reaping the benefits of the internal energy market and pursuing climate diplomacy.
we have presented our initial ideas on the energy union, we have taken decisions on monitoring in the context of the european semester - sometimes controversial, i know - but if you read the decisions in detail, you will see that they read like a poem, they speak for themselves, and therefore they should be read in their entirety.
i will tell you, if i may, a word about the energy union.
the objective which must unite us around this concept of the energy union is the need to guarantee the european union's energy supply.
it is about making sure that we remain or become competitive in the energy sector.
this is about not losing sight of our commitments on climate policy.
we import 53% of the energy we consume and the cost of this import is €400 billion a year: we spend over €1 billion a day importing energy that we would do better to save.
we need to bring together the 28 energy markets into a single energy union.
we saw this a week ago at a mini-summit in madrid between president hollande, the spanish and portuguese prime ministers and the president of the commission, which was aimed at liberalising the iberian peninsula, which is a veritable island in terms of energy supply.
that is what we did in madrid a week ago, and that is what we must do to put an end to this irrational element in our energy landscape which is to see 28 energy regulators evolving in parallel, and very often against each other.
we should put an end to this waste.
i would like to stress once again the need to meet our climate commitments.
it confronts us with important challenges that touch on the core of many of our interests, including the security of energy supplies and the management of migration flows.
i would like to start with the energy union, which will be one of the council's main topics.
europe must become more independent in its energy supply.
the commission's approach to competition is, of course, the right approach in the energy sector.
we need partnerships with other energy producers.
the united states is a partner with whom we want to discuss energy exchanges more in the future.
the ttip is an opportunity to talk to the americans about energy issues.
the second point i would like to make on energy is that the first task which the council should undertake is to implement the decisions which have been taken so far.
i would like to make one final point on the energy question, namely the link between climate protection and climate issues.
we support the european union in paris as the leading power in climate action.
the commission president has shed light on energy costs in his speech.
i would like to refer mainly to the question of the energy union, since we will then also be discussing the european semester.
i would simply like to make it a little more fundamental, mr juncker, because i also had the impression that neither the council nor the commission are discussing the issues behind the debate on the energy union any further.
the fundamental question is whether access to energy for people should be a priority, rather than the question of price and supply stability being considered solely from the point of view of large companies.
because if we continue to be stuck in this grid as we are, nothing will change, and questions like energy poverty - why people suffer from not having enough energy to heat, wash and cook here in the european union - will remain virtually unanswered and unresolved by any kind of fine-grained rhetoric.
mr juncker, you were right to point to 53% of imports, you also said elsewhere that it was important to you that the eu should become number one in renewable energy.
it is not ambitious enough to say that we do not want to lose sight of the climate targets.
i would like to point out that there is a link between ttip and the energy union, and that link is fracking.
i want to point out again that we don't think fracking is the way to actually drive an energy transition and also to say that we're setting ourselves up on a different basis.
the energy union is the field that donald tusk has brought into play in this debate.
unfortunately, as gabriele zimmer and others have rightly pointed out in the debates, including in brussels, the idea that the energy union will once again be dominated by the ideas of yesterday is a risk that this project will be brought to a standstill.
instead of really focusing on innovation, on renewable energy, on efficiency and defining a future project for the european union, we are extending the policy of interest to industries that are not really sustainable.
i want to talk about the energy union: i do not think the commission's proposal is perfect in all respects, but it is interesting and good because i think it is reasonable for us to look at reality and consider what we can actually do and change and what we have done.
you said it yourself: if energy prices are rising and people can no longer pay for their energy and are sitting in the cold because we have too expensive energy, then that is a problem!
then we have to think about why energy prices are cheaper in america.
they're using their energy sources, like fracking.
taking care of industrial interests and energy prices has something to do with people too.
there is a huge opportunity to bring european policy together on energy issues in the networks.
it is a good thing that the commission has taken the initiative to promote renewable energy in europe.
i believe that the energy union is not a rhetorical bubble, but an opportunity that we should take to shape.
that is why we should do everything we can to make the energy union a clear success.
i think it is important that we as a parliament are clearly involved here and that things are not organised and regulated in the european semester in the context of the energy union, but that the whole thing is clearly done in the ordinary legislative procedures, that parliament is involved in all the steps.
yes, we need structural reforms, but not unilateral labour market reforms at the expense of workers, but reforms that combine sustainable growth with fair, good jobs.
‒ the regional fisheries organisation (rfo) is intended to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
the conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources within the scope of the convention and the protection of the corresponding marine ecosystems play an important role in blue growth and sustainable development.
where reforms have taken place - in spain, portugal, ireland - there is once again a legitimate prospect of growth and sustainability.
‒ mr president, madam commissioner,ladies and gentlemen,economic growth is driven by business and businesses create jobs:this is why it is important in europe to have an employment-friendly environment where people feel good about starting a business and putting their business ideas into practice.
we do not engage in speculation, but we know that such things always happen when the environment invites them.
– colleague, i would like to ask whether you would be prepared for your group also to agree to the statement that we should honour the memory of the murdered mr nemtsov also by clearly denouncing the environment of hate that has been created against russian opposition figures by the kremlin?
mr schaffhauser, i regret that i am taking a stand for positions that are foreign to you: for parliamentary democracy, for tolerance, for pluralism, for freedom of expression and the media, for not creating a climate of fear, for not hanging posters in a city declaring people free of birds because they are traitors to their country.
thirdly, we must strengthen the international order: the question of climate protection, the reform of the un security council, compliance with the non-proliferation treaty - this includes, for example, the negotiations on iran, which are an important part of such a strategy.
the report complains about a deterioration in the safety environment.
we need dialogue and negotiations for this world order, based on fixed rules, whether it be on the preservation of peace, the preservation of human rights, and this year also on the preservation of the climate on the way to paris.
this included vice-presidents: vice—president georgieva when we discussed the budget, on how we prioritise inside the commission and the proposal on how we use the budget on heading 4; and vice-president šefčovič when we discussed energy or climate.
if i could list all the different elements we have started to work on together on the commission side in these four months, which is not an enormous amount of time, i can mention climate, energy, research, economic cooperation and development, culture – that was mentioned by silvia costa – security and counter-terrorism – here again we have been putting together all the different aspects and the tools available – migration, trade, and obviously development, humanitarian aid and our enlargement policies.
we have the time, the energy and the resources to do so.
what interests can be pursued by one of our nation states alone in the fight against terrorism and for peace, in our role as peacemakers in the world and in the question of our trade and the consequences of migration and also climate change?
i thank our committee chairman, mr cadec, for taking this parliamentary initiative and for supporting the commission's urgent measures to make them sustainable.
sustainability is a very crucial point.
we also address issues that are new or not yet as regular and prominent on the human rights council's agenda, such as climate change and human rights.
the human rights council has already recognised the negative impact of climate change on the living conditions of many people, and it is advisable that the eu or the eu external action service also actively participate in the discussion to find a good definition of climate refugees.
the report is not a report on the environment, but on the environment.
that brings me to the energy union, mr juncker.
i think that actually, if you do the energy union right, you can not only deliver optimal climate protection, you can drive innovation in large industrial sectors, you can create security, security of supply, but also security against russia and other countries that we depend on.
if we put the old energy mix back in the centre, we can forget about this as a future project!
tell me why this is the focus and not renewable energies, which already today in germany ensure that industrial electricity prices are unrivalled low, even if the opposite is always claimed!
i would say that the energy union is to me what the coal and steel or euratom treaties were to the founding fathers of the european union.
first of all, it is good that the council has dealt with the energy union, because i am firmly convinced that it is a project that can take europe forward.
if we want to generate energy security, but also to act on climate protection, and if we want to have a secure but also sustainable energy supply among ourselves, then we can only do this by tackling things together.
we should not just talk about it, but we need clear legislation so that investors have security when they invest money in the future in renewable energy, in sustainable forms of energy production.
we must therefore consider what course we are taking for innovation, for a sustainable energy supply and for a sustainable future for all 520 million europeans.
we need a regional framework which, together with the multilateral and international framework, together with the united nations, together with the european union, is able not only to react but also to act by seeking sustainable solutions in the long term, because it is too often the case that a way of 'solving', among many commas, a crisis turns into a new crisis years later.
this is why the european commission should take this debate as an opportunity to finally make sustainable proposals on how to guarantee common minimum social standards in the transport sector and beyond.
in agreement with the political groups, i propose to amend the final draft agenda: the commission's statement on the commemoration of the textile factory fires in bangladesh and progress on the sustainable development pact for bangladesh will be postponed until a later part-session.
i would also like to thank the committee on transport and tourism (tran), the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), and the rapporteurs for the valuable contributions that they have made.
but in healthy people in a normal environment, moderate drinking, such as the first glass of wine, is not harmful.
commissioner thyssen rightly said in the commission's press release that decent working and living conditions are a prerequisite for sustainable economic growth and prosperity along our entire production chain.
finally, i would also like to say: extend the sustainable development pact to the whole region and, above all, make its elements binding.
the commissioner has therefore to maintain the pressure on international producers and subcontractors to ensure that they are committed to a decent working environment.
the basic regulation defines multiannual plans as a tool, an anchor for the sustainable management of fish stocks and the ecosystem.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionising radiation.
we all have a common interest, which is to strengthen fishing and make it a sustainable industry.
we have also to keep in mind that, when protecting the industry, we are doing this in the best interest – and in the interest of the long-term sustainability – of fishermen themselves.
reforming higher education boosts the quality and reputation of europe’s learning institutions, mobility and internationalisation, while at the same time generating sustainable growth and jobs.
there is much that is on the right track - and i would like to support my predecessor, mrs köstinger, on a number of points - the triangle of economy, ecology and social policy, but also the very great importance of forests for rural and urban areas and, of course, the commitment to the sustainable management of the entire area.
here again, three things are mentioned: it is very important that we get european sustainability criteria.
forestry is the best guarantee of quality of life, sustainability, job security and value creation, especially in rural areas.
forestry and climate change work on voluntary action.
we are glad that the eu forest strategy was also discussed in the committee on environment, public health and food safety and in the committee on industry, research and energy.
let me start by saying that, while we do not have a common forest policy, the eu has a long history of contributing through its policies to implementing sustainable forest management and to member states’ decisions on forests in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
moreover forests, covering 40% of the eu land area, are an essential element in our environment, our economy and our society.
several eu policies have an impact on forests, including rural development, climate change, industry, environment, bio-energy and the broader bio-economy.
through these policies the eu also makes a very important contribution to the implementation of sustainable forest management and member states’ decisions related to forestry and the entire forest-based sector, as well as forest protection.
for a country like finland, let me just recall that when we include pulp and paper, roughly one quarter of its total exports come from the forest sector – but the services and the economic and social environment benefits that they provide to citizens are common to all member states.
therefore the forest strategy aims to ensure that such an important natural resource for our economy and society will continue to deliver its economic benefits in spite of new challenges such as climate change and related threats.
the strategy also relates to climate change as it contributes largely to both climate mitigation and climate adaptation.
it relates to biodiversity, as forests host a significant part of eu biodiversity and half of natura 2000 zones are forests and other wooded land.
it relates to energy: forest biomass continues to be the most important source of renewable energy and currently accounts for around half of the eu’s total renewable energy consumption.
it also relates to other broader areas such as the race for innovation and skills, or the contribution towards sustainable bio-economy.
when you look at the strategy itself, the basic aim is to establish a framework for forest-based actions and support for sustainable forest management, based on the coordination of the different forest policies in member states and of eu policies and initiatives relative to forestry and related forest-based sector activities.
the strategy provides a holistic approach to forest management, it covers the economic, social and environmental benefits of forests.
much of what is done in this area is sustainable - at least more sustainable than traditional oil production.
we see that today, the climate balance of agrofuels is in some cases worse than that of fossil fuels.
we must make a shift in transport policy towards energy saving and new transport concepts.
this is a bad sign for eu climate policy, because the bottom line is that we are producing more emissions instead of reducing them.
biofuels make a major contribution to the increased use of renewable energy and to the reduction of co2 emissions.
they also support our efforts to make the eu more independent of energy imports.
the key here is that our policy choices are credible and sustainable.
we must take further steps and i hope that the european commission, you, commissioner vella, and the vice-president concerned will also be considering the problem of plastic waste when you present us with an improved proposal on the circular economy in the autumn.
we have an enormous waste of raw materials here, an unnecessary waste of energy, a very short life span and, in addition, poor recyclability, and we see the result particularly in the world's oceans.
but it's also inadequate, and it opens a back door, and it may be counterproductive in the end, because we're going to see manufacturers switch to plastic bags over 50 microns, so that more resources are wasted, more energy is wasted, and ultimately more plastic waste is dumped into the environment.
the more often they are disposed of in the environment.
let me be clear: hundreds of thousands of tons of plastic waste are polluting the world's oceans.
there are well over 140 million tons of plastic waste stored there.
many are already talking about the seventh continent, 3.4 million square kilometers, in the middle of the pacific ocean between california and hawaii, larger than india, and made entirely of plastic waste.
let's make it our business to find ways to collect and recycle plastic waste.
let's conquer the seventh continent and relieve the environment.
shipping accounts for 3% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
there is a great deal of agreement in this house that this was an important thing for climate protection, so we are now setting up a monitoring system for shipping.
but i think it's not just important for global climate change, it's also important for the ocean.
it is particularly important to protect not only biodiversity but also the climate.
that's what everybody says, and it's the big ships that are causing the emissions.
we have already achieved a number of things in the seca sulphur emission zones, and if we can do that here, it would be great for global shipping and for all of us on climate.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the impact of the accident on the environment.
it does not abruptly end the production of biofuels, it also guarantees a 7% cap on conventional biofuels, it does not say goodbye to its emissions targets, and it says that at least 0.5% of biofuels should come from the second or third generation.
‒ i supported the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive.
‒ i did not agree to the amendment of the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive.
it is therefore the wrong approach to say that biofuels should now be produced from alternative sources such as algae or waste instead.
the legislation, now formally approved, is intended to tackle the problem of the growing plastic waste in the world's oceans.
‒ the european parliament voted on tuesday to reduce plastic waste in the eu.
of course, i can see the goal of reducing plastic pollution.
the first environmental problem is the misuse of plastic bags.
some people throw plastic bags into rivers and other bodies of water, polluting the environment others do not.
a more proportionate solution would be to punish violations of environmental protection regulations with a firm hand.
‒ i voted today in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec, because i consider the draft text to be good and balanced.
‒ i voted today for the report by mrs köstinger on 'a new eu forest strategy: for forests and the forest-based sector' because i believe that the sustainable management of our forests is an absolutely key issue for future generations.
it aims to exploit the full potential of the forestry sector, both in terms of its benefits to nature and the environment and its economic value to society.
the new strategy aims to reconcile the multiple and sometimes conflicting demands on forests from the different eu policies such as nature conservation, energy, climate change and the economy.
i have therefore rejected three amendments in the plenary which were in the way of the holistic approach to sustainable forest management.
if we want to be ahead of fast-evolving environmental crimes, we will need to have a fresh look at the legislative framework on sanctions.
they welcome the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, particularly because there is a problem in individual member states of prosecuting fraud and the waste of eu funds.
at the same time, the council notes that the error rate estimated by the court of auditors does not, as such, indicate fraud, misuse or waste of european union funds.
the european year for development 2015, the negotiations on the replacement of the millennium development goals by the sustainable development goals at un level, the forthcoming start of negotiations on the future of the cotonou agreement beyond 2020 and the new multiannual financial framework should be an opportunity for us to strive for greater rigour and coherence in the development policy of the european union and its member states.
they are modern schools, they are energy efficient, they are a pleasure for kids to go to – 800 of them with european money.
it was unfortunately a waste of time.
what should a uniform immigration law look like and what should a coordinated african policy look like to combat the causes in a sustainable way?
i believe that the creation of sustainable jobs for young people in europe is urgently needed, but at the same time i am convinced that this cannot be guaranteed by state measures, and even less by european measures.
so why waste money on a double structure?
through previous resolutions and the actions of honourable members, this house has reminded burundians that they have allies in their efforts to achieve sustainable democracy, to take their country from fragility to democracy and to maintain a path of respect for human rights, development and regional integration.
today we are talking about the eu's appearance at the milan expo and the theme 'feeding the planet, energy for life'.
the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative acts in the field of the environment, and to adopt a directive on the protection of the environment.
the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to use the theme of expo 2015 in milan ('feeding the planet, energy for life') to 'set commitments to guarantee the right to adequate, healthy, sustainable and conscious food'.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
all the eu's policies, such as trade, environment, agriculture, education and finance, need to be more closely interlinked.
– mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur mr pedicini and by congratulating the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) on their excellent work.
i also welcome the call for enhanced cooperation with stakeholders in the interests of a coordinated, comprehensive and sustainable eu approach to patient safety.
amr knows no borders and can spread between humans, animals, the environment and food.
resource efficiency is one of the drivers for industrial transformation with positive effects on the environment.
my second point is that, in manufacturing smes, raw materials – and this is really important – represent on average 40% of total costs, with energy and water pushing this up to 50%.
the third point is that reducing energy consumption is a priority for 80% of medium-sized companies.
finally – and this point was also made by mr šoltes – smes find it difficult to get value from their waste.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
in this context, i believe that only a holistic, cross-sectoral approach, covering a wide range of disciplines (human and veterinary medicine, research, animal husbandry, agriculture, environment, trade and communication), can tackle antibiotic resistance.
‒ in my view, economic growth and environmental protection are not incompatible.
in europe, we have set ourselves the target of bringing the share of industry in our economic output back to 20% by 2020. the promotion of sustainable industry and green technology is a factor that should not be underestimated.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
under those circumstances, the european council considers it more important than ever to ensure a positive climate so that negotiations for a comprehensive cyprus settlement can resume.
the human tragedies in the mediterranean, the threat posed by terrorist groups, the severe conflicts in our neighbourhood, the economy and climate change are all issues we cannot effectively face alone.
the commission strongly encourages all the relevant stakeholders, including turkey, to contribute to a positive climate.
regarding energy security: in march, vice president maroš šefčovič launched a high-level energy dialogue and attended the start of works on the tanap trans-anatolian gas pipeline which, once completed, will contribute to europe’s energy security.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
yes, turkey is important to us - as a trustworthy neighbour, as a trading partner with regard to energy security and, of course, the fight against terrorism.
there is so much good we could do together - in energy policy, in people-to-people contacts, in visa facilitation.
we in the european union have a great interest in continuing the political dialogue and in strengthening our cooperation, above all in areas such as social cohesion, energy policy, education policy, cooperation - including with research institutes in europe and chile - and, of course, trade.
the need to ensure that economic growth in europe is both durable and sustainable.
in the present context, it is essential that budgetary rules are respected in order to make the economic and monetary union sustainable.
acer is the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
but acer needs a stronger mandate, especially with regard to the establishment of the energy union.
the transition from 28 national energy markets to a european energy market cannot succeed without strong european market surveillance.
the european union - and this parliament in particular - shares the central objectives of your organisation, mr secretary-general: combating the effects of climate change, fighting global poverty and hunger, and promoting education and sustainable development.
today, i would like to highlight three dominant and interlinked challenges that must command greater collective attention: first, preventing violent extremism; second, addressing the migration challenge; and third, building a sustainable world for all.
let me now turn to the third and overarching global challenge on which we count on european vision and leadership: achieving landmark advances in this critical year for sustainable development.
in 2015, we have three historic opportunities to put the world on a sustainable, prosperous and equitable path.
developed countries have a responsibility to lead on providing the funds for eradicating extreme poverty and addressing climate change.
the fundamental responsibility for financing sustainable development lies with governments.
this year’s second development milestone comes in september in new york, when countries will adopt a bold post-2015 development agenda and embrace a new set of sustainable development goals which will be called sdgs.
europe can lead the way in transitioning to a low-carbon economy.
third, in december in paris, governments must make good on their commitment to adopt a universal, meaningful climate change agreement at the paris climate conference.
strong european leadership is essential to deliver a new climate agreement that will enable europe to manage climate risks, enhance its prosperity and strengthen its security, including energy security.
through its national commitment and climate and energy policy, the european union is blazing the trail to a safer, more prosperous low-carbon future for its people and our world.
i thank the european union for being among the first to issue a climate target in march of this year, and for the generous contributions of many eu member states to the green climate fund.
there must be a politically credible trajectory for mobilising the agreed usd 100 billion per year by 2020. and the green climate fund must be up and running before paris so that it can support small island developing states, least developed countries and africa.
i am also asking for the european union’s support on designing and delivering a special package for the most vulnerable countries, including the small island developing states and least developed countries, that addresses their concerns across climate and development.
this package would focus primarily on finance, resilience, adaptation and energy.
finally, i urge the eu to continue to champion higher ambition in the context of a paris agreement, both through strengthening its climate target for 2020, as well as considering more ambitious targets in the post-2020 period.
our organisation was born from the ashes of the second world war which laid much of europe to waste.
they will also highlight current efforts to build a european energy union and illustrate the key elements of the recent european policy on migration.
the g7 is expected to discuss and take an ambitious position in support of the negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda in new york and in view of the climate change conference of the parties in paris at the end of the year.
the g7 presidency has also sought to use the opportunity of this summit to shed international light on other important issues such as the protection of the marine environment, marine governance and resource efficiency.
the g7 supports african countries in their reform efforts and in their efforts to strengthen peace and security, growth and sustainable development.
in schloss elmau, the eu will advocate for the g7 to reaffirm the need for urgent and concrete action to address climate change, to confirm its commitment to fighting protectionism, to continue its engagement to strengthen health systems, to fight antimicrobial resistance and neglected tropical diseases, and to learn lessons from the ebola crisis on how to respond to public health emergencies.
we also expect the g7 to strongly support the un negotiations to achieve an ambitious post-2015 agenda for sustainable development, to take action to promote women’s economic participation and entrepreneurship, and to step up its efforts in support of food security and nutrition.
following the illegal annexation of crimea, g7 leaders decided to suspend their participation in the g8 until russia changed course and the environment came back to a situation where the g8 would be able to have a meaningful discussion.
secondly, stability also means proper environmental protection.
climate change is on the agenda in areas where europe is leading, where europe is setting the standard in many areas.
and we also welcome the fact that there are areas such as the protection of the marine environment, which may not be so high on the agenda today, which will be discussed with priority at the g7 summit.
i think it's good that the g7 is dealing with climate change.
i believe that we europeans must be able to show that we are not just doing climate action on the one hand and then having debates here - climate action versus growth versus jobs - but summing up the whole.
the decoupling of growth and economic prosperity from carbon emissions is the great challenge of the future.
frans timmermans has a sustainability theme in his portfolio.
i think we need to think more holistically, not just in individual areas like the circular economy - the package is due to come this year - but to take a holistic approach to finance, to the economy, but also to climate change.
and one of the things that will drive these refugee flows even further is going to be the issue of climate change.
and this is also the continent of africa that is hit hardest by climate change.
i would like to thank mr timmermans for his opening speech, in which he clearly identified two priorities which are also very important to my group and especially to my colleagues on the committee on the environment.
the second issue that has been raised a lot - including by ban ki-moon - is the issue of climate change.
we must now also be sustainable in the method.
for me, working together means finding sustainable answers to the global challenges of our time.
thirdly, the existence of complex external threats to the security environment in europe should not be underestimated.
the proposals will address the need for closer intra-eu and international cooperation with the aim of developing greater situational awareness and early-warning mechanisms for countering the hybrid warfare threats in areas such as cyber-defence, strategic communications, border security, energy security, and others.
we must spare no effort to protect our fundamental values in the digital environment.
this can't be a sustainable condition in the long run.
the digitisation of infrastructure, economic value chains, and the environment not only opens up opportunities, but also poses risks.
the report is a welcome addition to the commission's work on the subject of the european year of the environment.
i think donald tusk was right when he proposed the energy union as a response to the dependence on russia.
now you can tackle the economic and sustainable development of your country with great strength and with broad support.
as the government takes steps to improve the investment climate, such opportunities are rapidly increasing.
we have hosted a number of meetings and conferences on topics beyond security matters, such as energy, women and nuclear issues.
while nuclear power may remain a viable energy option for some, any nation seeking to build nuclear power must not endanger the peace and security of their independent neighbours.
this is especially significant this year in the run-up to the united nations conference on climate change, to be held in paris in december this year.
the second phase of the kyoto protocol serves as a bridge towards a post-2020 global climate change agreement.
in this context, the european union and its member states, acting jointly – together with iceland – have committed to reducing their emissions during the period 2013-2020 to 20% below their levels of 1990 or other chosen base years.
it also sets out the terms according to which the european union, its member states and iceland, will fulfil their emissions reduction commitments jointly.
the draft ratification decision is consistent with the 2009 climate and energy package and does not change any national targets set in the climate and energy package, nor does it change the emissions cap of the european union emissions trading system.
however, the ratification has gained significant value in the international climate change negotiations and is a demonstration of our continued commitment to the unfccc process.
to ensure that iceland and the member states are treated alike, the emission level for iceland was determined in a way that is consistent both with the doha amendment and with union legislation, including the 2009 climate and energy package and the principles and criteria on which objectives in that legislation are based.
ratification of the doha amendment will show that, as the world prepares for the adoption of a new global climate agreement, the european union stands by its commitments.
i would also like to thank and congratulate the g7 participants who made very far-reaching decisions on climate protection over the weekend.
there, at least part of the area is already being supplied with 100% renewable energy and a combination of efficiency.
we will not have an agreement in december of this year that solves the climate problem, but we must renegotiate, continue to negotiate and take further steps again and again.
we have to take climate action seriously, and i would like to end by quoting a very conservative american senator, john warner, who once introduced a climate action bill in the united states, which at that time did not have a majority.
john warner was asked why he was a climate conservative, and his answer was science and grandchildren.
europe has a responsibility to lead the way on climate change.
as chairman of the chinese delegation, i know how ambitious china is for the next five-year plan and what huge investments it will make in technologies, in products, in services for climate action.
we need a carbon divestment in the eu too.
a question, commissioner: do we really have a strategy for 2050 to reduce greenhouse gases by up to 95%?
the third question of credibility would be: what are we doing to get the $100 billion for climate change in the developing world?
the creation of a european energy union at home must be accompanied by a coherent external energy and climate policy.
the most pressing issues are undoubtedly the diversification of our energy imports and the need to speak with a common european voice at international level.
but energy and climate policy cannot be limited to security of supply.
this includes the global fight against climate change.
europe needs to make better use of its external policy instruments to promote european projects such as decarbonisation and the energy transition.
new nuclear power stations do not increase our security of supply, but represent a constant security risk, alongside the still open question of nuclear waste disposal.
the trade committee stresses the special role of trade in energy security.
we see the key to success in building energy partnerships that not only provide security for ourselves but also for our partners.
access to energy is a basic human need, and energy poverty is unfortunately a growing phenomenon in europe as well.
inta therefore insists that energy security is about ensuring affordable, sustainable, stable, secure and predictable access to energy for citizens and businesses alike and must be part of an inclusive strategy for economic growth and a coherent interplay between eu trade and energy policies.
these partnerships are to be embedded in global climate change objectives and binding commitments in energy chapters in eu trade agreements.
we call on the commission to take strong action against environmental dumping by third countries which do not comply with international decisions.
the export of environmentally friendly energy technology is an opportunity for europe.
energy agreements will now be decided by the co-decision procedure.
i find it regrettable that the current political debate on energy security is dominated mainly by foreign policy issues.
i think this is counterproductive, because new energy partnerships alone will not ensure our energy supply in the long term or reduce our dependence on imports.
the second aspect i would like to draw attention to concerns the so-called domestic energy sources of the eu, which are frequently mentioned in the report.
this term was also used in the commission's communication on the energy strategy, without being defined in any way.
for example, is nuclear energy also one of the eu's domestic energy sources, even though 95% of the uranium used in the nuclear sector is imported from outside the eu?
for example, despite the environmental concerns in many member states, is hydraulic fracking one of the eu's so-called promising domestic energy sources?
if you take renewable energy, is it much cheaper in the long run and also in the medium term?
i can only compare: if we take solar energy, which is considered to be priceless, it is much cheaper in germany today than, for example, electricity from new nuclear power stations.
firstly, nuclear energy: how can we achieve the necessary decarbonisation of industry worldwide if we want to do without this industry?
seventy nuclear power stations are currently under construction in the world, and particularly outside europe, and without nuclear energy it will not be possible to contribute to decarbonisation.
i would like to emphasize one aspect in particular, namely the issue of energy efficiency.
the cheapest and safest energy is the energy we don't need.
and president juncker announced before his election that he would commit to at least 30% energy savings by 2030. we have also reaffirmed our support for this 30% target in a paper which we adopted together in the epp group.
if you compare that: an important project to ensure energy security was the nabucco pipeline.
if nabucco had come, it would have represented 3% of the total energy supply of the european union, because of course gas is only a part of it and because of course it would have provided only a part of the gas supply.
so 3 percent nabucco, with all the political discussions we've had about it, minus 30 percent energy efficiency.
we must promote energy efficiency as the most cost-effective means of ensuring energy security and protecting the climate, and i am sure, commissioner, that you will be there when i ask you to do so.
a stable and sustainable energy supply and rational and efficient use of energy contribute to prosperity and security in the european union.
the issue of energy security cannot therefore be dealt with at national level alone, but requires a european strategy which takes account of the interdependencies of the member states.
the strategy for a secure european energy supply is necessary because it is an important pillar in the creation of an energy union.
the crisis in ukraine in 2014 showed us that we need a common european energy policy!
it is very regrettable that the debate on the security of energy supply in europe is still too much focused on the import of energy and the use of controversial energies.
we have been concerned about energy imports since the ukraine crisis, but despite this we in europe have been sleeping through the night developing concepts to meet our energy needs in such a way that we are not dependent on a few partners.
the commission's report and communication are so firmly committed to the future use of domestic energy sources, and we would like to know what that means.
many conservatives include nuclear power and hydraulic fracking among these energy sources, alongside renewable energy.
but that cannot be the case, because we need to set clear priorities for the future of energy supply.
we must also avoid other methods that are certain or likely to contribute to pollution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
‒ i voted in favour of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to establish a new commitment period (2013-2020) to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
we have a shared responsibility to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the doha amendment to the climate protocol is an important step in the forthcoming negotiations on a new global climate pact.
the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, signed in 1997, established an internationally binding emission reduction target.
the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and ends on 31 december 2020, and includes legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union, its member states and iceland are obliged to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the period 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their base year emissions (in most cases 1990).
i do not share the ideology of man-made climate change that underlies this agreement.
‒ i voted in favour of the eu/iceland agreement on iceland's participation in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, as we can only tackle climate change by meeting the commitments under the protocol together.
cooperation with non-eu countries is an essential approach to tackling this major climate challenge.
‒ the eu imports 53% of its total energy consumption, namely 85% of its oil, 67% of its natural gas, 41% of its solid fuels and about 95% of its uranium.
the aim is to ensure security of supply, affordable energy prices and the achievement of our climate targets at the same time.
this requires a number of measures: energy efficiency must be improved and thus overall energy consumption reduced.
in addition, the aim is to increase domestic energy production.
we also need a fully integrated internal energy market.
energy supply is still decided at national level without taking full account of the interdependence of the member states.
this limits the eu's ability to respond as a whole to supply shortages and threats to energy security.
a unified position on external energy policy would give individual countries a better negotiating position.
another important point is the diversification of energy suppliers.
this must be pursued consistently so that foreign policy is not influenced by energy dependencies and geopolitical developments, such as those currently taking place in russia and ukraine, do not threaten our energy supply.
these guidelines should ensure energy supply in both the short and long term.
‒ yesterday, the european parliament voted on the european strategy for energy security.
the report focuses only on energy efficiency and renewable energy.
we should, as far as possible, keep all options open in terms of technological solutions to the energy policy challenges of our time, for example decarbonising the economy and reducing energy dependence.
of course, we're for more efficiency and clean energy.
but we must also make way for nuclear energy and shale gas in europe, especially if we want to re-industrialise.
scientists say the environmental impact is being hyped.
i did not vote in favour of the eu parliament resolution on the european strategy for energy security.
the report is an attack on europe's industrial base and calls for a shift towards a greener energy economy.
it is based on the ideological basis of man-made climate change, which i do not share.
the central planning restructuring of the energy production sector in germany and europe based on questionable ideological dogmas is wrong.
in addition, there are certainly tasks for the coordination of energy security matters at eu level.
however, this does not include requirements on the national energy mix.
on the other hand, if and when a sustainable solution to the ukraine conflict is found, we will obviously need to adjust and recalibrate our relationship with russia.
some honourable members just raised the issue of energy policy and complained about the lack of action at european level regarding the independence and diversification of resources under energy policy.
let me simply say that the european commission and the council have just adopted the communication on the energy union.
we are implementing the third energy package, which aims to bring about independence and diversification in energy policy as well.
in particular, we noted continuing restrictions on independent media and freedom of expression and assembly, excessive use of force against demonstrators, a climate of intimidation for opposition parties and civil society, and a lack of confidence in the election authorities.
all burundi’s partners need to support african efforts, led by the eac and the au, and focus their efforts on calming the political climate.
in the current climate, the commission has to plan for all possible scenarios and, of course, to consider the adoption of possible additional measures, including those related to eu development cooperation with burundi.
it also dealt with climate change and human rights issues.
a sustainable solution is only possible within a targeted, comprehensive and balanced approach, systematically implemented step by step.
as i have already mentioned, it is therefore a comprehensive approach that is important, consistently put into practice and thus ensuring the necessary support in the short term and a sustainable solution in the future.
on the external aspects of security, the european council will discuss security and defence policy and will assess the progress made in this area since the european council conclusions of december 2013. this discussion will take place in a context of a new and significantly different internal and external security environment with new types of security challenges.
this is encouraging, but growth rates are low and there is a lot of work to be done to ensure that economic growth is long-term and sustainable.
the council also did a great deal to create the conditions for long-term and sustainable economic growth.
there can be no sustainable soft power without hard power, without integrated defence capabilities.
the final phase by 2015 will provide a stable and prosperous framework for all eu member states that have adopted the single currency and an attractive environment for others.
there are many things that are missing that we urgently need in the fight against climate change: building renovation, energy efficiency -- these are our big issues.
it is a question of our efficiency and our viability, of our sustainability, of our economic and social systems.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
and we need a project selection process that is focused on quality, sustainability and legal certainty.
the european fund for strategic investments needs to be stepped up to create good and sustainable jobs.
it is important to ensure that the projects supported by the eu have a sustainable impact and that they create quality jobs.
‒ creating growth and sustainable jobs is the primary objective and guiding principle of the ambitious juncker plan.
but these issues also affect the climate in the european union.
we are clear that a capital markets union can only improve the investment climate in europe if other basic conditions are met.
this includes, in particular, a stable economic policy environment based on economic reforms and debt reduction.
in such an environment, there is no dynamic demand for credit.
i am all the more pleased that you have both pointed out here today that in the end it is not just a waste directive, but that it is really about much more: a circular economy.
the report by sirpa pietikäinen provides exactly what europe needs at the moment: jobs, sustainable development and, at the end of the day, certainty as to the direction of the legislation.
the commission will then need more time to do this, until december, but then we will really need this package for sustainable development, for conserving resources, saving resources and really putting a stop to landfilling in the recycling sector.
because a landfill ban is also climate protection at the end of the day, because i'm preventing methane.
what's very important to me is the marine environment.
we have to make sure that we are really serious about reducing the amount of waste going into the sea.
and at the end of the day, this has been addressed before, food waste: it has to stop.
the commission must also consider this, and every time it adopts legislation it must also carry out an impact assessment procedure to determine whether this leads to food waste or to a reduction in food waste.
it not only sets out such targets in terms of waste prevention or recycling rates, but it also puts this in the context of broader perspectives for an ecological civilization, by saying, for example, that we need to make our economy sustainable by 2050, by saying, for example, that we need to reduce our resource consumption by 30% by 2030. but if it becomes concrete towards the end of the year, mr katainen, we will have to deal with your slogan of over-regulation again.
you know as well as i do that there are companies and industries that can and want to make this circular economy a business success, that are leading the way in technology and championing innovation, and others that are on the brakes and believe that a competitive solution is only possible if you are successful even if you refuse to accept the ecological transformation goals.
i also think we have to be careful about including environmental risk in ratings and equity requirements.
the industry has recognized that today's customers demand and prefer sustainable products.
this is a situation that is not sustainable.
milk is extremely harmful to the environment, and, by the way, milk production is an unacceptable form of animal cruelty.
finally, have the courage to take an ethical approach: less milk from turbo cows, less milk-related diseases, less pollution of the environment and groundwater by manure and by the growing of feed in huge monocultures and more animal welfare!
some want to get to their destination as quickly as possible, others want to travel in the most sustainable way possible, and still others are interested in finding a tourist route worth seeing.
we therefore need to make multimodal travel much more attractive, as it not only offers an efficient solution to existing congestion, but also promotes sustainability, economy, energy efficiency and european tourism.
we need all the information we can get to deliver on key european transport policy goals, for instance in terms of reducing the environmental impact and increasing safety and security as well as enhancing the competitiveness of the european transport sector for the benefit of jobs and growth.
secondly, the energy union we have laid the foundations for the european energy union, which aims to strengthen the eu's energy independence and a common energy policy for the european union.
in our work, we have focused on the need to provide consumers with stable and affordable energy prices, greater choice in the energy market and clearer information on energy suppliers.
the latvian presidency made important decisions in the creation of the european energy union, promoting the transition to a low-carbon economy and thus increasing the eu's energy independence.
the latvian presidency agreed to the submission of eu commitments to mitigate climate change beyond 2020, ensuring timely eu input in the preparation of the paris climate conference.
a sustainable solution is only possible within a targeted, comprehensive and balanced approach, systematically implemented step by step.
we are pleased that we have focused on promoting employment on issues that have received less attention due to the economic and financial crisis, namely the sustainability and quality of jobs, income adequacy, career opportunities, safe transition from one job to another.
the commission, under an ambitious presidency, did not hesitate to put forward a series of proposals - you have just mentioned a few of them - namely the energy union, the capital markets union and the digital union.
on the other hand, the debt of greece must be made sustainable.
we discussed ways to deepen and strengthen our relationship, and in particular to increase readiness to jointly address the diverse set of global security, economic and environmental challenges that the nations currently face.
furthermore, the importance of energy issues was upheld in the negotiations.
2. cooperating for energy security.
major global challenges to energy security were discussed.
the tremendous potential of the united states in this case was highlighted, whilst european energy security was regarded as a solid framework for cooperation amongst member states.
the third aspect is the announcement by commissioner malmström that she will present an analysis of the impact of ttip on developing countries and on the future sustainable development goals.
we can't let this opportunity go to waste.
that is why i am voting in favour of amendment no 27. that is why we are fighting for good work, for healthy food, for the preservation of rural areas, for municipal services, for binding sustainability chapters and against ttip.
the negotiating approaches to ttip, ceta and tisa are no longer compatible with the current and future objectives of promoting regional trade, combating exploitation in global production chains and combating environmental dumping.
‒ i voted for the introduction of multimodal ticketing systems because this is the right way to enable efficient and sustainable door-to-door travel and mobility in europe.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already taken a number of important decisions.
the report makes constructive proposals for a competitive and sustainable dairy industry.
this own-initiative report considers the impact and success of the 2012 milk package to date and identifies the areas where action is needed to ensure a viable, sustainable and competitive milk sector in the post-quota market.
i am convinced that the objective of sustainable business development and greater transparency unites us across political groups.
once this parliament ratifies the agreement reached with the council, this reserve will form an integral part of the union's emissions trading scheme, and this scheme is the cornerstone of the european union's climate policy.
however, in recent years, the excess of allowances on the market has prevented this scheme from giving the necessary signals to make sufficient low-carbon investments.
this is expected to increase market confidence in the emissions trading system and to provide the right price signals in the coming years to achieve our long-term emission reduction targets.
it has been agreed that, in the context of the review of the emissions trading system, consideration should be given to whether 50 million unallocated allowances should be used to accelerate investments in low-carbon technologies.
the agreed text also recognises the importance of industrial competitiveness and the risk of carbon leakage for european industry.
i can assure you that these two elements will be important issues to be addressed in the context of the proposed revision of the emissions trading system.
all the elements i have mentioned will allow a solid architecture of the market stability reserve, as well as ensuring the strengthening of the emissions trading system in the future.
we have reached an important milestone with that compromise text, which allows us to focus now on the review of the emissions trading system for the period 2020-2030. last year i committed myself to parliament to translate the elements of the 2030 climate and energy package relating to this emissions trading system into a concrete proposal as soon as agreement is reached on the market stability reserve.
i will deliver on this commitment and intend to present a proposal this july on the basis of the consensus reached by the heads of state and government at the european council last october 2014. this proposal will be an important part of the work we are called upon to do to achieve an energy union with a future climate change policy, which is a priority for this commission.
this is an ambitious climate change initiative to make emissions trading work again.
on the other hand - and i fully agree with this - we have made some adjustments which help to avoid the shifting of co2 emissions.
we do not want the energy-intensive industry to disappear, but we want it to be up to date with the latest technology through innovation.
i ask industry to accept this outstretched arm, this outstretched hand, and to reject unambitious climate change proposals.
i think that is the way forward and the way forward for the commission in its proposal next week, which i am sure will be presented next week: ambitious climate action but with opportunities for industry to continue producing in europe.
the emissions trading system will finally be able to breathe, it must be said, thanks to the market stability reserve which we will be launching here tomorrow - our group will also be voting in favour of this.
i think it's very good that we take a total of 1.5 billion allowances into the reserve out of the market that are giving us these difficulties, that we then really get a reasonable realistic price for a ton of co2, that investments are made investments in climate-friendly technologies , but also that clear framework conditions are given, legal framework conditions for those who want to invest now.
i believe that this will create a stable legal framework, but it will also send a signal to the rest of the world, including the cop21 conference: the fact that a sensible industrial policy can be combined, as mr tajani has just described, with climate protection and environmental protection on the one hand, is not mutually exclusive.
i think that we should not be ashamed tomorrow of having introduced this legislation in this way, but rather, quite frankly, we should be proud of having made a step forward in european climate change policy and industrial policy.
because it is important that the price increase is achieved so that the effect can actually take place and the emissions trading actually does what we want in terms of climate targets, so that the glass is not only half full.
we have a central employment policy guideline, namely the creation of sustainable and high-quality jobs in europe.
it is not the right instrument, because only a high level of employment and really good jobs will ensure the sustainability of public finances and also of the pension system.
there is also exaggeration, for example when member states are strongly urged to introduce a new social, climate-friendly growth indicator.
the important thing is to eliminate the shifting of the tax burden from the labour factor to the environmental factor.
we also find paragraph 60 critical, which calls on the eu commission to include environmental and climate considerations in the european semester.
there can be no sustainability if parents, especially mothers are kept as slaves of society.
environmental policy is important, and there is consensus on this.
as a shadow rapporteur for the green labour initiative, i have tried to focus on innovation so that we can achieve both environmental protection and growth.
i have tried to focus environmental protection on decentralization and subsidiarity as long as there is no crossborder pollution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for almost two years now we have been engaged in a complex process of negotiations whose aim is nothing less than to establish a new global partnership to meet the inseparable challenge of poverty eradication and sustainable development.
it should enable everyone to participate actively and ensure environmental sustainability and respect for the limits of our planet.
national public funds are the largest source of stable and directly available funding for most governments and are therefore at the heart of sustainable development financing.
it is a question of striking a strong balance between the three dimensions of sustainable development: economic, social and environmental.
the outcome of the summit will thus provide a solid basis for the conference of the parties, cop 21, at the un framework convention on climate change in paris in december.
it is essential to create an enabling environment for development, to strengthen institutional capacity, to stimulate trade and investment, to invest in education and to encourage science, technology and innovation.
we remain fully committed to ensuring its success, as it will be crucial for the outcome of the post-2015 summit in new york and the climate conference in paris later this year.
we need an ambitious and coherent engagement and agreement, covering all means of implementation: aid, investment and domestic resources, as well as an enabling policy environment.
the european union stands ready to play its full part in implementing the sustainable development goals at home and through our external actions.
we need an integrated, transparent and reliable framework to keep track not only of our financial commitments, but also of overall progress towards achieving the sustainable development goals.
more than eur 16 billion will be dedicated to addressing environment and climate change objectives.
improved domestic resource mobilisation can indeed significantly contribute to a more sustainable and reliable sourcing of revenue.
in a few days' time, addis ababa will decide on one of the milestones on the way to the new sustainable development goals, namely the financing to achieve these goals.
because often these countries are rich: rich in raw materials, rich in young, creative people and rich in considerable potential for sustainable economic development.
we asked prime minister tsipras to present his government’s ideas for sustainable growth and prosperity in greece.
the right answer is to deepen economic and monetary union, to make it more sustainable.
we want an agreement with our partners, but an agreement which will signal a definitive way out of the crisis, which will give the impression that there is light at the end of the tunnel; an agreement which will provide for credible and necessary reforms - no one is denying them - which will transfer the burdens to those who really have the ability to carry them and who have been protected by governments for the last five years and have not carried the burdens that have been transferred entirely to the shoulders of wage-earners, workers, pensioners, those who can no longer bear burdens, and of course with redistributive policies in favour of the low and middle classes for a balanced and sustainable development perspective.
and of course our proposal also includes the request for an immediate commitment to start a real dialogue, a real debate on tackling the problem of public debt sustainability.
it is about solutions that are sustainable, and not just about explaining what needs to be done and what you expect from others.
tunisia has consistently been the main beneficiary of the so-called umbrella funds, which are intended to supplement the financial allocations of selected partners on the basis of their progress towards deep and sustainable democracy.
tunisia’s socio- economic transition demands considerable reforms and integration of a favourable climate for investment, growth and employment.
is iran a reliable partner in the nuclear energy field?
the framework conditions for eu-india cooperation in research and innovation are relatively satisfactory, resulting in a stable and reliable climate for cooperation.
the call for greater involvement of employees and civil society in corporate governance, and for these to be aligned with undefined environmental and social policy objectives, also dilutes the shareholder-oriented draft law.
the call for greater involvement of employees and civil society in corporate governance, and for these to be geared towards undefined environmental and social policy objectives, also dilutes the shareholder-oriented draft directive.
‒ there was an urgent need to strengthen eu emissions trading.
i therefore voted in favour of the establishment and use of a market stability reserve for the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme.
the market stability mechanism is intended to counteract the decline in prices and oversupply of emission allowances by introducing it on 1 january 2019. this should make investments in climate-friendly technologies worthwhile in the future.
the decision also prevents companies from moving to regions outside the eu with lower environmental standards, by protecting energy-intensive companies that are state-of-the-art and by providing free certificates.
‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the market stability reserve for the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme.
europe has taken the lead in emissions trading globally.
‒ yesterday we voted on the market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading system.
the european commission has proposed to reform the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) by introducing a market stability reserve (msr) from 2021. the msr allows the commission to issue or refuse additional co2 allowances in order to protect the eu ets from cyclical fluctuations and to cancel the excess supply of allowances that has accumulated in recent years.
however, european industries have sounded the alarm, pointing to the competitiveness, deindustrialisation of europe and the impact of the ukrainian crisis, which is turning attention to the security of energy supply.
however, in october 2014, eu leaders reached an agreement on the 2030 climate and energy package.
they expressly support the commission's proposal on msr and that additional co2 allowances be issued beyond 2020 for the industrial sectors that are particularly affected by the shift of co2 emissions.
the report includes the following compromises: (i) entry into force in 2019; (ii) co2 emissions shifting: the commission is to draw up a proposal; (iii) innovation fund: an additional fund to support breakthrough technologies is to be set up.
‒ yesterday we voted on the market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading system.
the european commission has proposed to reform the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) by introducing a market stability reserve (msr) from 2021. the msr allows the commission to issue or refuse additional co2 allowances in order to protect the eu ets from cyclical fluctuations and to cancel the excess supply of allowances that has accumulated in recent years.
however, european industries have sounded the alarm, pointing to the competitiveness, deindustrialisation of europe and the impact of the ukrainian crisis, which is turning attention to the security of energy supply.
however, in october 2014, eu leaders reached an agreement on the 2030 climate and energy package.
they expressly support the commission's proposal on the market stability reserve (msr) and that additional co2 allowances be issued beyond 2020 for those industrial sectors that are particularly affected by the shift of co2 emissions.
the report includes the following compromises: (i) entry into force in 2019; (ii) co2 emissions shifting: the commission is to draw up a proposal; (iii) innovation fund: an additional fund to support breakthrough technologies is to be set up.
‒ parliament's resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technical cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation on the association of the swiss confederation to the framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020' and the european atomic energy community research and training programme complementing 'horizon 2020' and on the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities of 'fusion for energy'.
it is based on the erroneous assumption that man-made climate change is the cause of climate change and that its effects must be addressed through policy.
‒ it is important to establish a functioning circular economy across europe, enabling future generations to make sustainable and efficient use of raw materials from primary and secondary sources.
i am also against the inclusion of environmental risks in ratings and capital requirements for banks.
the original version of the owninitiative report should have required municipalities to always respect environmental criteria in all procurement procedures.
this is a sustainable way of promoting strong relations with the countries on the eastern and southern borders of the european union.
the question we are faced with, however, is how we can reconcile environmental protection, animal welfare on the one hand, with other economic and political constraints in the future.
both parties further agreed on the implementation of the energy agreement, the action plan for telecoms and an arrangement for the mitrovica bridge.
the text as presented and amended by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and rural development cannot guarantee that products from cloned animals or their descendants will not end up on our plates.
this concerns the exemption for the import of seal products from seals hunted for the purpose of sustainable management of marine resources (bmr exemption) and the exemption for the import of seal products from hunting traditionally conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities (gi exemption).
this concerns the exemption for the import of seal products from seals hunted for the purpose of sustainable management of marine resources (bmr exemption) and the exemption for the import of seal products from hunting traditionally conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities (gi exemption).
this concerns the exemption for the import of seal products from seals hunted for the purpose of sustainable management of marine resources (bmr exemption) and the exemption for the import of seal products from hunting traditionally conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities (gi exemption).
this concerns the exemption for the import of seal products from seals hunted for the purpose of sustainable management of marine resources (bmr exemption) and the exemption for the import of seal products from hunting traditionally conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities (gi exemption).
i have voted in favour of this report, together with my group, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
at the same time, i am pleased that my proposal to make tackling plastic waste in the sea an integral part of the blue economy has been taken into account.
investments in the blue economy should include, inter alia, nature conservation and sustainable use of resources and should be integrated into existing and future programmes.
first, the report again raises a lot of dust for nothing, for example when it calls on the commission to 'create regulatory and legal conditions that encourage investment in renewable energy in the blue economy and to create a clear, stable framework to support research, business and government that allows increased investment in innovative projects to develop renewable energy'.
cities are indeed engines of growth, and that is why they are particularly vulnerable to social problems on the one hand, but also to environmental problems on the other.
the commissioners for digital, transport, energy and social affairs all have ideas for cities.
it is also important that regional policy is used as efficiently as possible to support investment in sustainable development and the creation of good jobs.
from sustainable energy to digital networks, we could go in other directions.
this situation is even more unacceptable when we know that, first of all, cohesion policy can be such a powerful tool to really change societies and to make the european union more social, more sustainable and more democratic.
we have to start fighting now to make cohesion policy in the european union an investment tool that creates a sustainable, ecological, social and democratic european union.
the report also aims to achieve one of the objectives of the report: to put urban policy in the minds of brussels and strasbourg, and to make sustainability a reality.
and i mean, a lot of the impulses that were generated are sustainable, they're still resonating today.
and finally, it is also true that for the eu, sustainable fisheries is a condition for these partnership agreements.
third: transport sustainability.
i am thinking here about decarbonisation but also about actions against other environmental impacts – noise, air quality and similar.
our work is everlasting and i look forward to really cooperating with this house in a constructive and sustainable manner throughout my entire mandate.
the report provides many good indications for greater intermodal connectivity, for more sustainability in the transport sector, for the upgrading of transnational transport links.
the european union is also expected to regulate new ideas for tolls, levies, increasingly stringent environmental objectives, and even local transport in the city.
where would we be today if oil taxes, motor vehicle taxes, environmental taxes in the nation states had actually been re-invested in infrastructure and environmental protection and not diverted to social systems?
we want more sustainability, we want more competitiveness of our infrastructures and our companies, so that we do not lose out in global competition!
the waste disposal cannot be done without mobility, and in general mobility is one of the fundamental rights of the people of europe, and for this we also need all means of transport.
the transport sector has a direct impact on our daily lives, on the economy, the environment, the climate, health, social aspects, tourism and much more, and yet its importance is so often so greatly underestimated.
it is therefore of the utmost importance to take stock and define the way forward with a view to sustainable mobility and a single european transport area.
(applause) so i would ask you very kindly not to pay attention to how often i say the word 'social' in my mouth, my heart is full of social, not to pay attention to how often i say 'sustainable', not to pay attention to how often i say 'economic', 'financial', 'budgetary'.
we have launched the digital single market and the energy union.
(laughter) could i have the permission of the president of parliament to distribute the text on climate change, because that is important and i am running out of time.
(applause and laughter) i would like to say a few words, given the time constraints we have, on climate change.
we are tackling the root causes of the next migration wave in the coming decades if we address climate change problems in a proper way, because tomorrow we will have climate refugees and we have to be aware of that.
we should not be surprised and astonished if the first climate refugees come to europe.
the eu’s priority has to be to adopt an ambitious, robust and binding global climate deal.
europe is not neutral when it comes to climate change.
we are facing one of the biggest problems of this century, and i think it needs to be treated on par with our fight against climate change, as a collective problem, as a global problem.
in the context of the major challenges of sustainable development, namely the fight against global warming by mobilizing our efforts in the run-up to decisive international conferences, cop 21 is a key event because the stakes are crucial.
i abstained, together with my group, the committee on the environment, when voting on this motion for a resolution.
the agreement also guarantees the conservation and sustainable use of fisheries and partnerships between companies and organisations developing economic activities in the fisheries sector.
‒ i voted today in favour of the report on a fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar: fishing opportunities and financial contribution, as i support the positions and proposals it contains in the context of a sustainable fisheries policy.
i agree with this report, since i recognize that greece and italy are among the countries with a comparatively high level of pollution.
‒ i voted against the report on the urban dimension of eu policies today because i consider the field of urban development to be very important, taking into account all its social, economic and environmental challenges and the increasing phenomenon of rural migration, and because i consider the report's opposite approach to be unprofitable, ignoring the needs and environments of urban communities and metropolitan regions in europe.
we know that very well, but i believe this is the best way to get there in what is a very tough political climate both on the israeli side and on the palestinian side.
in the current regional environment we cannot afford to stand still.
it is very important to stress that this is a security agreement, also and first of all for the environment, the region of iran, which is a region that does not enjoy very high levels of security nowadays.
it will be difficult, it will involve a lot of energy and unity and careful management, but i see this as our role.
employment and social affairs are not a waste product of international competitiveness, but the main objective of european policy.
on the other hand, however, urgencies cannot be the way to establish fundamental political positions, whether to negotiate or not, when something is being discussed in committees with ratification, or when we are involved, for example, in whether or not we have the southern line in energy areas, or whether we leave the entire supply of the european union to the russians.
by shifting freight to rail and sea transport, we are protecting our environment and reducing congestion on roads and in air transport.
i voted against the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: taking stock and moving forward with sustainable mobility.
a college degree is a waste of time and a lot of money.
i therefore voted against the report and also recommended that the committee on the environment should oppose its adoption.
the report focuses on eu law in 2012 and 2013 in policy areas covering issues such as health and consumer protection, environmental protection, the internal market and services.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we greens also welcome the adoption of the new agenda 2030, and we are naturally pleased that the concept of sustainability has been given a central role in this agenda.
we have been following this for some years in the development committee, and i think that with the aim of sustainability we have put a new emphasis on development policy.
we usually pass very good resolutions here in parliament - also at the cop conferences - and then, when the pledge is taken - and next year the pledge is taken, namely to reform the emissions trading system - then we have to jump, also, at the end of the day, a little higher.
and if we're not careful, according to a study by oxford university, we'll have up to 200 million climate refugees by 2050. in this respect, let us act together, as the first vice-president has just said.
we must act coherently, think about it, and make a policy out of a single cast in foreign policy, let climate diplomacy work, in development policy, in environmental policy: then it becomes a shoe.
i have to say, madam president, vice-president timmermans, there used to be an eu sustainability strategy.
do you not think that we need to have a new sustainability strategy to show how we are implementing the 17 goals and to link all the facets of the policy?
so, our ecological footprint is way too high.
so not just an energy revolution, but a material revolution.
i think the proposal on emissions trading in particular is ambitious and it was important that it came before the summer break.
climate change must remain at the top of our agenda.
and it's precisely in the face of the dramatic refugee crisis that we're experiencing that john kerry, the us secretary of state, has said that we have to take action on climate change, because otherwise we're going to see even larger movements of refugees in the future because of climate change.
in heating, what happens next week will save us as much energy in the next few years as 47 nuclear power plants produce.
so, energy efficiency has huge potential.
we can then put the money into our industry and our craftsmen who make energy efficiency, and we do not need to send it to putin or to the oil sheikhs, who unfortunately also partly finance things that cause us great problems.
so i think we're still on a pretty good path for the time to 2020 in terms of renewable energy.
i would like to comment on only one part of the summer package, namely the revision of the energy labelling directive, because of the time constraints.
the energy label is also a successful european model, making it easier for consumers to buy the most energy-efficient products.
surveys have also shown that over 80% of eu citizens are familiar with the energy label.
the commission has also proposed that the energy labels be revised in a manner that is consistent with the objectives of the directive.
the energy labels for the various product groups are now, above all, misleading and no longer fulfil their role as a consumer-friendly instrument for saving electricity.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when this sector is going through a difficult period, i would like to reiterate at the outset that agriculture is a fundamental sector for the european economy in terms of employment, social cohesion and sustainable development.
they are even driving to the wall the companies that have only just invested to be sustainable.
although i believe that eu countries should show solidarity with the countries most affected by the current situation, i strongly condemn the approach of the commission and the president of the european parliament to use the current migration crisis as an opportunity to further centralise the eu rather than to propose a sustainable solution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
although i believe that eu countries should show solidarity with the countries most affected by the current situation, i strongly condemn the approach of the commission and the president of the european parliament to use the current migration crisis as an opportunity to further centralise the eu rather than to propose a sustainable solution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
to boost the economy, this money needs to be available now, and not just somehow, but very targeted, for meaningful projects that create jobs that are environmentally sustainable and transparent.
an eu policy of support that follows the logic of rapid success rates and increasingly focuses on private investment will not be successful in the long term and will not be sustainable.
the question is, mr vice-president, what are we going to do with all this investment waste?
first of all, this is a waste of money.
they are the ones who know what the social, environmental and economic needs are, the problems, but also the challenges on the ground.
we do not want to waste time.
if we do not succeed in doing this and at the same time take the initiative to finally pursue an inclusive policy, if we do not make a new policy for africa, including a new trade policy, and also see climate protection and refugees together, if we do not even present this as a comprehensive concept to the european citizens, then these citizens will drive us all out of the way.
the commission has also proposed to amend the list of countries with a high level of environmental protection.
the commission has also proposed to amend the list of countries with a high level of environmental protection.
the commission has also proposed to amend the list of countries with a high level of environmental protection.
what is supposed to be an investment package to "boost" the greek economy, as so often attempted, will prove to be a gigantic waste.
local authorities are an important part of development cooperation and sustainable development.
the committee on transport is also affected by this scandal, because we know that without a change in mobility, climate change will not be stopped.
transport is responsible for 24% of emissions, road transport in this sector for 72%.
in transport, emissions increased by 28%.
so, without changing mobility, we're not going to stop climate change.
that is why we said that we cannot take the second and third steps without the first, and we decided that the transport sector must also reduce its co2 emissions by 20% by 2020 on the basis of 1990. we decided that by a large majority.
this is also a fraud on the taxpayer, because in many countries the tax on cars is measured by co2 emissions, which we have always supported.
and of course, it's a huge environmental damage that we can't afford.
many so-called legal loopholes have also been used to reduce emissions.
let me speak frankly: this is fraud committed by one company and this fraud has put at stake public trust in european cars, and has seriously put at stake the credibility of our legal system and its efficiency in protecting consumers and the environment, which is the backbone of the european union’s actions and regulations.
on the second point, regarding accelerating the change in the regulatory framework for emissions, the question was whether we noticed that something was wrong.
we noticed that the system of testing emissions in laboratories is not the right one, and the commission proposed draft regulations on real-driving emission (rde) testing a few years ago.
the new legislation will improve the test procedure for directly assessing the regulated emissions of light-duty vehicles under real driving conditions.
the new testing procedure will eliminate the possibility of using defeat devices and it will ensure that the regulatory emissions limits are actually met.
it's true that volkswagen has manipulated the emissions figures.
as environmental, consumer and health policy makers in this house, we have become accustomed over the almost ten years we have been making the automotive regulations for clean air or climate protection or fuel efficiency to the fact that the representatives of the automotive industry actually always see all our rules as an attack on their corporate strategies.
what i didn't expect, despite all the negative experiences with lobbyists from all the car companies - and that was the only surprise in the last few weeks - was that a company as big and as powerful as vw, when it can't stop an ambitious test cycle, then with criminal energy systematically cheats the authorities for years.
i've kind of gotten used to this old idea that you see environmental policy as a liability.
again and again the chancellor of the autonomous communities is saying that not only do we have a climate chancellor in germany, but we also have a chancellor of the autonomous communities.
and this is not just true of the euro-diesel standards, but also of fuel efficiency standards or climate protection standards.
it is not environmental legislation that is endangering industry, but the protection of industry at the wrong level.
the kind of criminal energy that vw has put into its fake software, i can't see it for other companies at the moment, but i don't know any car company that doesn't have a problem with test cycles.
we've had environmental groups come in and say, "oh, that's not right.
the people in charge at vw wanted to save costs, but they saved at the expense of the environment and health.
nitrogen oxides are one of the main causes of ozone formation, exacerbating asthma and many other health problems.
commissioner, i would really like to encourage you to put a little more energy into this and not just rely on the national authorities.
but it is also necessary for environmental policy to achieve the medium-term climate goals, and it can be cleaned up.
i have to say, madam president, the vw emissions scandal is not just a failure of individuals - this must be said clearly - but an economic fraud comparable to the major banking scandals of recent years.
what we need are safe procedures and tests to implement standards so that european cars are actually low-emission and energy-efficient.
secondly, the principle of real driving emission testing must be applied, because i do not think it can be explained that the laboratory values are more or less decisive and that the actual real emissions are not taken into account.
it would also contribute to the protection of the air and the environment and would benefit consumers through greater transparency.
the us environmental protection agency is now investigating, but it has in the past argued before the us copyright office not to allow the circumvention of technological protection in cars.
i think that the public - at least in germany - is much less interested in how emissions are measured and what the environmental impact is, than in the question: what is going on with vw?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the oil crisis.
vw, for example, can also regain confidence by supporting the development and implementation of the new emissions tests.
i think it is also important for the european car industry as a whole to focus more on innovative and sustainable powertrains.
european diesel technology is a success story, innovation, co2 reduction, economy, durability benefiting the environment and customers.
and if they care so much about the environment, why doesn't the us take care of the us trucks, these giant nitrous oxide dumpsters?
this is not even close to the ecological advances made by the automobile industry.
secondly, we need legislation to measure real emissions rde quickly, and i hope the commission will do so quickly, without any further fraud.
the irresponsible manipulation of emissions values is the biggest challenge facing the company, and one that volkswagen will certainly have to contend with for some years.
the status quo is not sustainable for the people of syria, its neighbors or the global players.
such a waste of money is not acceptable to the taxpayer.
this will provide a sustainable and comprehensive stimulus to the tunisian economy and support the reform, modernisation and transition process in the eu's neighbourhood.
‒ i voted today in favour of the report on limiting emissions of certain pollutants into the air.
i therefore support all measures which help in a practical way to make our economy more sustainable.
‒ i have agreed to the report on limiting emissions of certain pollutants into the air.
air pollution is a transnational problem requiring action at union level.
‒ this report focuses on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants.
as part of the air quality package, the eu commission presented the proposal for a directive on the reduction of pollution from medium combustion plants in december 2013. the directive is intended to apply to combustion plants with a heat output of up to 50 megawatts; this applies in particular to large buildings as well as small industrial plants.
while small and large combustion plants are regulated, emissions from medium-sized combustion plants are not regulated.
our committee, itre, supports this report for the following main reasons: air pollution is a transnational problem therefore regulation at eu level is necessary.
according to a commission impact assessment, the health costs of air pollution in europe are estimated at around eur 940 million per year.
‒ this report focuses on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants.
as part of the air quality package, the eu commission presented the proposal for a directive on the reduction of pollution from medium combustion plants in december 2013. the directive is intended to apply to combustion plants with a heat output of up to 50 megawatts; this applies in particular to large buildings as well as small industrial plants.
while small and large combustion plants are regulated, emissions from medium-sized combustion plants are not regulated.
the parliamentary committee on itre supports this report for the following main reasons: air pollution is a transnational problem therefore regulation at eu level is necessary.
according to a commission impact assessment, the health costs of air pollution in europe are estimated at around eur 940 million per year.
‒ this report focuses on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants.
as part of the air quality package, the eu commission presented the proposal for a directive on the reduction of pollution from medium combustion plants in december 2013. the directive is intended to apply to combustion plants with a heat output of up to 50 megawatts; this applies in particular to large buildings as well as small industrial plants.
while small and large combustion plants are regulated, emissions from medium-sized combustion plants are not regulated.
our committee, itre, supports this report for the following main reasons: air pollution is a transnational problem therefore regulation at eu level is necessary.
according to a commission impact assessment, the health costs of air pollution in europe are estimated at around eur 940 million per year.
‒ this report focuses on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants.
as part of the air quality package, the eu commission presented the proposal for a directive on the reduction of pollution from medium combustion plants in december 2013. the directive is intended to apply to combustion plants with a heat output of up to 50 megawatts; this applies in particular to large buildings as well as small industrial plants.
while small and large combustion plants are regulated, emissions from medium-sized combustion plants are not regulated.
our committee, itre, supports this report for the following main reasons: air pollution is a transnational problem therefore regulation at eu level is necessary.
according to a commission impact assessment, the health costs of air pollution in europe are estimated at around eur 940 million per year.
‒ i do not agree with the regulation of emissions from combustion plants with a capacity of between 1 and 50 mw.
it doesn't matter where the air pollution is caused.
‒ in the report we proposed to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union as follows: new provisions are to be introduced, such as market consultancy, the new innovation partnership as a procedure, the introduction of compliance with environmental, social and labour law as an essential condition, the evaluation of the criteria in no particular order, a pricing methodology based on the most economically advantageous offer.
‒ in the report we proposed to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union as follows: new provisions are to be introduced, such as market consultancy, the new innovation partnership as a procedure, the introduction of compliance with environmental, social and labour law as an essential condition, the evaluation of the criteria in no particular order, a pricing methodology based on the most economically advantageous offer.
‒ in the report we proposed to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union as follows: new provisions are to be introduced, such as market consultancy, the new innovation partnership as a procedure, the introduction of compliance with environmental, social and labour law as an essential condition, the evaluation of the criteria in no particular order, a pricing methodology based on the most economically advantageous offer.
‒ in the report we proposed to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union as follows: new provisions are to be introduced, such as market consultancy, the new innovation partnership as a procedure, the introduction of compliance with environmental, social and labour law as an essential condition, the evaluation of the criteria in no particular order, a pricing methodology based on the most economically advantageous offer.
we still need to make this courageous choice, and we will need to do so at the paris climate conference next december.
and we europeans ourselves must be able to set up a large carbon market to direct investment towards the best technologies.
i want to commend the role of the european parliament in the climate negotiations and, as long as you can, support the efforts of the countries, yourselves and the whole of europe, so that we can have an agreement.
it's very important that we can raise the $100 billion needed for energy transition in the most vulnerable countries or developing countries.
i hope to return to the european parliament one day with at least this pride, not simply of having been the host of a conference in paris, but of having been there on the day when the states of the world, supported by local authorities from all over the planet, who will also be represented, with all the associations, organizations, companies, trade unions, will have been able, for the coming decades, to resolve a large part of the climate issue.
we will of course be dealing with the digitisation of our societies, with sustainable development, with a common energy policy, with free trade agreements with other countries in accordance with our principles.
i could also imagine a debt relief for investments in renewable energy and measures to combat climate change.
this is the result of an incredible industrial scandal and a criminal energy at vw that has been scourged enough times.
but i would like to take advantage of your presence here to tell you that the supposedly well-intentioned protection of the interests of the car industry, which you, in particular, as the well-known car chancellor, mrs merkel, have guaranteed - but on this matter mr sarkozy, and most recently mr hollande, have also repeatedly assured you - that this supposed extension of the interests of industry into european legislation when it comes to climate and the environment was wrong and that it was precisely this protection that has encouraged hybrids in companies like vw.
the climate summit, mr hollande, to which we europeans are going anyway with a bag of tricks because our 2030 targets are not enough to achieve the 2°c target, must not be burdened by the fact that we are still standing by this old protectionism of the car industry.
(applause from the centre) we have had successes, for example, in preparing the climate conference.
and a good climate agreement is a contribution to preventing refugee crises.
if you want to fix the capital market, we need not just a capital markets union, but we need instruments to channel this capital into sustainable investment.
fourthly, we must urgently talk about the unsecured credit system, because that is what leads to the low-interest environment that is partly responsible for the crises.
this creates an environment for consumers in europe that strengthens the single market, especially in the digital environment.
we are aware that we need a number of standardisations to ensure that businesses and consumers actually have a single regulatory environment.
we must ensure that appropriate inspections are carried out and that red mud is properly classified as hazardous waste.
it notes that this environmental disaster is linked to poor implementation of eu law, deficiencies in inspections, gaps in relevant eu law and the way the operator of the plant operates.
the eu commission is repeatedly criticised for not closely monitoring the implementation of key elements of the environmental liability directive, for example.
the eu parliament, however, refuses to accept the only logical recommendation, namely to hand back to the member states the responsibility for the in-depth control of their own national environmental laws.
while the eu parliament laments that the existing european mechanisms are not working, it is nonetheless calling for 'more europe' immediately by extending the environmental acquis, by additional capacity at european level (a new agency in hungary?
i think we need to remind ourselves that paris is not just any other climate event, but that we have the very last chance to get a successor to kyoto.
if we fail to do so, the world community will be divided on climate policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
i do not think that we need to change the fact that we are going to have zero emissions by 2050, and one or two wishes from my group will play a part in that.
in conclusion, commissioner, you need an ambitious document to give us an ambitious treaty, to give europe a fair chance in terms of competitiveness and the climate.
the commission is not climate change is a global problem, and we need global solutions.
karl-heinz florenz has just mentioned carbon leakage.
the cement manufacturers, the aluminium manufacturers, they're all on our mat and they want to claim carbon leakage in these areas.
this is air transport, this is shipping, and it's in these sectors that we have the biggest increases in co2 emissions, up to 200-300 percent in aviation.
what was decided at the g7 and what the epp put forward was welcomed by everyone, including the environmental associations.
i would like to emphasize very strongly the point made by some colleagues on air and sea transport, and then make a specific argument: if we implement our climate policy, lime, cement and steel producers will have to cut back by 40%, in some cases even more.
the situation is serious and therefore it is urgent that all co2 emitters be included in the climate negotiations.
but one of the biggest climate killers is much too little talked about: the carbon-equivalent emissions from global livestock farming.
so, to exclude the mass farming of animals from the climate negotiations is simply outrageous.
so my appeal is that we need to put animal welfare on the agenda to meet climate goals.
if we don't, then i can only say that we care more about the steak than the climate, and then we can say, "meal!"
i have to say, madam president, in 1997, i attended the kyoto conference with the then environment minister, angela merkel, and we both advocated specific rather than absolute co2 targets.
in the meantime, mrs merkel wants to save the world's climate.
i have to say, madam president, in the excellent report by gilles pargneaux we called for a price to be put on carbon.
it's high time that carbon gets a price - either through a certificate system, like we have in the eu, or through a co2 tax or a tax, like other countries do.
i would therefore ask you, commissioner cañete: will the eu take initiatives to ensure that we have something in the paris protocol on carbon pricing and a global carbon market?
if we had that, the carbon leakage problems would be less because others - especially the main competitors - would also tax the carbon.
the bad thing is that it needs a guy who invests quite a lot of money, quite a lot of time and energy for four years of his young life, to get justice for 500 million europeans and everybody on the european market – after 15 years of injustice, obviously.
high inflation, rising energy prices and rising unemployment have resulted in about one third of ukrainians now living at or below the poverty line.
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 is imperative for me; so it's important that paris increases climate finance commitments at the end of the year.
climate change may become a threat to the international community as a whole.
the extent to which climate change is reversible is not yet known.
the biggest emitters of greenhouse gases in particular need to be made more accountable.
the agreements to be reached in paris must be legally binding and show a clear commitment to protecting the global climate.
it is important that the negotiations for the paris climate conference are well prepared and that the results go beyond mere declarations.
‒ the report addresses key issues ahead of the paris climate conference in december 2015, which is expected to result in a new international climate agreement.
topics range from the eu's contribution to emissions reduction to the importance of climate diplomacy.
although the ecr shadow rapporteur has signed 14 of the 20 compromise amendments (on issues such as the recognition of human rights in climate policy and the importance of predictable green climate fund investment), i have decided to abstain because some of the issues have proved unacceptable to my party alfa.
however, we voted for the linking of the european emissions trading system with other emissions trading systems in order to reduce the potential risks of shifting effects.
‒ the report addresses key issues ahead of the paris climate conference in december 2015, which is expected to result in a new international climate agreement.
topics range from the eu's contribution to emissions reduction to the importance of climate diplomacy.
although the ecr shadow rapporteur has signed 14 of the 20 compromise amendments (on issues such as the recognition of human rights in climate policy and the importance of predictable green climate fund investment), i have decided to abstain because some of the issues have proved unacceptable to my party alfa.
however, we voted for the linking of the european emissions trading system with other emissions trading systems in order to reduce the potential risks of shifting effects.
‒ the report addresses key issues ahead of the paris climate conference in december 2015, which is expected to result in a new international climate agreement.
topics range from the eu's contribution to emissions reduction to the importance of climate diplomacy.
although the ecr shadow rapporteur has signed 14 of the 20 compromise amendments (on issues such as the recognition of human rights in climate policy and the importance of predictable green climate fund investment), i have decided to abstain because some of the issues have proved unacceptable to my party alfa.
however, we voted for the linking of the european emissions trading system with other emissions trading systems in order to reduce the potential risks of shifting effects.
‒ the report addresses key issues ahead of the paris climate conference in december 2015, which is expected to result in a new international climate agreement.
topics range from the eu's contribution to emissions reduction to the importance of climate diplomacy.
although the ecr shadow rapporteur has signed 14 of the 20 compromise amendments (on issues such as the recognition of human rights in climate policy and the importance of predictable green climate fund investment), i have decided to abstain because some of the issues have proved unacceptable to my party alfa.
however, we voted for the linking of the european emissions trading system with other emissions trading systems in order to reduce the potential risks of shifting effects.
it was difficult at times, but there was always a friendly, constructive working environment, so i think that's certainly a reason for the result.
we will aim at exploring possibilities for developing safe and sustainable reception capacities in the affected regions and providing lasting prospects and appropriate procedures for refugees and their families, including through access to education and jobs, until return to their country of origin is possible.
‒ not only in the context of climate change, but also with the aim of ensuring an optimal quality of life in our cities and communities, it is important that we can reliably evaluate emissions from cars.
‒ despite several attempts by the alfa delegation to produce a balanced text, the resolution resulting from the vw scandal contains unfounded allegations of the complicity of the member states and the commission in the emissions scandal.
‒ despite several attempts by the alfa delegation to produce a balanced text, the resolution resulting from the vw scandal contains unfounded allegations of complicity of the member states and the commission in the emissions scandal.
‒ despite several attempts by the alfa delegation to produce a balanced text, the resolution resulting from the vw scandal contains unfounded allegations of complicity of the member states and the commission in the emissions scandal.
diesel technology is mature, low-consumption, and emissions are manageable!
to close the gap between real consumption and emissions, the eu is working on a new test cycle and an emissions test that better reflects real driving situations.
‒ despite several attempts by the alfa delegation to produce a balanced text, the resolution resulting from the vw scandal contains unfounded allegations of complicity of the member states and the commission in the emissions scandal.
it calls for the immediate introduction of a new eu-level supervisory authority, accountability of 'glass companies' to the state (not their owners), new eu responsibilities and a tightening of eu emission limits which are obviously not sustainable anyway.
the new funding period makes it very clear that investment in infrastructure projects, including telecommunications projects, investment in research and technology, support for smes, sustainable development, investment in the labour market and the fight against unemployment are important components of this cohesion policy, to name just a few.
it is highly unsatisfactory as it contributes to a climate of distrust against the european union and its institutions.
the commission has already taken account of the need to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
member of the commission.– madam president, even though air pollution in the european union has significantly decreased over the recent decades, we still have a very long way to go.
the severe air pollution episodes in north-west europe in the spring once again demonstrated that pure air is as much an environmental as a health concern.
this is why i am so keen for us to make progress in the negotiations on the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
this proposal is a key part of the commission’s clean air policy package and an important deliverable for the 7th environment action programme.
i will take this opportunity to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, julie girling, and her colleagues from the environment committee for their commitment and for their hard work on the proposal.
i would also like to acknowledge the opinions of the committee on industry, research and energy and committee on agriculture and rural development.
agricultural emissions make the largest relative contribution to pm2.5 in europe through ammonia emissions.
for instance, the major air pollution problem in paris in the spring of 2014 was predominantly caused by agricultural pollution.
with regards to methane, where some members have concerns, this is increasingly driving background concentration of ground-level ozone in the eu, and has a strong climate impact.
the increase in the already ambitious reduction targets resulting from the vote in the environment committee is unacceptable.
the two committees call for methane to be excluded from the scope of the directive, as methane should also be regulated through climate policy.
because we as the epp see the danger that the tightening up introduced by the majority in the environment committee will lead us back to a situation where we will achieve nothing in the end, where the forces which do not want the regulation to win the day because they say that parliament is exaggerating.
i hope that we will soon have a large majority in favour of a text which is close to the commission's proposal and which rejects the unrealistic demands of the committee on the environment.
air pollution is a huge problem.
i just remember that a few days ago, when we were discussing the emissions scandal, everyone said: we need to have stronger regulations, we need to do something about it now.
the difference between the commission and the european parliament, that is 43 000 deaths, with what the environment committee has discussed and then decided.
but we should not go to waste and throw all levels of ambition overboard.
the commission has also taken its time with real driving emissions.
i hope that in ten years' time we will have clear rules on mercury, as we have on industrial emissions.
the s&d group has already seen to it that the agreed energy efficiency targets were suddenly raised from 27% to 40% in the pargneaux report.
they are consciously accepting that there is no agreement, ladies and gentlemen, and that in the case of emissions, you need an agreement.
the vote today will decide whether sustainable agriculture and forestry with livestock farming will continue in the european union.
but it's about us showing that we're serious about climate policy.
and that is why we must also take methane emissions into account!
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the structural and cohesion policy and agriculture/environment alone account for more than two thirds of the eu budget, although the implementation of programmes and activities is often poor, particularly in the area of cohesion policy.
our demands for a sustainable, balanced and transparent budget based on an efficient, subsidiary and additionality budgetary policy at european level have not been taken into account in this draft budget.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the structural and cohesion policy and agriculture/environment alone account for more than two thirds of the eu budget, although the implementation of programmes and activities is often poor, particularly in the area of cohesion policy.
our demands for a sustainable, balanced and transparent budget based on an efficient, subsidiary and additionality budgetary policy at european level have not been taken into account in this draft budget.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the structural and cohesion policy and agriculture/environment alone account for more than two thirds of the eu budget, although the implementation of programmes and activities is often poor, particularly in the area of cohesion policy.
our demands for a sustainable, balanced and transparent budget have not been taken into account in the present draft budget.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the structural and cohesion policy and agriculture/environment alone account for more than two thirds of the eu budget, although the implementation of programmes and activities is often poor, particularly in the area of cohesion policy.
our demands for a sustainable, balanced and transparent budget based on an efficient, subsidiary and additionality budgetary policy at european level have not been taken into account in this draft budget.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the structural and cohesion policy and agriculture/environment alone account for more than two thirds of the eu budget, although the implementation of programmes and activities is often poor, particularly in the area of cohesion policy.
our demands for a sustainable, balanced and transparent budget based on an efficient, subsidiary and additionality budgetary policy at european level have not been taken into account in this draft budget.
‒ i voted today in favour of the proposal to reject the council proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union, as i consider an increase in the number of judges to be a complete waste of taxpayers' money, which i do not support.
the proposal includes technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of unintentional red coral catches, the unintentional capture of seabirds, sea turtles and whales and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm convention area.
‒ the proposal for revised national emission ceilings (nec directive) is part of the european commission's clean air package and replaces current regulations on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides or ammonia.
‒ the proposal for revised national emission ceilings (nec directive) is part of the european commission's clean air package and replaces current regulations on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides or ammonia.
‒ the proposal for revised national emission ceilings (nec directive) is part of the european commission's clean air package and replaces current regulations on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides or ammonia.
‒ the proposal for revised national emission ceilings (nec directive) is part of the european commission's clean air package and replaces current regulations on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides or ammonia.
we also had to note in this report that the greens and the socialists would rather have no agreement on emissions than to reach an agreement.
‒ the proposal for revised national emission ceilings (nec directive) is part of the european commission's clean air package and replaces current regulations on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides or ammonia.
but it must be clear, and it must remain clear, where the responsibility for a sustainable budgetary policy, for a successful reform agenda and therefore for greater competitiveness and growth lies, namely with the individual member states.
unfortunately, this round of the european semester’s recommendations basically do not show any serious measures to reduce poverty, and all the environment-related measures were totally taken out of the european semester.
i would like to ask you, commissioner, whether you are still attached to the 2020 objectives and to the role of the european semester in order to achieve these objectives, and i also would like to know why you took out all the environment-related measures, which have always been there in the past.
we find that the enormous social and economic consequences, the waste of skills, higher social spending, the loss of social cohesion and growing poverty among the elderly are also linked to the consolidation of long-term unemployment.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, honourable members of parliament, the europe 2020 strategy was launched in 2010 as an eu strategy to deliver smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for europe.
it set out five ambitious targets for the eu to achieve by 2020 in the fields of employment, research and development, climate change and energy, education, and the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
the strategy announced the creation of the european semester, which has become a powerful instrument to provide guidance for the member states in their structural reforms and sustainable fiscal policies.
with this approach we are ensuring economic growth and social and environmental sustainability beyond the 2020 framework.
in this work we are taking into account the europe 2020 review and the internal and external implementation of the united nations’ sustainable development goals.
the original argument was to save energy.
as you can imagine, as a green i am naturally in favour of energy saving, which is also the aim of the commission.
instead of saving energy being a positive thing, we waste energy.
or do you have evidence of reducing energy consumption?
what are the effects of progress in energy efficiency?
the commission has examined different studies on the subject matter, but these studies present mixed results and no conclusive argument was to be gained from them regarding potential impacts on health, energy savings or other impacts, for instance on road safety or productivity levels.
neither does it have estimates of the impact of energy efficiency of electric lamps and appliances under the current summer—time arrangements in member states.
i would like to highlight just three points: for example, sustainability, digitisation - these are crucial issues for the future, also in the field of tourism.
we must also look carefully at safety standards, because there is a need to catch up, particularly in the area of fire protection and carbon monoxide in various accommodation.
moreover, in 2008 the european parliament already called for an own-initiative report an agenda for sustainable future in general and business aviation.
doubling the number of judges is a waste of money and a political decision, not a factual or even a professional one.
so we have taken great pains to remove the requirement to reduce methane emissions from agriculture from the proposal.
moreover, the eu internal market is being strengthened through a new internal market strategy, and action plans for a digital single market and energy union.
we must keep three points in particular in mind: the first is to improve the financing environment.
we have to make it possible to achieve more innovation, for example, with new energy and new materials.
we need global solutions for emissions trading - i am convinced of this - and we need a solution for competitiveness, of course.
the european aviation industry is under pressure: labour struggles, emissions trading, taxes, special levies, passenger rights, subsidised competition.
member states must finally agree to the efficiency and environmental improvements of a single european sky.
parliament must think even more carefully about whether we have something to offer to boost competitiveness in addition to unilateral taxes, duties and emissions trading.
in africa, it is our responsibility to create sustainable conditions so that people can seek a better life elsewhere and find prospects for the future in their home countries.
their families need them; their talents, their energy are needed.
we need a new approach to development, focused on job creation, decent jobs in african countries, investments we will make or support in those countries, training for young people, which is often insufficient, and the development of traditional sectors which sometimes suffer from competition, even european competition, in agriculture and fisheries, and we therefore have an absolute obligation to support what we have already committed ourselves to support, namely sustainable development.
it is clear that our commitment to sustainable development in africa must cover the medium and long term, because the problem we have to solve is not a short term problem, it is a problem that can only be solved in the longer term.
the trust fund is part of the answer, but it cannot replace the usual programming of our financial assistance, especially if we are aiming for a sustainable impact - which i believe is our common goal.
europe's aviation must protect citizens and the environment that is, take into account local people for example by banning short-haul flights, respect for flora and fauna and fair taxation of emissions.
the commission has therefore decided to propose a new approach to the problem of the environment.
i do not think that any explanation of sustainability criteria in the eu free trade agreement with vietnam will be sufficient.
that is why we refer to the roadmap we have launched in colombia and peru - by the way, with mário david and myself as the traders who negotiated this roadmap with the governments, because in fact, madam commissioner - you are absolutely right here - not only the negotiations are crucial, but the implementation is crucial and successive in the implementation, especially as regards the question of workers' rights, environmental standards, to walk together a path to achieve improvements.
it was made conditional on concrete steps being taken to improve the human rights situation, the social situation and the protection of the environment in the region.
at the same time, we have to bring all the stakeholders together, be they from the local level, from civil society or the people affected themselves, in order to create the best programmes and to really make sustainable investments.
the energy union - as the debate today shows - is a marathon.
on the other hand, we have the issue of climate change.
we are likely to have 200 million climate refugees from other continents if we do not change course, if there is no decisive agreement in paris.
that is why we should look at the energy union as a whole.
but what must happen at the end of the day - and this has also been made clear in the debate today - is that in the area of energy efficiency, for example, we need robust legislation, we need concrete measures.
this strengthens the competitiveness of european industry and also ensures that energy policy is socially oriented.
i can only remind all the member states that the european energy union is also the key to national energy problems at the end of the day.
we should also look back at history: something like the european coal and steel community, we should also start with the energy union and knit it.
the european union is a global energy community, and its ambition is to become a global energy community.
instead of small states, we need european recognition of the global reality that climate change cannot be stopped by half-heartedness.
we need an energy union that tackles greenhouse gases, that actually makes climate protection a top priority and that effectively protects consumers from energy poverty.
mr president, you have stated some objectives here, such as sustainable energy costs, security of supply, decarbonisation of the economy, reliable sources of energy and so on.
do you realise that the german government's solitary decision to abandon nuclear energy is contrary to all these objectives?
that is why nuclear energy must not be made a taboo.
we pay far more for nuclear energy than we do for large-scale solar energy.
responsible energy policy means that we care about the climate issue as much as we care about the competitiveness issue, about the impact on jobs, the impact on industry, the impact on government revenues through taxes.
we need a realistic energy policy, and that means looking at how far the member states have come and what needs to be done.
or the question of promoting renewable energy with dozens of different pots in europe.
and thirdly, it is a strength that member states have different concepts of the energy mix.
i am against our talking them into it, just because there are some dream dancers on the road who say nuclear energy is out of the question, coal is out of the question.
in the first year of the energy union, the commission has focused a lot on cooperation with member states, which is also very positive.
i would have liked a little more momentum and determination, for example in setting the energy and climate targets for 2030, for example in the national energy and climate plans that member states have to draw up or - let us say rather - should draw up.
because energy diplomacy is not a substitute for law.
some of you may wonder why we are discussing energy here, decarbonisation of the energy industry in the first place.
it's also because we have such a huge energy appetite.
when i talk about refugees, it is certainly true that we have to do a lot in the area of climate protection to avoid large flows of refugees.
but i would encourage them to go one step further in energy efficiency, to go up by 27%.
i would like to give an example of what the commission has to calculate very precisely in terms of energy efficiency.
europe is exceeding its ambitious co2 targets for 2020. europe is exceeding its ambitious 2020 renewable energy targets.
europe will also achieve its energy efficiency targets by 2020. in any case, the european union is by far the global leader in environmental and climate protection.
we have the highest energy costs in the world.
we are unsettling the industry by constantly interfering with the emissions trading system, which leads to investment elsewhere.
we're making energy legislation so complicated that many countries can't keep up with it, for example, on energy efficiency.
mr president, now that vice-president šefčovič says 2016 will be the year of events and climate commissioner cañete is impatient indeed, for him 2016 will even be the year of legislation , all i can say is: please use this to bring european environmental objectives more in line with the competitiveness of the european economy.
in concrete terms, this means giving renewable energies a chance to breathe by harmonizing their promotion and by expanding the networks and interconnectors.
provide incentives for energy efficiency instead of the compulsion to save energy, which would then also hit green energy.
the energy transition must not be a cost driver or a brake on growth.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a decision to join the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, as i consider the conservation of this species in our waters to be an important contribution of europe to biodiversity.
‒ this decision is a coherent continuation of the objectives of a sustainable policy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is therefore a very good one.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is therefore a very good one.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is therefore a very good one.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is therefore a very good one.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states.
we simply allocate more money without knowing how to solve these problems in a sustainable way.
on the other hand, it must also be clear that hate speech and calls for crimes which include, for example, the punishment of women, which is nothing but beating women, which is a violation of human rights or calls for murder and massacre or the internet sites or the threats or the salafist scenes that captivate and indoctrinate young people and undergo a real brainwashing so that they no longer feel any empathy, no longer have any sense of what their environment is ... we must protect young people from being drawn into the spell of such dangers and extremists.
mr president, we want the european steel industry to have a sustainable future, but it is obviously just not good enough for the commission to say it will try to come back with some solutions, without even mentioning the core fact that we have vast overcapacity in europe in the steel sector.
it would be counterproductive – in fact the steel industry would be biting one of the few hands that can feed it – if it were seduced by certain conservatives to go against climate policy, because only investment in infrastructure and the transformation of our economies can provide new uses for steel.
the austerity policies are much more destructive than energy prices.
we must therefore speed up the process of clarifying the reform of the emissions trading system and the design of the carbon leakage list.
the eu can help by implementing a package of measures, some of which were also addressed by the competitiveness council on 9 november: the efse, the use of the revised state aid guidelines, the rapid implementation of the energy union and the consistent application of the modernised procurement law for the procurement of sustainable steel.
in our report on the adequacy of pensions it is clear that if we want not only sustainable pension systems but also adequate pensions, that is to say, adequate cover to maintain the standard of living of pensioners at a certain level, then we must develop and extend this second pillar of pensions for a longer period.
we have - and i would like to mention this - a debate on a new sustainable neighbourhood policy.
the principle is correct: we need a change in the situation in syria, and in view of the radicalisation here in europe, we need to end social and societal exclusion in a sustainable way.
this represents an unjustified increase of 6,7% in commitments and 1,8% in payments compared to 2015. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
this represents an unjustified increase of 6,7% in commitments and 1,8% in payments compared to 2015. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
this represents an unjustified increase of 6,7% in commitments and 1,8% in payments compared to 2015. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
this represents an unjustified increase of 6,7% in commitments and 1,8% in payments compared to 2015. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
however, dehp can also present a significant potential for harm to human health and the environment.
the objection ignores the far-reaching impact on the circular economy, which is intended to promote recycling in europe, and the increased environmental damage caused by the production of newly produced pvc without any recycling.
but on the other hand we also know that, although we can say that the environment shapes people, even if all social issues are settled, evil is probably part of our human existence and we must of course also fight and pursue it by legal means.
the eu has never failed to demonstrate in a sustainable way that it is adding value to this important issue today.
this means in practice that we need to concentrate on some specific areas, which i know are of concern to members of this house: the media environment, the situation of civil society and human rights defenders, the justice system and disarmament.
the focus is on support for core reforms – which are essential – and, of course, on economic recovery and growth, governance and sector-based cooperation, for example in the fields of transport, energy and the environment.
while the banking scandal was at the centre of the demonstrations, people have been expressing their discontent more widely, demanding sustainable governance for the country and calling for corruption to be decisively tackled.
in order to find sustainable solutions to the governance crisis and certainly in order to address pressing needs, we hope that a new government will pursue, as a matter of priority, the implementation of much-needed key reforms.
this should contribute not only to regaining the trust of citizens but also to building a more resilient country and offering a democratic and stable business environment.
this will mean fulfilling certain conditions on energy tariffs, on the restructuring of the banking sector, and on the management of the national bank.
should a multilateral agreement not be reached, the resolution therefore calls for innovative thinking on certain issues, such as development for the least developed countries, the information technology agreement and the environmental goods agreement.
i think that this is a huge waste of money.
turkey is a strategic partner for europe in many areas: trade, the economy, foreign policy, energy and customs.
to go more specifically into what was agreed: firstly, re-energising the eu-turkey relationship must also mean putting new energy into the ongoing accession negotiations.
in a letter sent by president juncker to prime minister davutoğlu, the commission reiterated its commitment to complete the preparatory work for the opening, in the first quarter of 2016, of chapters 15, on energy; 23, on judiciary and fundamental rights; 24, on justice, freedom and security; 26, on education and culture; and 31, on foreign, security and defence policy.
i agree with all those who say that we should have expected a little more on the subject of food waste, and we will certainly be making amendments to that.
i would like to draw attention to the climate protection argument in particular.
when waste ends up in landfill, it produces methane, and methane is a much more potent greenhouse gas than co2.
i have to say, madam president, what strikes me as a former environment manager of wwf in germany and as a former president of industry in handling this dossier is that we are very often dealing with ideological arguments rather than scientific arguments.
i welcome the revised proposal on waste policy and the circular economy.
it is urgent to consider the entire life cycle of a product in terms of resource efficiency, consumer protection, climate protection, and economic policy interests.
whether the commission's package will be sufficient to achieve maximum value and use of all raw materials, products and waste, to promote energy savings and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions will be seen in the forthcoming discussions.
in many cases, all or most of the passenger traffic is being moved from rail to road, which imposes additional burdens on driver safety, the environment and traffic congestion.
i have to say, madam president, i welcome the report on sustainable urban mobility.
said the then very young mayor of munich, hans-jochen vogel, a social democrat, 43 years ago, in 1972. even if tomorrow all cars were electric and all energy came from renewable sources, the killing of cities would continue.
and what the sdgs are saying is that we need to start with ourselves, to reduce our consumption, reduce our waste, save energy, live more climate friendly, and we don't need a budget title to do that.
at the same time, i want to make it very clear that this was a starting point for the 2030 sustainable development goals, which we will now tackle in the next few years the coherence is being strengthened.
the adoption of the new sustainable development goals provides us with a new context for our work in the next 15 years.
our communication on development issues needs to be up to the mark and inclusive, engaging all partners and the wider public – particularly young men and women – in support of sustainable development beyond this year.
now the survival of our planet is at stake, and many developing countries are particularly affected by the effects of climate change.
everything must therefore be done, now in paris, to meet this climate challenge, because that is also the whole point of sustainable development.
this is an important focus within our development assistance to the drc, designed to incentivise environmental protection and alternatives to illegal activities within parks.
virunga produces significant renewable and sustainable products and services, including managed fisheries, hydro-electricity and agriculture, and it ensures food security to millions of people.
this support needs to be seen in the broader context of eu support to drc national conservation policies and management of forests and biodiversity.
and the global climate change alliance was allocated eur 14 million under the environment budget line for mitigation actions in the region.
finally, environment and sustainable agriculture is an area of concentration in the 11th edf, with eur 120 million allocated across the democratic republic of congo.
the question also mentions how the eu can help the drc government address armed conflicts and support sustainable development and peace—building.
finally, a word on the strategic environmental assessment of oil exploration and exploitation in the northern albertine rift.
the eu and other partners encourage the drc to wait for the results of the sustainable environment assessment (sea) before any decision on oil exploration or exploitation is made.
that includes sufficient ownership by the ministry of the environment in agreeing the terms of reference.
it also means working on state—building, because in the long term only effective governance by the drc itself will ensure the protection of the parks and their development for sustainable activities.
the greatest threat to this unique natural paradise, which the government of the drc once pledged to protect, is that this same government of the drc is awarding mining concessions to international energy companies because of the alleged oil reserves in the lake edward area.
only in this way can it be ensured that frontex receives an appropriate complaints procedure that works in a sustainable way and does not restrict frontex in its important work.
‒ i voted for the report because i support the initiative to help cities and municipalities achieve better sustainability in transport and improved network infrastructures for all of europe.
we need sustainable urban mobility with access to schools, workplaces, cultural, leisure and health facilities.
‒ i voted against the report on sustainable urban mobility in europe today because i think the paper's focus and focus is insufficient and in some cases wrong.
‒ sustainable transport is particularly important in urban transport.
they can make a decisive contribution to achieving the eu's climate goals.
‒ this report focused on promoting new sustainable transport modes in cities, with a focus on environmental aspects, a prioritisation of cyclists and pedestrians, and a better use of european funds and sustainable urban mobility plans.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on wednesday, 2 december 2015.
ladies and gentlemen, this weekend in paris, there was a huge breakthrough that many did not think possible: a global, groundbreaking, forward-looking climate agreement was agreed there!
global, because for the first time, all the countries of the world are participating in the fight against climate change.
breakthrough because now all countries recognize that we need to stay well below two degrees of global warming, and they even want to make efforts to limit the increase to 1.5 degrees celsius at most.
and it's a landmark agreement, because we want to be a climate-neutral planet in the second half of this century.
that means not emitting more greenhouse gases than the earth can handle.
to do this, we must change a lot of things - above all in energy production and energy consumption.
the luxembourg minister for the environment, mrs dieschbourg, has - as we all know - worked very closely with the commission as president-in-office of the council.
this morning, assuming your agreement, i conveyed the european parliament's thanks and congratulations in a personal conversation to the president of the climate conference, french foreign minister laurent fabius, and invited him to present the results here in parliament, if he so wished.
it is the report by mr gróbarczyk on the energy union.
the first item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by mr marek józef gróbarczyk, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the road to a european energy union (2015/2113 (ini)) (a8-0341/2015) and the report by mr peter eriksson, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the achievement of the 10% electricity interconnection target and the preparation of the european electricity grid for 2020 (2015/2108 (ini)) (a8-0330/2015).
i was in kyoto 15 years ago with the then environment minister merkel and i've followed every climate summit since, but i've rarely seen an event where there was as much self-congratulation by politicians as this one.
finally, i am afraid that europe will remain an expensive energy island and continue to export jobs, growth and wealth.
we welcome this report - i want to make this clear - in contrast to the report on the energy union, which, in my view, is a long-ago report and in no way meets the requirements of the present.
we support long-term eu climate change targets and renewable energy targets, which must also be binding at national, european and regional level.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
i ask you: how far are we really going to get in all this discussion if, in the course of the expansion of the european electricity network and at the same time in spain, subsidies are actually being abolished for solar energy and solar electricity, if in germany the new tendering system for renewable energies is just as designed so that no small players can play a part here, but only the big players can access these things, if, for example, energy cooperatives play hardly any role?
we believe that there must be room for large and small players to maintain the acceptance of renewable energy among citizens, also because such cooperatives are self-empowering and can provide decentralized electricity generation locally and among the people.
after long intensive discussions in the committee, we have succeeded in producing a really very balanced report on the energy union.
this report was produced in the run-up to the climate conference.
on saturday, cop 21 also saw the signing of the first binding global climate agreement.
the trend is also clear: away from environmentally harmful and carbon-intensive fossil fuels, towards renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the report on the energy union reflects this trend and we therefore call, in particular to the council, for binding energy and climate targets for 2030. priority to renewable energy and energy efficiency and a new electricity market design for sustainable and decentralised energy supply.
this makes the energy union and the energy transition more necessary than ever.
it can also be said that the ambitious energy transition in germany was clearly right.
there is only one thing that has been forgotten in paris and that has been overlooked in the energy union, in my view: the potential energy that can come from the sea, from the ocean.
indeed, it is predicted that wave and tidal energy, although still in its infancy, may account for more than 10% of europe's energy supply in the near future.
and you have to think about the fact that, for example, tidal energy is very predictable, so it's very predictable, that wave energy is particularly strong in winter, when the sun is shining less and we have less solar energy.
i think it is very important to take this into account and i would ask you, commissioner, and all the others, to take the ocean into account even more in the future, especially in the long-term energy planning.
in july 2015, efsa published a favourable opinion which concluded that gm maize nk603xt25 is safe for human and animal health and for the environment.
therefore, i hope you will appreciate that the commission did not exceed its implementing powers, as it endeavoured to explain to members of the environment and public health committee on 1 december 2015. consequently, the commission continued to proceed with the draft authorisation decisions for maize nk603xt25 and adopted it on 4 december 2015.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group.
that is why we have discussed this again in the committee on the environment and have set our sights accordingly.
the commitment was met with proposals that give legal capacity to the member states concerning the use of eu-authorised genetically-modified food and feed on their territory based on national reasons unrelated to risks to health and the environment.
the question is: why do we have rising public debt in europe, for five years now, still rising public debt, since we really tried to limit, limit and reduce public debt to sustainable levels?
this means that the eurozone needs both a social and ecological investment policy and signs of social compensation, for example in the form of a common unemployment insurance scheme, as proposed by many economists.
our foundation is the anchor of fiscal stability laid down in the treaties, our foundation is the stability and growth pact, which commits each individual member state and thus each euro state to a sustainable economic policy.
‒ the sustainable use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic is important to meet our environmental responsibilities.
‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the road to a european energy union, as i consider the project to be very important if we are to guarantee our citizens a secure, affordable, independent and sustainable energy supply in the long term.
i also stress that the path to a common energy policy can only work on a road which says goodbye to high-carbon energy production and nuclear energy and waits in the field of fracking until a risk to man and the environment can be really excluded.
‒ the energy union ensures that europe continues to play a leading role in international competition with other countries.
at the same time, it makes a decisive contribution to achieving the climate goals.
citizens will also benefit from a european energy market through falling electricity prices.
‒ a european energy market is an important initiative that could potentially promote the competitiveness and energy security of the european economy.
‒ a european energy market is an important initiative that could potentially promote the competitiveness and energy security of the european economy.
‒ a european energy market is an important initiative that could potentially promote the competitiveness and energy security of the european economy.
‒ the energy union is one of the main policy initiatives of the juncker commission.
energy is among the most expensive in europe and security of supply and diversification are a continuing issue due to the multiple crises in the middle east and ukraine.
it is therefore important for the eu to push ahead with the completion of the internal energy market and to develop an efficient energy supply system.
on the question of the energy mix, i am in favour of a review of fracking.
i think that the use of nuclear energy should also be left to the member states as an option.
‒ a european energy market is an important initiative that could potentially promote the competitiveness and energy security of the european economy.
‒ a european energy market is an important initiative that could potentially promote the competitiveness and energy security of the european economy.
‒ i voted today for the report on achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target preparing the european electricity grid for 2020 because i think it is politically embarrassing to talk about an energy union when our grids at our borders have a capacity of just 2%.
‒ the european electricity grid is an important part of a european energy union.
the internal energy market offers many advantages and its implementation must be pursued with consistency.
‒ in october 2014 the european council requested that all member states achieve interconnection of at least 10% of their installed electricity production capacity by 2020, meaning that 10% of electricity produced could possibly be transported to neighbouring countries, thus improving energy security and boosting the internal market.
‒ further action is needed to ensure sustainable, ecosystem-based fisheries.
technical measures in particular can lead to a significant reduction in the number of juvenile fish and thus strengthen the ecosystem in a sustainable way.
‒ this report calls for the legislative proposal of the commission (expected to be published in january or february 2016 and governing how, where and when fishermen can fish) to implement the objectives of the cfp through measures such as ensuring that accurate science influences rules and procedures and minimising the impact of fishing on the environment.
we must turn this into clear signals for investment, also in europe, in renewable energy.
the whole energy union must be pushed further.
and thirdly, if europe is not to continue to export growth, jobs and wealth as an expensive energy island, this system must be effective on a global basis.
i therefore call on the commission to promote a binding and global emissions system immediately.
mrs reid, i would like to ask you: if you say that we do not know for sure whether climate change is actually happening because the time series are far too short, would not the fact that there is a possibility that climate change is happening mean that we must deal with it carefully and responsibly and still take measures to control greenhouse gas emissions in a sensible way?
industry and managers, but also consumers, have long understood that we are moving towards low-carbon policies.
industry will help us do this, because i am convinced that they have long understood that a low-carbon industry is a great new, modern value creation.
the result and expression of despair is the increasing number of self-immolations by monks and nuns over the last three years, more than 140. we have mentioned that pollution is increasing dramatically on the tibetan plateau.
a few days ago, the paris climate conference came to an end.
as the world's largest donor, we have every reason to do so: environmental disasters, wars, refugees.
the european council will address issues fundamental to europe such as migration, the fight against terrorism, economic and monetary union, the internal market, energy union and climate policy, as well as the uk referendum.
we all welcomed the success of cop 21 on the energy union and climate change.
the european council will of course take note of this and will instruct the council and the commission to assess the results, in particular in the light of the 2030 framework for climate and energy action.
the european council will also return to the question of the energy union for a thorough discussion in march.
we had the climate summit in paris a few days ago.
ladies and gentlemen, without the courageous action of our continent, including this european parliament, on climate change, that we want to fight against climate change, paris would have been unthinkable.
we europeans have been the shining example to the world in the fight against climate change.
‒ the report advocates close cooperation with china on global challenges such as climate change and strong engagement of china in international business organisations.
‒ the report advocates close cooperation with china on global challenges such as climate change and strong engagement of china in international business organisations.
‒ the report advocates close cooperation with china on global challenges such as climate change and strong engagement of china in international business organisations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
‒ the report advocates close cooperation with china on global challenges such as climate change and strong engagement of china in international business organisations.
‒ the report advocates close cooperation with china on global challenges such as climate change and strong engagement of china in international business organisations.
‒ i voted against the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry today because i see the proposed approach as clearly lacking the concept of sustainability and calling for a different approach.
the environmental standards in europe may put domestic companies at a competitive disadvantage.
a carbon tax on imports.
a carbon tax on imports.
a carbon tax on imports.
a carbon tax on imports.
what do they think when they hear that there are demands of social dialogues and labour standards, medical policies and climate change?
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment, and on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
their uncontrolled spread is a serious threat to peace, security, human rights and sustainable development.
we agreed across the political groups that vietnam-eu relations are on the right track and should be intensified in the areas of trade and development, anti-corruption, human rights, environment and climate change, science and technology, education and culture, peace and security.
vietnam's socio-economic development strategy for 2011-2020 focuses on structural reforms, including macroeconomic stability, social justice, and environmental stability.
the epp, s&d, ecr and alde have today proposed a joint resolution here to ask the commission to clarify this matter so that biodiversity is guaranteed for agriculture and all those involved in the future.
‒ i voted today against the decision on the establishment, powers, membership and term of office of the committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the automotive industry, as i consider the establishment of such a committee to be politically motivated actionism, aimed at unnecessarily spending taxpayers' money and engaging in political bashing at the expense of individual car manufacturers.
‒ parliament has today, with the votes of the social democrats and the greens and against the votes of the epp group, decided to set up a committee of inquiry into the volkswagen emissions scandal.
diesel should not be demonized now either, because to achieve our climate goals in europe, lower-carbon diesel is also necessary in the medium term.
diesel should not be demonized now either, because to achieve our climate goals in europe, lower-carbon diesel is also necessary in the medium term.