we need a truly european energy policy instead of having 28 widely differing policies on this important issue.
we, for our part, would like to push even further when it comes to energy efficiency and renewables.
just this week apple announced a huge investment in my own country, denmark, primarily because of its renewable energy.
companies like this invest in places where waste heat from a data centre can be reused as a source of heating for homes through district heating technologies.
so, this is not just good for the environment and the energy security; it is also sound business sense and practice.
i look forward to working closely with you to fulfil all these visions in an energy union.
mr president, the energy union can and should become the main driver in transitioning europe from a fossil-fuel-powered past to a future built on sustainable, renewable energy sources and smart energy efficiency.
we also need a focus on two key areas: we need a strong strategy for shifting from gas to electricity as a main energy source for space heating in europe, and we need a frontal attack on the energy bottlenecks that can be found throughout europe, which are hampering the single market.
these areas are crucial to ensuring that renewables such as wind and solar become fully integrated into the european energy mix.
i therefore ask you, mr vice-president: how will the commission ensure that we move from gas to electricity for heating, and what new powers will be given to acer to address the problem of energy bottlenecks so that we can create a real green energy union for the citizens of europe?
i am pleased that all these elements have been addressed in this report, and i am pleased that many of the areas where citizens are expecting more proactive action from a wide range of citizens have also been clarified in relation to the need to implement the third energy liberalisation directive, otherwise there is no point in talking about an energy union and the benefits that lie within it at all, within the economic potential that is being built up in a digital single market.
so now we have to have a commission that can pack her far away - not in plastic, because it is also full of endocrine disruptors, so no more plastic there - but make sure that we now look like a good commission that actually also wants the environment and wants health and can look at the real costs to society and include these consequences when we now have to make an impact analysis, and not just the agro-industrial complex's concerns.
it also costs our environment, and it costs a lot of money.
the aim is that the eltif will contribute to financing smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in europe.
my hope is that the eltif will be used by many to help facilitate investment but, most of all, my hope is that the eltif will be much used for green and sustainable investment that will not only contribute to growth but also have a positive impact socially, environmentally and economically for europe as a whole.
we need a europe that takes the lead on investment in the green and sustainable economy to ensure that we move forward.
we need green growth to ensure that we do not just pass the environmental bill to the next generation.
is the eu to be a strong and independent voice, or are we to be under pressure because of our energy dependence?
that is why we need a green climate and energy union.
there must be a massive investment in energy efficiency, renewable energy and co2 reductions.
the energy union is the key to a europe free from russian pressure, free from dependence on fossil fuels, but the commission has yet to come up with concrete answers.
answer what it means to be the world leader in renewable energy, as juncker promised we would be.
when will we have a clear and comprehensive strategy for a strong russia, including energy, security, foreign and trade policy, and preferably in cooperation with nato, the world's strongest defence alliance, rather than creating our own european army?
we mention their illegal annexation of crimea, their aggressive behaviour, our sanctions and our energy dependence on them.
a strategy that integrates security, foreign, trade and energy policies.
we are faced with a truly massive environmental problem: 100 billion of these lightweight plastic carrier bags are used every year in the eu, and 8 billion of them end up directly in nature as waste, if not more.
we have now succeeded in achieving what is actually number one in the eu waste hierarchy, namely prevention.
rapporteur.– madam president, i very much hope that this will be our first victory over those in the commission who are against the environment.
let it not be the last victory for the environment in this commission, but the first one.
maritime transport, as has been said here today, is not part of the eu's commitment to reduce co2 emissions, and this despite the fact that shipping and its emissions have actually increased a lot.
it is extremely important, i think, that we ensure that shipping as an industry also contributes to our climate policy.
it is important that we make an effort to get shipping companies to invest in energy-efficient ships also for the sake of climate policy.
that is why it is good that we are voting today, because with the new eu system for monitoring and reporting and verifying co2 emissions from ships calling at european ports, we have a system that will be able to give us some good data.
of course, it also has an impact on co2 emissions.
we must work to create global standards for the entire shipping sector and to establish global emissions standards so that we can reduce co2 emissions.
‒ we certainly need better coordination of our policy for forests because a number of eu policies such as energy, environment and climate have an impact on the management of forests.
forests could also become a part of the energy solution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
unfortunately, the commission still exceeds the important benchmark of a maximum of 2% of the total budget for waste, fraud and fraud.
the many billions of euros which are tainted by either error, fraud or deception could have been spent on good things, such as creating jobs or the environment.
when it comes to energy, it has to just work.
i need not tell you that maintaining, running and supervising the energy infrastructure of europe is no small feat.
that is exactly why we need a strong, active and engaged acer that can supervise it all and tackle the problems faced by europe as we move towards an energy union and a true internal energy market.
the remit, of course, is the most pressing issue at hand, but before us lies a long list of obstacles to be removed before we can achieve the energy union that europe needs: real infrastructure bottlenecks between european countries prohibiting the free flow of energy across borders due to the lack of transmission capacity, as you know; and artificial energy bottlenecks, where available transmission capacity is intentionally under-utilised or blocked outright, fragmenting further the internal energy market.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, we need a european energy union in order to strengthen our energy security and achieve our climate and environmental objectives.
above all, it must ensure that we increase cross-border energy flows to deliver a genuine, functional single market for energy.
as previously mentioned, acer has been given increased responsibilities within the third energy package.
as a result of this, crucial actions related to its remit are being postponed at a time when action must take place faster than ever before in order to build a true european energy union.
in this connection, i think it is particularly worrying that acer has not been taken into account, when the commission is now simultaneously putting forward very ambitious plans for a european energy union.
better use and sharing of european energy is therefore essential if we are to make europe independent of putin's whims and if we are to make european businesses more competitive and create more sustainable growth.
but it is clear that to get there we still need a strong and also a forceful regulatory authority, and this is particularly relevant when we envisage stronger regional cooperation both in the context of the energy union and in the context of the electricity capacity objective.
there is no doubt that when we look at our energy policy in europe, it tells me that we must become independent in the long term, because this conflict cannot be solved here and now.
that is why europe must ensure that we become energy independent of russia in the future.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, the eu energy security strategy is at the very heart of our energy politics in these uncertain times.
ensuring that our supplies of energy are stable, secure and reliable is not just about convenience for consumers but also about ensuring that people are warm enough to survive in winter.
by fundamentally changing the way we supply, distribute and consume energy, we can ensure that european citizens do not have to fear such threats in the future.
we have taken a step further by also addressing the link between the need to reduce gas imports and the benefits that more efficient use of energy and renewables can bring.
reducing dependence on fossil fuels, particularly gas and oil, has created local jobs and a competitive economy, as well as a thriving export base in the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies in my own country, denmark.
i think that it is important that europe should undertake such a green transition, delivering both energy security and economic prosperity at the same time.
it is regrettable that there was no majority today for the eu's energy security strategy.
we are living in a world where the eu has become increasingly dependent on external energy sources over the last decade, not least on putin's gas and oil from the middle east.
we must take all the necessary measures to become more energy independent of russia in the future.
this applies to shale gas, nuclear power, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
i think we have to use the whole palette to become energy independent, not least from russia.
– i voted in favour of this report on the european energy security strategy, because the issue of energy security is at the very heart of our energy policy in these uncertain times.
in this report, we managed to ensure that europe’s energy security is viewed not only as a short-term question of gas supply but also as a driver for local jobs and growth within the eu, through productive investment in innovation, the development of infrastructure such as district heating systems, and the renovation and construction of highly energy-efficient buildings.
energy efficiency measures and technologies, coupled with the integration of renewables, play a crucial role in reducing dependence on fossil fuels, and, in denmark, they have created local jobs and a competitive economy, as well as a thriving export base.
i believe that others in europe will benefit from this kind of high-efficiency green energy transition, delivering both energy security and economic prosperity.
i hope, at least, that, despite the result, the many positive examples we highlighted will still be taken into account in the ongoing work of building a european energy union.
there is no doubt that waste and resource waste management is a major challenge faced by all member states in one way or another.
this is a way of improving both the environment and consumer safety.
similarly, the call for harmonisation of measurement methods and definitions across the union is a healthy element and a much-needed tool to gain an overview of waste management capacity - both at union and national level.
in denmark, waste incineration is still widespread in the production of cogeneration, and therefore the report also deals with the way in which we deal with our waste at home.
in denmark we are already implementing a waste strategy to ensure that less waste is incinerated in favour of more recycling.
the lange resolution, with its focus on labour rights, democratic values, high standards, sustainability and a clear ‘no’ to the old isds system, is crucially important.
this means that once the united states has approved a chemical, we must also accept it in the eu, even if we may be concerned about the health or environmental consequences.
i have to say, madam president, the ttip is good for growth and for more jobs in europe, and i shall not waste my time repeating what many of my colleagues in the ppe have already said today.
at that time, many of the western european countries were also concerned about workers' rights, unequal competition, high hourly wages and high energy prices.
we were not outcompeted by cheap energy prices; we were not outcompeted by cheap hourly wages.
it is now that we have the opportunity to set the standard for more than 800 million people on both sides of the atlantic, whether it be the environment, consumer protection or working conditions.
we do not believe that the market itself takes into account either workers' rights, the environment, public health, animal welfare or sustainable development.
there are also concerns on standards of production (animal welfare, meat with hormones and gmos, animal meal, chicken washed with acid and chlorine, food containing banned pesticides), on strategic and health sectors (services of water, emergency, energy, weapons, personal data, aeronautics), on the cultural sector (appellations of origin, filmmaking, the audiovisual sector, the artistic sector, theatre, opera, museums, libraries, etc.
we do not believe that the market itself takes into account either workers' rights, the environment, public health, animal welfare or sustainable development.
we do not believe that the market itself takes into account either workers' rights, the environment, public health, animal welfare or sustainable development.
‒ i am very pleased with the agreement we have approved today on the market stability reserve for the european carbon trading system, ets.
the reserve will give new life to the ets, which is very necessary if we are to provide incentives for industry to contribute to reducing our co2 emissions in europe and thus become sustainable.
the analysis shows that the earlier start date for the reserve, which we have now adopted, will make the price development of co2 allowances more stable, and this is absolutely crucial when the industry and the energy sector have to make long-term investment decisions.
i am pleased that we have, in cooperation with the member states in the council, drawn a clear line that sustainability and competitiveness for enterprises can go hand in hand.
in denmark we are already implementing a new waste strategy and therefore i also believe that there are a number of areas described in the report which can easily be tackled at national level without any intervention from the eu.
the commission itself estimates that 18 member states are already not complying with the current requirements of the waste and landfill directive.
it is a very good balance between three important considerations: we are complying with the wto decision and thus with the eu's international obligations, we are maintaining the general ban on the import and export of seal products, and not least we are at the same time supporting the inuit, that is, the indigenous peoples, in continuing to sell their sustainable leather products in the eu.
it is almost impossible to understand greenlandic culture and identity without the traditional and sustainable seal fishery.
our ban on animal products should always be based on environmental, sustainability and animal welfare considerations.
i wholeheartedly support the report by the committee on the environment on cloning.
we are seeing a massive amount of fraud, non-compliance with rules, non-compliance with controls, with a huge waste of european, including danish, tax dollars as a result.
there is no doubt that the regulation made in 2009 has been an affront to the people who treat the environment and nature much better than many others, namely the inuit far from the north.
i believe that greenland fishermen are using entirely humane and sustainable fishing methods and are killing the adult seal instantly with a rifle shot.
independent biologists have determined that even if the captors were to catch three times as many seals, the catch would still be sustainable.
these mechanisms are not sustainable, and as long as we cannot keep the agreements already reached at european level, it is completely unrealistic to hope that new agreements can be concluded and kept.
the european system has certainly spent lots of euros, millions of euros, in the name of the environment, but to what benefit?
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the nord stream ii project is vital for europe’s future energy market and for the third energy package and the energy union.
russia will be a key energy partner for the eu for decades to come.
but russia and its leading gas exporter, gazprom, have openly objected to eu efforts to liberalise energy markets and actively sought to undermine the diversification strategy.
as you know, mr arias cañete, parliament is working on goals and objectives for the future energy union in europe.
i would like to hear your assessment about how the eu might proceed with discussions on nord stream ii in the light of the european energy union’s guiding principles.
i believe that most countries merely conduct environmental impact assessments, but these do not capture the broader political implications of critical energy infrastructure projects.
our energy union must be based on solidarity, cooperation and renewable energy, and north stream represents the complete opposite of these objectives.
instead, our energy investments must be spent on renewable energy, on energy efficiency and on building a real and genuine internal european energy market, and i hope the commissioner will do everything in his power to make that happen.
air pollution is a problem in europe that must be taken seriously.
this is despite the fact that the danish agricultural sector has been extremely good at doing its part to protect the environment.
at the same time, methane reduction targets also threaten agriculture with double regulation, as such targets already exist and need to be renegotiated within the framework of climate policy.
yes, we must demand a ban on the trade and open cultivation of gmos, otherwise they will be spread throughout our environment and the food chain.
europe needs a holistic approach to achieving an energy union.
we need integrated solutions in order to get more renewables into the energy mix, cut our carbon footprint and use scarce energy supplies in the most efficient way.
doing so will cut costs for business and make europe more competitive, reduce energy bills for ordinary citizens and help us innovate to become world leaders in the energy technologies of the future.
this cannot continue if we are to deliver on a true energy union.
in the own-initiative report on the energy union, which we will hopefully adopt next part-session, we call for parliament to play an active role in the governance of the energy union.
this is a priority for me and my group: looking to find pragmatic approaches, but also approaches that maintain our ambition and determination to deliver the fundamental changes that energy union must deliver over the coming years.
i would again like to thank vice-president šefčovič for all the hard work, and clearly i hope that parliament is also up to the challenge of achieving a true energy union.
mr president, to realise the full potential of the energy union, both strong regulatory powers and ambitious targets are needed.
we need a strong, fully-staffed and powerful acer that can break down the barriers between europe’s energy silos and tackle energy bottlenecks.
acer is woefully understaffed to fulfil even its present duties, let alone the new task that will follow from the energy union.
and finally, a word on energy efficiency: as you know, this parliament has on several occasions backed a 40% energy efficiency target for 2030. as such, i find it unacceptable that the commission has apparently now decided to only model for 27-33% energy efficiency for upcoming legislative proposals.
if we are to make a real impact – if we are to truly develop an energy union – we have to be both ambitious and visionary.
mr commissioner, will you ensure that the commission heeds the call of this parliament and ensures modelling for a 40% energy efficiency target for 2030?
there are many good reasons to be ambitious when it comes to the working environment.
older workers are not involuntarily forced out of the labour market because of ill health, and national social security systems are becoming more sustainable.
and last but not least, we can help the millions of european workers who suffer from a poor working environment.
in particular, we know that precarious work all too often has negative consequences for the working environment of the employees, just as posted workers are all too often treated worse than their colleagues in the countries where they are going to work.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first let me thank the rapporteur and the other shadows for their hard work and good cooperation on this energy union file.
i would personally gladly have seen even more emphasis on the role of energy efficiency and renewables in the future european energy mix, but i find that we have ended up with a constructive text which has, in most respects, found the right balance between pragmatism and ambition.
i am also happy that we have laid the groundwork for taking a more holistic and, in my view, ambitious approach to the integration of energy systems and solutions.
this is absolutely crucial in the context of our common energy security and solidarity.
(the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– let me address the last question first because it all relates to the energy mix.
this also relates somewhat to the first question on efficiency and renewables, because it is clearly stated – and it is a prerogative of all the work we have been doing here over the past year or year and a half – that the energy mix is a sovereign decision for member states.
europe badly needs an energy union and badly needs a single market for electricity.
better interconnectors are a prerequisite for both the energy union and the internal market for electricity.
the eriksson report is a good contribution to the focus on a target of at least 10% interconnectors and it must of course be seen in close connection with the report on the energy union.
that also means that if we are to achieve these goals, we must look more at energy efficiency.
we must look more closely at creating an internal energy market with more interconnectors, and it is not just a question of getting more interconnection, it is also a question of getting quality so that it can also be used where it is available, and that there are no national interests blocking the flow of electricity from south to north, north to south, west to east and east to west.
mr president, i think that the plan for an energy union in europe is the right way to go.
i believe, of course, that the energy mix in the various countries must remain free.
i think that more energy efficiency is needed and i would also like us to be more ambitious in this area than it seems.
finally, an international climate agreement was reached.
one of our most visionary projects in this regard is our own project here in the eu: the energy union is a great vision, a strong framework for our climate and energy goals.
we know from our own energy regulatory agency, acer, that in 70% of the crossborder electricity links in europe, less than half of the available capacity is being used.
we have cables, literally, to water, land and air, and we have an increasing share of renewable energy, yet green energy too seldom reaches beyond the borders of the eu countries.
instead, it's just a little more fuel for the local coal and gas power plants, and that's not a very green sustainable future.
acer has given us a clear picture of the situation in its annual market report and the conclusion is clear: the energy is there, the capacity is there, the willingness to cooperate between the countries is fundamentally lacking.
artificial and real energy bottlenecks are a daily obstacle to the green transition and a gift to the old, polluting power plants.
it is time for the commission to tackle this problem, give acer the cross-border competences it needs and ensure that we get not just an energy union in the eu, but a climate and energy union.
(the president agreed to answer a blue card question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer.– i am not sure whether the speaker actually understood my speech, but what i was emphasising was that we need more connections and more regulation about connections in europe, because we need to have a free flow of energy between our european countries.
i can also tell the speaker that i also find nord stream 2 a very problematic project; it is something we have to fight for many reasons – geopolitical reasons, environmental reasons, and also reasons relating to the transition of our energy system in the eu.