i supported the proposal because it allows member states to decide on their own territory whether to restrict or ban genetically modified organisms, which in turn helps to better plan and implement environmental policy objectives.
i supported the proposal because these measures and control and monitoring programmes help to ensure that the mediterranean environment is kept in a state of active economic activity.
considering the current political climate it would be foolish to hand over these ships to russia.
the ongoing economic and energy crisis in ukraine cannot be overcome without active and positive involvement of russia.
agreeing on an ambitious, balanced and comprehensive ttip respecting eu social, environmental and consumer standards will give a new impetus to economic growth, but also set standards on a global scale that others could follow.
the current political climate underlines the need to develop the csdp to reach its potential.
– mr iwaszkiewicz, if you do not believe that climate change is caused by man, do you believe that it is caused by god?
full implementation of the minsk agreements as the basis for a sustainable political solution to the conflict […] must remain the focus of such talks’.
firstly, not to have a political and security environment that does not allow the meeting tomorrow to be successful.
thirdly, we should try to make sure that the environment leading to tomorrow night’s meeting can allow a result.
fourthly, and in agreement with some of the last comments that were made, we must not only bring about a ceasefire but ensure the ceasefire can be implemented and monitored and that it is sustainable.
we are in contact with lawyers and our people in the delegation are trying to attend the trial, but it is not easy to get a guarantee in that environment.
the senegalese economy also needs to benefit from better use of fisheries resources in line with the principles of sustainable fisheries and best practices in the sector.
in this regard, i also would like to reiterate the call on the commission, the member states and all relevant stakeholders in paragraph 6 to further strengthen the sustainability of the multi-stakeholder model by making actors and processes at the national, regional and international levels more inclusive, transparent and accountable.
mr president, the energy union will be built on different pillars and one of them is electricity interconnectors.
the media likes to talk about when the prices for energy rise, but they often ignore situations when the prices fall.
i hope that the commission will act promptly to deliver the energy union that we need tomorrow, but actually already needed yesterday.
– the european parliament has called for an integrated single energy market for several years.
the council’s deadline for the completion of the internal energy market was set for the end of 2014. in the new international situation the security of the eu is directly threatened.
continued existence within the eu of isolated energy islands depending on supplies from third countries will make the union vulnerable to external economic blackmail.
energy poverty needs to be addressed adequately.
the focus has to shift onto reduced and energy-efficient consumption, including investing in zero-energy buildings.
consumers must have clear and real-time information on their energy consumption and costs, and on energy-saving possibilities.
the energy union has to specifically address the micro-producers.
more and more private individuals produce their own energy, using solar panels and air-earth pumps.
the immediate task is to accommodate both eu and national regulations in a flexible way to fit their specific needs, reducing regulatory burdens and guaranteeing them a natural space in the energy market where they are often regarded by big producers as a nuisance.
the goal is to make consumers more independent from major energy grids.
underfunding and underequipping the cfsp in the hope that it will not be needed is not a sustainable solution.
eu competition policy needs to contribute to building the right environment for innovative businesses to grow.
given that cartels cause up to 3% of the european union's economy to suffer damage and that taxpayers are missing out on around €1 trillion a year due to tax fraud and tax evasion, competition policy is central to strengthening the single market as a whole and creating a fair environment.
the protection and sustainable use of marine living resources, together with the protection of the ecosystems in which they live, are important for the so-called blue growth and sustainable development.
accession negotiations must be continued on the basis of the reforms implemented and the concrete results achieved, in particular in the areas of the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption.
stimulate smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and create better and sustainable jobs.
‒ i supported the resolution on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015. the single market is the main driver for growth and job creation and is essential to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
member states and regions will have the opportunity to focus their policies and investments in 2014-2020 on sectors that will create more growth and jobs, especially for young people, such as the digital single market, energy, services and the green economy.
our relations with international and regional organisations, be it the un, the league of arab states, the african union, asean, or celac, are of paramount importance in this regard and, as recommended in your report, they take a significant amount of my energy.
in this context, i also want to mention two international negotiations that will shape the contours of the future in a decisive way and where we are engaging diplomatically, but also politically, at all levels with our partners: climate change and post-2015.
we have a special responsibility and a special role to play as europeans, and we will discuss mainly the issue of post-2015 with the development ministers tomorrow but, as you might know, i decided to work on a diplomatic action plan at the beginning of last january to make sure that we get to the climate conference in paris in december with not only good and concrete results, but also a clear leadership role for the european union.
first of all, playing my role as vice—president to the full to improve the coherence and consistency of our internal and external policies: not just the group of external commissioners that meets regularly every month – and more than once a month sometimes – but also the work we are doing together with other commissioners and vice—presidents on energy, counter—terrorism and security, and migration, just to mention a few.
the next debate we have on the agenda will allow us to discuss another important element on which we will need to be more strategic – our human rights policy, which i consider to be essential – as well as others which i will refer to very quickly but which we can come back to in the debate on this, be it energy, counterterrorism or migration.
i call on you, high representative, to develop strategic priorities for applying the external energy policy in a more coordinated way, and to achieve clarity and unity on the practical use of solidarity mechanisms.
since 2012 we have a joint work program of co-operation in various fields, from human rights to energy, and other activities are being planned.
in writing.– renewed commitment to creating an eu energy union is too crucial in the new security situation to be watered down by typical national differences.
a working energy union means developing coherent energy diplomacy, based on eu core values.
i call for the synchronisation of the baltic states’ energy systems with european continental networks to be speeded up.
these solutions are reforms – reforms to restore confidence by reinforcing the rule of law, tackling corruption and taking measures to improve the business environment.
my country, estonia, went through these painful reforms for the long-term benefits of a sustainable future.
ukraine needs to go on with its reforms, the most crucial ones being the fight against corruption, reforming the security forces and the taxation system, and making the business environment better.
in writing.– helping ukraine in rebuilding its economy and providing advice regarding structural reforms is a very important and honourable task, since these solid building blocks are a necessity for a sustainable future for ukraine.
providing macro-financial assistance to ukraine is of high importance, considering that political support in ukraine depends largely on economic sustainability and providing basic welfare to the citizens.
a balanced and growth-oriented tax system is essential for sustainable economic growth and there are not yet enough concrete measures to achieve this.
madam president, it is of course important that the eu leads the way in the fight against climate change, but we should also look at not harming our companies.
initiatives to reduce co2 emissions in maritime transport need to aim at setting the standards globally, in particular to give a level playing field to our shipping companies as they do not compete locally, or even at european level, but at the international level.
we have to protect our environment, but we also have to keep in mind that our companies compete on the global market and transport corridors can be changed for cheaper ones.
‒ i supported the bill because it aims to start the transition to biofuels, the use of which would help reduce greenhouse gases.
the primary task in drastically reducing the usage of plastic bags, especially light weight carrier bags is to protect the environment.
reducing the use of plastic bags is one of the simplest ways in which each person can contribute to a cleaner environment by making small changes in their habits.
in the wild, this plastic bag will persist for hundreds of years, placing a burden on the environment.
‒ i supported the bill because its long-term objective is to reduce co2 and other greenhouse gases from maritime transport.
the baltic sea, and especially the gulf of riga, has a very particular ecosystem.
the commissionʼs original proposal to open up the gulf to all fishing fleets would have seriously damaged and possibly even destroyed the fragile ecosystem with a consequent direct threat to the existing cod, herring and sprat stock.
it is a pleasure to note that the proposals in the resolution were supported by all the political groups in this parliament, as ensuring the good health of europeans and the sustainability of our society is a challenge we all share.
therefore, the bangladesh sustainability agreement and its progress are welcome and should be followed up to ensure that more producers join it.
with 870 million people suffering from malnutrition and hunger and, on the other hand, some 2,8 million people dying from health problems related to malnutrition, obesity and overweight, the milan world fair is a good opportunity to raise awareness in this field, to give new impetus to the debate on how to improve food production and distribution, reduce food waste and to promote existing measures and find good solutions to the problem of food insecurity, malnutrition and poor nutrition and to achieve the right balance between supply and consumption.
the resolution calls, inter alia, for the link between climate change and food production and for the promotion of small-scale farming.
it considers it important, inter alia, that the eu and its member states immediately recommit to the target of 0.7% of gross national income for official development assistance, as well as to the involvement of civil society, increased financing for the fight against climate change and much more.
this cable would enable the baltic states to reduce their dependence on russian energy, which clearly is not in russiaʼs interests, not only for financial reasons but because russia likes to wield energy as a political weapon.
this is a prime example of how the absence of an effective csdp has negative spillover effects into other important european policy areas such as the energy union.
russia is effectively sabotaging european energy security and the energy union by disrupting the creation of new energy interconnections.
the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa has already affected large areas in italy, is highly contagious to various plants and is therefore capable of causing significant damage with economic, environmental and social consequences.
but there is no specific cooperation, unfortunately, as regards energy policy.
what concrete steps do you think the european union should take in the near future to confirm its words, in order to actually coordinate and harmonize its foreign policy with turkey more closely, and also to increase the degree of interdependence in energy policy?
madam president, the vice-president for energy union has said several times that europe needs functioning energy markets and acer to oversee the markets.
i think, therefore, that in addition to adequate resources we also need the right toolbox and mandatory information-sharing so that acer actually knows what is going on in the energy markets.
this is not only about fighting protectionism in the member states, it is also about delivering an energy market that really functions and gives people lower prices.
it is also about energy security, considering the situation in russia.
energy security is a subject that would require new solutions, and of course the situation in africa and the wider middle east, to put an end to the refugee crisis and the desperate situation of people.
awareness raising is needed, but the first tasks concern the integrity of supply chains, the reduction of profits in the online environment, assisting smes, chargeback systems, better cooperation between national authorities, and screening public procurement for ipr-infringing products.
madam president, one of the main reasons we have failed to build the internal energy market so far and ensure energy security is the national protectionism still practised by many member states.
i therefore welcome the fact that this report sees the energy security issue as a european issue rather than a national one.
a functioning internal market and the free flow of energy across borders is the key to ensuring security of supply.
more work needs to be done, however, and i hope that the commission will build on the strong will shown by the member states yesterday and translate this will into action to build energy security and the energy union.
i cannot stress this enough: we need to diversify our energy sources and make sure we prioritise energy security and supply.
i am sure that the strategy on lng terminals would enhance the diversification of energy resources.
the internal energy market, including the implementation of infrastructure projects and the harmonisation of market regulations, must be a priority.
we need to agree on the free trade agreement with the united states, and we should also concentrate on cooperation with turkey and central asia on new energy rules.
it is also important that the eu, in its energy and foreign policy, speaks and acts with one voice, and that the eu is able to resist pressure from third states if energy is used as a political tool.
the decision to conclude the doha amendment, which sets a second commitment period for greenhouse gas emissions until 2020, sends a clear message that the eu is making efforts to tackle climate change.
iceland, which is part of the eu emissions trading system, is also joining the change.
the eu must call on other major polluting countries to sign a binding international agreement establishing a level playing field so that the eu is not left alone in meeting its climate commitments.
one of the eu’s biggest problems is its energy dependence on third countries.
russia has in the past literally blackmailed the eu with energy and seems set to continue this practice.
this report set out a range of policy lines and measures to increase eu independence from external energy.
i do not believe that the ep is against diversifying energy sources or against calling for an eu energy security strategy, but unfortunately with this vote the ep got trapped along rigid lines.
nevertheless, i hope that the commission will take the question of energy security very seriously and will come up with real policy solutions soon.
the european union should diversify its energy sources, create security of gas supply, establish energy links between eu countries and speak and act in unison in its policies.
the energy union and digital single market are on the track.
in europe, there is a need to achieve better integration of the different modes of transport, but each mode of transport must also become more efficient, more sustainable and more user-friendly.
i shall make a significant contribution to supporting strategic investments with high economic and social added value, promoting innovation and enhancing the eu's competitiveness, contributing to the eu's strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth.
at the same time, i am concerned that programmes such as 'horizon 2020' and the connecting europe facility, which are vital to achieving the objectives of the 'europe 2020' strategy and thus to ensuring sustainable growth in the eu, and which can add significant value, should not be cut.
the report provides an overview of the eu dairy sector and identifies a number of concerns, including how to respond more effectively and quickly to crisis situations, how to create sustainable jobs and stimulate growth in all rural areas of the eu.
the stability reserve should also ensure synergies with other climate policies, such as renewable energy and energy efficiency.
sustainable economic growth requires the efficient use of resources, the preservation of nature and social balance.
to make more sustainable use of existing resources, we need to contribute to appropriate legislative measures, economic incentives and research in this area.
the new legislation aims to avoid a repetition of such a crisis by creating a stable financial environment for sustainable economic growth.
the risks to the eu countries have been heightened by the rapid deterioration of the security environment in both our eastern and southern neighbourhood.
so i stress that this is not about animal welfare, but about the sustainable use of resources.
i hope that the commission will look at current practices and see what is the best way to ensure that, while respecting the ban, we still allow traditions to carry on in the smartest way, since legislation that allows hunting but either leads to a waste of resources or creates a grey economy is not good legislation.
proper data would not only allow decision makers on the eu and national level to exchange best practices, but to learn about the situation on the ground and provide best policy to facilitate the sustainability of family businesses.
the citizens' initiative is a sensible one, but this particular resolution is too restrictive in terms of effective and sustainable management of water resources and limits the freedom of choice of public authorities in terms of involving the private sector.
the purpose of the agreement is to enhance cooperation between the eu and cape verde and to that end to establish a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the cape verdean fishing zone.
the initiative report aims to address the challenges of eu urban policy and to outline the boundaries of future eu sustainable urban development policy.
then, when the political climate is bad enough, belarus steps up and frees some prisoners in order to get a reward from the european union.
this is an interim report to increase and coordinate efforts to achieve sustainable mobility.
given that the eu will have to address important challenges such as economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and, in particular, job creation in the near future, with particular regard to the most vulnerable groups such as young people, women and the elderly, the long-term unemployed, the disabled and migrants, it is essential to further develop social entrepreneurship and innovation.
mr president, i echo other colleagues’ welcoming of the summer energy package, and i am particularly happy to see that the commission sees the importance of empowering energy consumers, as consumers remain the driving force for competition in any market.
it is very important that consumers be informed, because if they are informed they make the right choices not only about prices, but also about protecting the environment and ensuring energy security.
i therefore believe that the redesigning of the electricity market to integrate more renewables and introduce more flexibility in the market should go hand in hand with data-driven technologies, by creating new opportunities for consumers to decide how, what and from whom they want to consume their energy.
this does not only mean allocating more funds, but making also sure that these funds actually reach local communities and are spent in a meaningful, sustainable way creating added value within the community.
the un last week adopted the ambitious sustainable development goals.
the aim of the amendment is to regulate emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants, which have not been generally regulated until now.
mr president, commissioner šefčovič’s initiative to investigate the legal aspect of nord stream ii is very welcome because it is an open use of energy tools for geopolitical gain, and i would even call it part of a notorious ‘hybrid war’.
let me repeat that, in the context of energy security, diversification is the key, and this is the policy that the commission is developing.
we will launch an energy, gas and storage strategy early next year.
therefore the alignment of this project with our european energy strategy on security of supply raises serious doubts.
i reassure you that we will continue our rigorous assessment of the nord stream ii project, in particular to ensure full compliance with internal energy market legislation.
as i said before, nord stream ii will have to comply fully with european union law, in particular the third energy package but also environmental, competition and public procurement rules.
mr president, very quickly, the presidency would like to thank the european parliament for this very useful debate and for its interest in the issue of energy security, including the nord stream gas pipeline project.
energy security is a key issue for the european union, its citizens and its economies.
energy security, as i believe the debate has shown, involves a multiplicity of economic, environmental and geopolitical aspects.
the energy union provides a framework that should enable the union to achieve these objectives.
i would like to quote, particularly in the light of what the commissioner has just said, what was included in the conclusions of the european council of 19 and 20 march 2015. i quote paragraph 2 (d) which says: 'to ensure that all agreements relating to the purchase of gas from external suppliers are fully in line with eu law, in particular by enhancing the transparency of such agreements and their compatibility with eu provisions on energy security'.
a consortium of five energy giants has agreed with gazprom to increase the volume of nord stream by 55 cubic metres by 2019. as a result, the eu will significantly increase its energy dependence on russia, whereas one of the main aims of the third energy package is to diversify energy sources.
the energy package also clearly foresees unbundling measures that in this case are clearly ignored.
this will result in weakening kiev economically and promise more energy insecurity for central european states.
instead of eliminating energy islands in the eu, the latest developments will create new ones.
i call upon the european commission to investigate closely these developments and to rigorously apply the eu third energy package, ensuring full compliance with unbundling rules and energy diversification goals.
given the current international situation and the european union's objective of increasing its energy security and reducing its energy dependence on russia, the plan to extend the nord stream gas pipeline project is contrary to these objectives.
there are many examples of russia's use of energy to influence its neighbors.
prevention of similar disasters is needed by strengthening environmental safety requirements and compliance and by complementing eu and international legislation.
in writing.– in order to create an effective european energy union we need to diversify our energy supply, increase energy efficiency, and increase the use of indigenous resources, especially the renewable ones.
however, some european energy companies are trying to undermine these goals by conspiring with kremlin-controlled gazprom to double the capacity of the north stream pipeline, thereby making europe even more dependent on russian gas.
russia has time after time demonstrated that it does not hesitate to wield energy supply as a political weapon.
it would be foolish to make our energy supply even more dependent on such an unreliable partner.
this foolish project would most certainly have negative repercussions on europe’s security of supply and on the energy union as a whole.
it is also important that the exchange of information is rapid and takes place in a secure environment.
the deception and misrepresentation of millions of consumers by volkswagen regarding vehicle emissions is most regrettable.
it is important to ensure that any exemptions in the black sea area do not lead to deterioration of the marine environment.
air quality is a field that very clearly affects both human health and our wider environment.
air pollution causes hundreds of thousands of premature deaths in the eu every year.
therefore, there is a need to act immediately to reduce air pollution.
this problem may be addressed by creating a favourable business environment, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
tourism in the eu needs to be competitive and this requires the development of various areas such as advertising, sustainable tourism, accessibility, etc.
a programme of interoperability solutions for european administrations, businesses and citizens will be created, increasingly improving the potential quality of public services and creating an environment where businesses can increase their competitiveness and citizens' satisfaction increases.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for giving us the opportunity to debate the energy issues – the new tool in the kit, commissioner, as you said.
vice-president, you rightly point out that the electricity grids and gas pipelines are the backbone of the integrated energy markets, so what is absolutely key in this process is to identify the right projects to be cofinanced and supported from the european union level.
so we should say ‘no’ to all these projects that further protect national energy sovereignty, and ‘yes’ to projects that will improve energy security not only for the countries concerned, but also their neighbouring countries.
the baltic states could soon be connected to the nordic electricity market through the connections to sweden and poland that should be completed by december 2015. a true single energy market would also lower the price for the european citizens.
energy security still remains a great concern.
as such it will undermine eu energy security, principles of fair competition and european solidarity.
as meps, we are highly concerned about such back-door energy deals and about the ease with which multinational companies can bypass eu rules on competition and unbundling.
in particular, big international energy deals have to be fully transparent and provide for diversity of energy supplies, not increasing dependency on russian gas.
this project, in my opinion, is a total waste of taxpayers’ money, and the money should be used elsewhere.
finally, taking into account the present and looming crises – refugees and migrants, including climate migrants – and the fight against terrorism, the eu security and defence policy area is still under-financed.
in view of the hazardous nature of dehp and its adverse effects on the environment and human health, it is necessary to regulate the release of this chemical.
with almost half of urban transport being carried out by car, congestion is a daily occurrence that in turn pollutes the environment, restricts movement and makes people nervous, and therefore proposals are made to shift urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport to protect the climate, health and the environment.
europe is stronger both externally and internally by having a single energy market.
it is important to diversify energy sources in the eu and to build interconnections.
it is necessary to ensure that energy dependence is not used as a tool for political pressure.
‒ i voted in favour of the energy union report, although some of the provisions raised questions.
achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target and improving the functioning of the internal electricity market is an important objective for a stable, secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive energy system in the eu and electricity interconnection must be a political priority.
the aim is to ensure maximum sustainable yield and environmental protection.
china is active on a range of global issues of major importance to europe, such as climate change, the recent paris agreement on climate change and its implementation, as well as nuclear non-proliferation, counter-terrorism, urbanisation and energy security.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
china has an important role to play in the promotion of the world economy and in the fields of energy and climate, but also in foreign and security policy.
the humanitarian aid environment has changed significantly, in particular in terms of the number, scale and duration of humanitarian emergencies, arising from both military conflicts and natural disasters, and exacerbated by global trends such as climate change.
africa's oldest national park is a threatened world heritage site, where mass poaching and environmental abuse are common.