it should have been incorporated into environmental legislation, as gm crops and products continue to pose potential risks to the environment and public health.
the internal energy market is a good priority.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the message of the lima climate summit was clear to us.
we need a climate agreement.
peru, the host of the climate summit, is the fourth most affected country in the world.
whose standard of living is one of the causes of climate change?
so, responding to climate change is also about solidarity and humanity.
we in europe must revise our own objectives to make them more ambitious, to move towards a fully renewable energy system.
climate finance must be steadily increased and the economic crisis cannot be an obstacle to this.
äänestys toimitetaan keskiviikkona 11. helmikuuta 2015. kirjalliset lausumat (työjärjestyksen 162 artikla)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the indication of the country of origin of meat used as an ingredient in processed foods (o-000091/2014 - b8-0101/2015) (o-000091/2014 - b8-0101/2015) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, giovanni la vian (2014/2875) (rsp)).
for the alde group mr president, the point at issue is that the environment committee of this parliament proposes that the commission should examine the effects of the use of the word 'origin' in the labelling of meat.
the commission communication on the energy union is timely and addresses a very important issue.
the situation is not changed by the fact that at present the price of energy is low and many incentives for renewable energy production are not working well.
the energy union is an opportunity to get more out of the very different energy production systems of the member states, to correct the problems of the emissions trading system, to curb inefficiencies and increase energy efficiency, to reduce europeans' dependence on imported energy and, in general, to coordinate eu energy and climate policy in a coherent way.
energy production and use are very sensitive issues at national level and a declaration alone cannot change the attitude of the member states.
for example, the measures needed to reduce energy dependence on imports vary widely from one member state to another.
in some member states, renewable energy production is already widely available and well regulated.
others will be tied to imported energy for a long time.
the success of the energy union in the coming years will be measured by the quantity and quality of concrete actions taken.
if there is no trust, or if it cannot be built, the whole energy union will vanish into thin air.
it is good to bear in mind that the fact that this proposal is making europe's heavy vehicles more energy efficient, safer and, above all, also less polluting, is easily lost in the many technical details.
large and modern units are the best way to ensure energy and cost efficiency in transport.
it's important for business and the environment.
so it should be clear to everyone that we need to give european enterprises the best possible environment for employing people.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the murder of boris nemtsov has once again brought to our attention the climate of hatred and intolerance which has been widening in russia, but which is also increasingly present in europe.
it is our common responsibility to seek a climate of constructive dialogue, especially when we are living in the midst of conflict.
it is a great pity that these relations are now so bad, because the efforts of europe, russia and the entire international community are needed to combat terrorism, to curb climate change, and also arctic cooperation already requires greater cooperation than hitherto.
the loan is conditional on, inter alia, fiscal reforms, anti-corruption measures, changes in tax administration, reforms in the energy and financial sectors and improvement of the business environment.
we are talking about renewable resources at a time when europe is concerned about natural resources and what we are doing beyond fossil fuels and what we are doing in the face of climate change.
forests, renewable energy and the bioeconomy are the answer.
i hope for a coherent approach where the commission sees the potential through research and development in the bioeconomy, and also in all that is already being done: three million jobs, sustainable construction potential and know-how for wood processing.
we set out to reduce greenhouse gases and to open up europe for technological progress.
after all the votes in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) we have to ask ourselves whether we actually achieved what we set out to achieve.
we had set higher goals to be able to reduce greenhouse gases, to get europe into a position where we could meet our goals for 2020, 2030 and even for 2050. i am very worried – and i think my fellow shadows are also worried in the same way – about our ability to reach these goals.
i hope that the focus will be on reducing co2 emissions from transport.
this can be done without competition from food production, because we can develop good raw materials from, for example, northern forests and waste and food sources.
the european parliament itself noted in its resolution that the eu should seek to exploit biofuels made from waste, which can achieve high emission reductions.
we did not fix everything that should be fixed on the earth, and i think commissioner arias cañete will be back with this issue in, let us say, three years’ time, not just because of the energy union, but because of the fact that the technological progress we see out there in reality is for the moment very fast and we do not know where it is going to end and what possibilities we will have after two or three years.
the directive is aimed at 2020 targets, even though we already have fresh climate and energy targets for 2030, which should have been linked more strongly to renewable transport fuels.
technology is advancing rapidly; today's waste may be tomorrow's valuable raw material.
transport accounts for 30% of carbon dioxide emissions in europe and the fastest way to cut emissions is to replace fossil fuels with renewable energy.
therefore, the work on energy efficiency and low-emission transport must continue at the global level as well.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, shipping, like any other industry, should be regulated on environmental standards.
therefore, i would like to take the opportunity to call on the commission and the member states to step up their activity in the imo, and not just concerning emissions mrv.
mr president, the requirements for reducing the environmental impact of shipping have been considerably tightened recently, in particular by the entry into force of the waste directive, placing the so-called seca area in the baltic sea here in europe under a special magnifying glass and challenging the shipping industry to renew its equipment and technologies at a rapid pace.
the safety of shipping in winter conditions is always dependent on the ice-resistance of ships, which in practice means more steel, while reducing the energy efficiency of ships.
it is also important that the specific characteristics of the different regions be taken into account in the further work on co2 emissions, so that safety and environmental requirements do not have to be set against each other.
sustainable forest management ensures that environmental, social and economic viewpoints are all well presented.
for example, biodiversity protection practices and experiences in different member states should be circulated.
forests have a central role in providing jobs for remote areas, ensuring the preservation of biodiversity and having a positive impact on managing climate change.
managed wisely, the forest sector is a sustainable industry, providing valuable jobs at the core of the bio-economy.
i strongly opposed, however, amendment 3 by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), as it needs clarification about the carbon neutrality of biomass.
biomass is carbon neutral.
the international panel for climate change under the united nations gives a 0.0 co2-emissions factor for biomass.
losing carbon neutrality would shake the fundamentals of the euʼs renewable energy policy.
it would endanger the achievement of eu renewable energy targets and bring uncertainty to the industry covered by the eu emission trading scheme.
moreover, the eu must not have double emissions counting for biomass.
in the international climate change framework the emissions are reported in the agriculture, forestry and other land-use (afolu) sector (previously the lulucf sector).
instead, we should examine mitigation based on the significantly longer natural carbon cycle and base our policies on a natural timeframe.
forests are important carbon sinks and their role in combating climate change is significant.
sustainable forest management also allows for the economic exploitation of forests, even more so than at present.
sustainably managed forests are a source of renewable energy, a generator of growth and jobs, and a driver of rural development.
we know the detrimental consequences of these kinds of tactics from the climate negotiations, and that is why it has been extremely important that the european union has been at the forefront in climate policy internationally.
in addis ababa, the future of development finance is being decided, and then later this year, the un will agree on new global goals for sustainable development.
i am thinking here, for example, of climate change, and it is very important in this context that the rapporteur has finally put forward a proposal for amendment in which he stresses the utmost importance of helping communities to become more resilient to all the natural disasters of this kind, which are also caused by climate change.
contrary to what has been said here, such a mandatory system covering the entire production chain would in fact make it easier for smaller companies to demonstrate that their products meet these ethical sustainability standards, since the data for the entire chain would then be readily available.
have you not noticed that this is precisely what has led to the great waste and weakness that the european union has created in the field of security, and to the fact that we have a lot of waste in the purchase of weapons, in the armed forces we use, and so on.
the common interests and challenges are the fight against climate change, terrorism, crossborder cooperation and, for example, the policy of the northern dimension.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the two-degree limit has long been the climate scientists' view of how our planet can withstand a large temperature increase without serious and irreversible environmental changes.
the eu, the us and china, among others, have already announced their emission reduction targets for the paris meeting, but two thirds of the world's carbon dioxide emissions are still outside the reduction commitments.
the eu's pioneering role in tackling climate change is threatened to become an illusion.
on monday, the energy ministers of the member states finally did not interfere in any way with state aid for the production and use of fossil fuels.
in the absence of a strong political message, the potential that the renewable energy sector could bring to life has been missed in the eu.
the investment in renewable energy in china is also reflected in the fact that the country has announced that it will reach its climate targets ahead of schedule.
we learned that we have a considerable amount of member states afraid of being left behind and therefore opposing targets and paths towards producing a more energy-efficient europe.
if we are seriously going to tackle the question of energy security, we need goals and targets as soon as possible.
part of the solution of the energy security issue is actually linked to our ability and willingness to get the circular economy up and running.
if you look at the means of energy production for the moment, we see that we have a huge challenge – we have a mountain to climb.
mr president, europe imports energy every day for over a billion euros, which shows how dependent we are on imported energy.
in addition, the stress tests showed how dependent many member states are on russian gas in particular and that they are in a very vulnerable position because we know that russia has taken its foreign policy options in energy policy.
europe needs reliable partners, and that is why it is important that we work towards the negotiated ttip agreement with the usa, in which they will have their own share of energy.
at the same time as we open up new energy routes to europe, it is important to strengthen our own internal colonization possibilities, so that we can get rid of the energy islands, as my colleague mr saudargas points out in his excellent report.
the commission's energy union objectives, namely to increase energy self-sufficiency and energy efficiency, also offer many opportunities.
but at the same time as we increase the share of renewable energy in europe, it is important to ensure that it can be done as market-oriented as possible.
energy is what drives our ark, but it's also what drives our entire society.
but we import more than half of the energy we use, at over 400 billion euros a year.
we need solutions for security, for trade, for jobs, for climate change.
almost half of the energy consumed is spent on heating and cooling.
the problem is that we in the eu do not have a target for renewable fuels for transport in just four and a half years.
heating is more than gas: it is biomass, waste, solar heat and geothermal heat.
renewable waste now makes up 25 percent of the total, compared with only 3 percent a couple of decades ago.
cleaner technologies, storage and smart grid technologies will help energy efficiency and thus also sustainability and security.
‒ the report rightly highlighted important points from the point of view of energy security, such as the need to diversify gas supply.
in preparing for the energy union, the baltic sea region must be kept in mind.
this enormous, hidden business opportunity can only be created by new business ecosystems and business models, like the lease economy and businesses working together in the zero—waste society, where the ends of some processes are resources for someone else.
we need a review of existing legislation, including financial legislation, because our linear history has ensured that our legislation fails to incorporate the value of ecosystem services.
we need a product policy designing out of waste, and so we need an ambitious broadening of the scope and revision of the ecodesign directive.
we need a renewal of the base directive, and we need a special focus on certain areas, such as sustainable buildings, since buildings represent 40% of our energy consumption.
as this is a very slow—moving sector, we need to start by taking the decision now to make our building sector sustainable within 30 years.
thirdly, the production of and demand for certain waste streams do not always match a hierarchy.
what are waste residues and end products in essence?
we know that the report that madam pietikäinen has written is going to be waste by the end of the week, as will this speech.
mr president, i very much welcome the report by mr pietikis on the circular economy, which is not really about downshifting or light recycling, but the advent of the circular economy is a real breakthrough, which will change both the way we consume and produce, improve productivity, reduce the environmental burden considerably, save resources, whether we are talking about money, food or natural resources.
the circular economy aims not only at the efficient use of natural resources but also at creative solutions for the recovery of food waste and surplus food.
our people, our economy, our environment, they're not waiting.
mr president, the circular economy report by parliament is a step towards a more sustainable way of producing and consuming goods.
now we have reached this corrective situation with regard to the emissions trading system.
i hope that the debate does not end here, on these questions, but that we find solutions so that we can meet the climate targets... (the speaker interrupts the speaker)
the following debate is scheduled: question for oral answer to the council, by claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs, on the european agenda on security (o-000064/2015 b8-0566/2015); and question for oral answer to the commission, by claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs, on the european agenda on security (o-000065/2015 b8-0567/2015).
written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by esther herranz garcía, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency (com(2013)0943 – c7—0045/2014 – 2013/0451(nle)) (a8—0176/2015).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
i would also personally prefer a straightforward carbon tax, if we were to build a completely new system from scratch.
however, the ets has been the main instrument of european climate policy for ten years, and it is widely accepted within the industry.
the eu emissions trading system is the largest ets programme in the world, and, although it has structural shortcomings, we have been reaching our targets of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions so far.
the modifications, as adopted in the trilogue with the key contribution of the ec, could help the ets implementation to prevent increasing co2 emissions and the misuse of allowances by member states.
it is of particular importance for the achievement of the climate objectives.
however, it should be noted that requiring the use of cascades in a circular economy would create many problems, as waste and litter are difficult to define.
today's waste can be tomorrow's raw material.
it is the uncertainty of the regulatory environment that is currently significantly slowing down investment in europe.
as i said at the beginning, tobacco, alcohol and energy products are the areas where fraud is most common.
failure to take care of the products of permitted and necessary conservation hunting is not reasonable and a waste of natural resources.
it is sad that, even in the 2010s, it is easier for us to build a road and a tunnel through the giant mountains than to create together a regulatory environment that enables interoperable user-friendly services.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an acute crisis, but it is easy to make the crisis permanent, because climate refugees are just coming.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– madam president, we found this act by volkswagen to be totally shameful and unacceptable, and a serious breach, against consumers and also against european environmental legislation.
as 11 million cars and 11 million car owners are subject to fraud, the european people will be heavily affected as citizens, because of the very harmful health effects and excessive air pollution, and also as consumers.
the falsified results in emissions tests have been reported to be up to 40 times the legal maximum.
what do you think, too, about the cop-21 climate conference in paris: how will it be affected and how will the commission advance the emission-test requirements to improve market surveillance in europe?
mr president, the volkswagen scandal has brought air quality and environmental issues into the debate in a completely new way.
environmental legislation is designed to protect people.
the commission has not paid any attention to international environmental agreements, nor to compliance with eu legislation.
mr president, the volkswagen emissions scam is a real embarrassment to the whole european car industry.
it is clear that things must be investigated, that abuses must be tackled and that emissions measurements must be developed in the direction of real driving emissions testing.
we in europe have wanted to cut co2 emissions specifically and we know that diesel engines are very good at it.
we know that if we want to see more industrial investment in europe, investors want longterm sustainability and legal certainty for their operations.
we already have a lot of alternative fuels in europe, sustainable biofuels, hydrogen engines and we can electrify transport.
the volkswagen emissions fraud is a stark indication of the failure of eu market surveillance.
it is estimated that air pollution causes 400 000 premature deaths in the european union.
one of the most important sources of emissions is transport.
for this reason, emission limits for nitrogen oxides (no), particulate matter (pn/pm), carbon monoxide (co) and hydrocarbons (ch) have been defined for passenger cars, vans and lorries through euro standards.
in addition, a maximum emission limit for greenhouse gas carbon dioxide has been set from 2012. it has long been known that there are large differences between official laboratory measurements and actual traffic measurements.
for example, the emissions of nitrogen oxides from diesel cars in traffic have been seven times higher than official laboratory measurements.
in this case we have a fairly balanced compromise which ensures that installations in all member states make equal efforts to combat air pollution.
on the other hand, i welcome the final compromise, which will clean up the air in the region and allow longer transition periods for those who use renewable biofuels or are district heating installations.
the regulation of emissions from small and medium-sized combustion plants covers a power category that has been missing until now.
it is also good that during the parliamentary debate the commission's proposal was amended to take better account of the eu's objectives to encourage the use of renewable energy, especially in areas where air quality is already good and meets who recommendations.
air quality shall be considered as a whole, in addition to individual point source emissions.
all eu governments have a legal obligation to improve the state of the environment and to promote the health of their citizens.
what that means is understanding and transparency – for example, through information leaflets for whatever type of investors in relation to stranded assets such as the ‘carbon bubble’.
the vote will be held on thursday 8 october 2015. written declarations (rule 162)
the following debate is scheduled: giovanni la vian, györgy hölvény, tibor szanyi, nikolay barekov, gerben-jan gerbrandyn, merja kyllösen, benedek jávor and piernicola pedicin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the oral question to the council on the lessons learned from the red sea disaster five years after the disaster in hungary (o-000096/2015 - b8-0757/2015); and giovanni la vian, györgy hölvény, tibor szanyi, nikolay barekov, gerben-jan gerbrandyn, merja kyllösen, benedek jávor and piernicola pedicin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the oral question to the commission on the lessons learned from the red sea disaster five years after the disaster in hungary (o-000097/2015 - b8-0801/2015);
for the gue/ngl group mr president, five years have passed since the tragic event and there is still much to be done in the management of environmental issues in mines throughout europe.
even in our understanding of the current state of the mine waste ponds, there are complete gaps.
it is therefore appropriate to ask both the council and the commission what has been done and what is planned in the coming years, for example, to improve the safe treatment of waste water from mines.
preventing accidents is the best way to take care of people and the environment and to ensure that accidents like the one in hungary never happen again.
when we look at the statistics of global warming and the temperature in the world today, we see that during the last 10 years we have had a steadily rising tendency.
madam president, i would like to call on the eu to be very strict in endorsing a human-rights-based approach to climate policies.
this is an important aspect of climate policy as we need to make sure that climate mitigation activities, including climate financing, do not cause environmental and social harm to people, including the impact on indigenous peoples and their environment and livelihoods.
many multilateral development banks do have such safeguards on environmental and social impact, but unfortunately the clean development mechanism (cdm) does not have any.
the un special rapporteur on human rights and the environment endorsed this letter just a couple of days ago.
‒ action is needed to stop climate change.
the consequences of climate change are both harmful and costly.
europe cannot respond to climate change on its own.
our share of global greenhouse gas emissions is less than 10%.
otherwise, the good intentions of europe will be turned upside down and climate change will accelerate.
this is what happens if the carbon leakage from europe increases as a result of overly stringent commitments.
so far, only the european union has introduced comprehensive emissions trading.
the future revision will have to strike a balance between the free allocation of carbon leakage areas and the actual reductions in emissions.
there are positive signs of the emergence of an international climate agreement.
china has said it will introduce emissions trading from 2017 and net greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. the united states' carbon emissions are reduced by the use of liquefied natural gas.
europe has done a lot to reduce emissions.
in the future, special attention will have to be paid to the transport sector, the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases.
the international civil aviation organisation (icao) and the international maritime organisation (imo) need to reach international agreements to achieve emissions reductions, and the commission is working on a new approach to reducing emissions from ships.
this is essential if we are to make a sustainable transition to this new situation.
the volkswagen emissions scam has revealed serious problems both within the automotive industry and in the reliability of the regulatory authorities.
it is now necessary to take strong action to restore consumer confidence and to ensure that transport policy decisions are based on a true picture of the environmental impact of motoring.
the emissions fraud was revealed as a volkswagen case in the american market, but over time it has spread to a pan-european zone that takes away the credibility of the entire automotive industry and the authorities that control it.
under the vote, the financial times wrote that the eu commission had been tipped off to systematic emissions cheating as early as 2013, but had ignored it completely.
the report by transport & environment also states that the phenomenon of false test results is much wider than nitrogen emission tests.
the main new initiatives presented in the commission's work programme include a circular economy package aimed at making more efficient use of natural resources and thus reducing the amount of waste generated.
air quality in europe has not reached its targets, despite the long-known detrimental effects of poor air quality on health and the environment.
is it not time, ladies and gentlemen, to make concrete decisions on reducing emissions?
the health of the people of europe and our environment need our help now.
but we still have big problems: air quality in many cities is badly polluted and people suffer from particulate emissions.
we can do a lot in the fields of energy, transport, agriculture and urban planning.
this is the responsibility of both cities and member states, but we know that european and international action is also needed, because air pollution knows no borders.
there is a risk of overlapping regulation, of bureaucracy, because methane is also treated as a greenhouse gas.
mercury is certainly a problem for air pollution and air quality, but it is not good legislation to add mercury to this proposal without a proper impact assessment.
air pollution crosses national borders and causes global problems.
the proposal for a directive i am opposed to concerns the regulation of methane emissions.
finnish agricultural production, based on relatively small numbers of animals, faces major challenges if methane emissions are regulated strictly and quickly.
agriculture must play its part in reducing emissions, but in regulating the sector we must face the facts: there is no single magic bullet.
there are many sources of emissions, and biological processes inevitably release greenhouse gases.
for me personally, the most important achievements in this report are the recommendations on the substantial strengthening of the economic, social, environmental and developmental dimensions of the un system.
according to the report, this must be done in the first instance by means of structural and functional reform of the economic and social council, but we also call on the eu institutions and member states to consider the possibility of strengthening their role in the ecosoc by developing it into a sustainable development council.
i wanted to give the sustainable development council the same kind of status as the security council in dealing with all areas of global cooperation other than security.
this basic idea is not a new one: it was originally launched in the rio conference in 1992. it was then watered down by establishing only the commission on sustainable development under the ecosoc.
i have in mind a council with a wider mandate covering all economic, social, environmental and human development in the world.
one of the objectives of the energy union is to move away from a fossil fuel-driven economy.
the commission is currently preparing a legislative package on renewable and sustainable energy, bioenergy.
mr president, the objectives of the energy union - increasing self-sufficiency, reducing energy dependence, reducing dependence on imported energy, cutting emissions, a functioning market - are all extremely important objectives.
it accounts for one third of all energy consumption in europe, and we know that transport is very dependent on oil: 94% of transport still uses oil.
the existence of a functioning energy market in europe is also of course in the interests of consumers.
we will build links so that europe does not become an energy island, and this will strengthen the internal energy market, improve competition, increase transparency and also increase consumer choice in energy.
when this proved unprofitable after the energy crisis, they started stealing tax revenues from other member countries.
i wonder why the commission does not set binding targets for reducing food waste, but leaves it to the member states in the proposal for a waste directive.
the mere statement that food waste is halved has a direct effect on the behavior of very few people.
it is important for the economy, the environment and people in general that urban transport runs smoothly and is as efficient as possible.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, urban transport accounts for a quarter of transport's co2 emissions and up to 70% of other transport emissions.
the aim is to give car pleasure, the main source of urban traffic emissions and the cause of accidents, noise and congestion, a sacred place on the altar of european urban life, to which the comforts, habitability and health and safety of the inhabitants of cities are sacrificed.
mr president, as the european year for development is now drawing to a close, and ambitious negotiation for a climate agreement is still going on, i would like to draw attention to the fact that we need to invest more in adaptation to climate change in the poorest countries of the world, such as the sahel countries of africa.
these countries are the most vulnerable, and their populations will be totally unprotected as climate change progresses.
i believe that many of the market forces are active on the side of mitigation of climate change, but there is much less attention to adaptation.
i believe that the netherlands is in a position to help the really poor countries of the world to adapt to climate change because it also masters certain technology.
what is expected of us in the climate change negotiations now is that the rich countries make available the technical innovations that they have developed.
notably, i would say, know—how in controlling floods, but also investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency, are things that the netherlands can very well transmit to the poorest countries.
this figure is projected to double as a result of sustainable fisheries created by the virunga alliance, the park’s clean energy initiative.
we call on the commission and the member states to further address the root causes of armed conflicts and corruption and to support sustainable development and peace—building strategies in the park and the surrounding region.
mr president, first of all, congratulations and thanks to all the negotiators of the european union, commissioner cañete and the host country france for the climate agreement reached in paris this weekend.
thirty per cent of europe's energy is spent on transport, which is highly dependent on fossil fuels.
the committee considers it important to promote energy efficiency and renewable energy sources in a very technology-neutral way throughout europe the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environmental performance of shipping.
we know that renewable fuels are already available in aviation and the committee on transport is encouraging europe to open up the market to renewable fuels in aviation in europe.
but the energy union is a vast legislative project and there is a risk that we will sometimes forget some of the decisions we have taken in the past.
‒ the energy union is an exceptionally ambitious project.
there are understandable passions in energy policy.
energy production is at the heart of the fight against climate change.
we should be open to new forms of energy production and spend enough money on developing more environmentally friendly technologies.
every production method has an impact on the environment.
at the same time, thinking must be based on increasing energy efficiency and reducing energy consumption.
energy efficiency in industry, housing and transport must be continuously improved.
the energy production system shall be so decentralised and versatile that malfunctions or problems with the availability of a single fuel do not jeopardise the system's functioning.
each country should secure its own energy supply while being part of the wider european whole.
the energy union will not be built in a day, a month, a year, hardly even a decade.
it should be seen as part of a process whereby eu countries are building new and more sustainable energy infrastructure in small steps, every day.
‒ the parliament's opinion on the energy union takes the link between climate change and the action needed in the energy sector very well.
parliament's position also rightly advocates the development and expansion of district heating networks and the use of various clean (renewable) technologies in heating.
parliament called for a shift from coal and gas to biomass with a higher security of supply and noted that biomass based on sustainable forest management could contribute to the achievement of the 2030 climate and energy targets.
it must again take into account the contribution of biomass energy to the decoupling from fossil fuels, alongside the potential for energy savings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a historic climate agreement was reached in paris, and thanks to all those who have worked on this important issue - the agreement.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
it must be remembered that warming of more than two degrees will make many parts of the world uninhabitable, and if this is allowed to happen, we have seen only a small flow of refugees for the one million people coming to europe at the moment, because climate refugees are talking about hundreds of millions of people.
to prevent climate change and save the planet, every action in our own lives is valuable.
mr president, the president of the european council should facilitate bringing together different member states’ positions in order to find sustainable and humane solutions.