from spring 2015, member states will be able to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territories on environmental, agricultural and socioeconomic grounds.
we cannot cause a disruption of our food and environment.
the text also provides for the fight against illegal fishing, which is a necessary measure for the preservation of our ecosystem.
this will eventually facilitate the monitoring of tuna catches and fisheries in this area, an activity with a high environmental stake.
the preservation of natural and animal resources is a prerequisite for sustainable development in the field of local economic activities.
it is only then that this agreement could really be part of a sustainable fisheries policy.
i supported this report because i believe that the agreement in question benefits both parties by allowing european vessels to fish certain surplus resources in a regulated environment, while providing sectoral financial support for the development of sustainable fisheries in são toméan waters.
as this agreement allows both sustainable resource management and the extension of a development agreement in consultation with the republic, i am voting in favour.
these are to be devoted in particular to port infrastructure and to the control and marketing of products, in the framework of the sustainable tuna fisheries partnership agreement, which entered into force on 10 may 2003 between the european union and the republic of seychelles.
a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfpa) governs relations between the european union and the republic of seychelles in the field of fisheries.
this agreement allows sustainable fishing because it respects the rules on the good management and conservation of tuna resources as well as the rules of the common fisheries policy.
the european parliament is preparing an own-initiative report on the implementation of the white paper on transport policy, published by the european commission in 2011. this own-initiative report aims to assess the extent to which the actions announced in 2011 have been implemented and to identify the next steps to be taken, in particular with regard to sustainable mobility.
i supported the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the own-initiative report presented in the parliament's committee on transport entitled 'implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport policy: the point and the way forward for sustainable mobility'.
i voted in favour of this text, which provides for the consultation of the european economic and social committee (eesc) on the own-initiative report entitled 'implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: review and way forward for sustainable mobility'.
this is a major and cross-cutting issue which combines employment issues with environmental requirements.
as requested since 2008, the commission will have to update the legislation on environmental risk assessment of gmos within 2 years.
the health, environmental and food requirements are also not sufficient in the authorisation procedures and monitoring of gmo crops.
the commission will have to update the legislation on environmental risk assessment of gmos within two years.
the health, environmental and food requirements are also not sufficient in the authorisation procedures and in the monitoring of gmo crops.
the logic of authorization is further reinforced by the fact that the very basis of future national bans is fragile, since the articles concerned the internal market, while parliament asked that the legal basis of the text be the environment.
the gmos imposed on us by the agrochemical multinationals and the european union are unacceptable and dangerous: increased pesticides, enslavement of farmers, ecological disasters on fauna and flora.
i also welcome the obligation to provide for an update of the directive on environmental risk assessment of gmos.
the directive will now allow member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory on environmental, agricultural and socioeconomic grounds.
moreover, the legal basis for this report is not article 192 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which is devoted to the environment, but article 114 on the internal market.
as a result, member states will not be able to invoke the precautionary principle or go beyond the minimum environmental requirements.
i therefore voted against this report, in line with the demands of many european citizens who oppose gmos because of the risks they pose to their health, to biodiversity, to the diversity of cropping methods and to conventional and organic farming.
this proposal for a resolution amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 december 2011 on certain provisions relating to fishing in the gfcm agreement area provides for technical measures (sustainable exploitation of red coral, reduction of seabird bycatch, etc.)
it is becoming urgent to find solutions that must not only protect the marine environment but also fishermen, who can no longer tolerate temporary stops to fishing or the maintenance of quotas that are too low.
this proposal for a resolution amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 13 december 2011 on certain provisions relating to fishing in the gfcm agreement area provides for technical measures (sustainable exploitation of red coral, reduction of seabird bycatch, etc.
it is becoming urgent to find solutions that must not only protect the marine environment but also fishermen, who can no longer tolerate temporary stops to fishing or keeping quotas too low.
its main objectives are to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean, the black sea and the intermediate waters.
the european regulation on certain provisions for fishing in the gfcm agreement area (com2014/0457) provides for technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm agreement area.
these measures will improve the conservation of the balance of the seabed and biodiversity.
the report proposes to transpose into union law a number of measures adopted by the gfcm, including measures on the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, and the conservation of certain aquatic species.
i voted in favour of this text, which transposes into eu law a number of measures (sustainable exploitation of red coral, reduction of seabird bycatch, conservation of monk seals, etc.)
i voted in favour of this report which provides for technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources in the mediterranean while reducing the incidental capture of seabirds, sea turtles or cetaceans.
although it could have been even more ambitious in terms of environmental protection, the report contains measures which complement and add to those of other eu directives, such as the habitats directive.
the commission brings together 23 countries bordering the mediterranean and ensures the sustainable, social, economic and environmental use of marine biological resources in the mediterranean.
there are many challenges in the common fisheries policy, especially when it comes to protecting marine biodiversity and ensuring sustainable development, including for fishermen.
other measures will promote the sustainable exploitation of red coral, reduce the incidental capture of seabirds, sea turtles and whales and conserve monk seals, sharks and rays in this area.
if it is regrettable that parliament's votes are still not up to the challenge, including here where the environmental requirements proposed by the commission have been reduced, it is in the right direction.
it is essential not to react hastily but to think about a comprehensive and sustainable long-term strategy in cooperation with the international community.
we must now therefore put all the good will - i would say all the feminine energy that has been expressed in the voice of the commissioner, in the voice of the minister and, under the auspices of the latvian presidency, in the voice of the prime minister of latvia - into building a compromise.
that is why the union has made a fool of itself in such vital areas as energy, asylum policy and immigration policy.
the european council on 14 february will focus solely on terrorism, followed by energy and the digital economy let us all organise institutions together to deal not only with the big issues, but one by one, at one time and in all aspects.
a more sustained process must be initiated with this country to lay the foundations for a policy of sustainable co-development on both sides of the mediterranean.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i also voted for an amendment calling on multinational companies to refrain from entering into transactions involving libyan oil which could finance militias and asking european companies operating in libya to disclose their financial transactions in the energy sector.
this deleterious climate, which has allowed the proliferation of terrorist groups and extremist movements, threatens not only the stability of the region but also all countries that are currently confronted with terrorism.
it must also work to ensure that the parties to the conflict agree without delay to a freeze in military operations in order to create a favourable environment for the crisis to be resolved.
the extension of sanctions to energy, and particularly gas, is a serious blow to the energy policy of the member states of the union.
this is a policy that serves the united states exclusively, which is the only beneficiary of the deterioration of energy relations between the european union and russia.
the extension of the sanctions to the energy sector, and particularly to gas, is a serious blow to the continent's energy policy.
this is a policy that is exclusively in the interests of the united states, which is benefiting from a deterioration in our energy relations with russia.
the choice to deprive ourselves of energy trade with russia is clearly assumed as an objective, despite its economic and diplomatic absurdity.
i voted in favour of my group's legislative proposal because it emphasises the priorities which the commission must take into account, such as the development of a social dimension, strong commitments to the environment, a new tax policy and a more ambitious cohesion and solidarity policy.
the resolution also refers to eu trade policy and recalls in particular the objective of achieving a balanced and comprehensive eu-us transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) that respects european social, environmental and consumer protection standards.
unfortunately, other priorities for the cohesion and sustainable development of the union are missing.
those of us who strongly opposed the commission's withdrawal of environmental or social legislation, air quality or waste measures, and the maternity leave directive, got the majority.
how will very long-term investment projects, which are the seeds of a sustainable and socially inclusive model, be assessed?
just a few things like youth employment, energy transition, etc.
the plan will eventually mobilise eur 315 billion to finance strategic growth projects in the fields of transport, digital, energy, innovation, research and education.
is europe acting on the climate?
the sectors that are doing well are those that anticipate climate change, those that are part of the energy transition, efficiency and renewable energy.
i would ask you to read the commission paper on job-creating growth again: the first sector which will create jobs in europe is the energy transition sector.
but we also have to do this for the climate negotiations.
if we clear part of the ets, europe could set a target of 25% reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 by the end of spring.
mr president, commissioner, madam president, whatever the outcome of the paris conference, in a certain way it must serve as a springboard both for the implementation of the energy union and for the orientation of this investment plan for our ecological transition.
and there is one link that we are still missing, and that is the question of carbon pricing, in order to be sure to orientate towards long-term investment in the ecological transition, investment in good market conditions, as many here want.
i therefore ask, on behalf of the commission, that a debate on energy interconnections be added to the agenda of our plenary session.
in the context of the completion of the internal energy market, the development of an interconnected european network seems to me to be absolutely essential, not only for the countries of the iberian peninsula, but also for the baltic states.
the european parliament's committee on the environment adopted on 21 january a motion for a resolution on the country of origin labelling of meat used in processed foods.
finally, make the ecological revolution, the energy revolution, to create new, sustainable jobs, in which everyone can flourish, build their lives, start a family and look to the future with greater confidence".
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
we must not learn in sectors which are now - unfortunately - closed, we must think about the future, that is to say, sustainable jobs which cannot be relocated, but which are truly in step with the planet.
the apa cannot therefore be judged by its limited powers, but should be seen as a forum for dialogue and reflection that makes a decisive contribution to the definition and achievement of the global sustainable development goals.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing solidarity protectionism, which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
i am pleased to see that the amendments resulting from the court's judgment have been swiftly taken into account by the european commission so that this directive can continue to apply in a sustainable way.
i voted in favour of this resolution because this agreement will revitalise cooperation between the union and the republic of senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in senegal's fishing zones, in the interests of both parties.
it is therefore an agreement that will benefit both the eu and senegal, while respecting the principle of 'sustainable fisheries'.
this eu-senegal sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is to replace the previous agreement of 1981. it concerns french and spanish boats that work in complete transparency and with financial counterparts to finance local infrastructure even as the country suffers unfair competition from "pirate boats" that illegally fish in senegalese waters.
the agreement, which is to run for five years, provides for fishing opportunities for 28 european tuna seiners, 8 european tuna seiners and 2 european trawlers and is also intended to help to revitalise cooperation between the european union and the republic of senegal with a view to promoting a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in senegal's fishing areas.
that is why the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and senegal and its implementation protocol adopted by the european parliament are acts whose importance i would like to underline here, both for the union and for our senegalese partner.
i voted in favour of the report on the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and senegal.
it respects the principles of sustainable fishing and benefits both parties.
in addition, there is uncertainty regarding the stock of black hake, which makes such an authorisation dangerous for biodiversity.
i voted in favour of this text, which establishes a sustainable fisheries partnership between the european union and senegal.
the agreement is fair and sustainable in that it contains clauses which require that at least 20% of the seamen on board vessels authorised to fish must be from senegal or an acp country.
i voted in favour of this text because it is essential to set the criteria for sustainable fishing and to allow the coastal countries of africa, particularly senegal, to enjoy their full rights in their territorial waters in terms of fishing.
the agreement, which respects the principles of sustainable fishing and the conservation of fish stocks, is based on the scientific advice of the committee for fisheries in the eastern and central atlantic (copace) and is part of the external dimension of the common european fisheries policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
whether it's climate, human rights or the internet, we can see the ineffectiveness of these global projects.
whether it's climate, human rights or the internet, we can see the ineffectiveness of these global projects.
whether it's climate, human rights or the internet, we can see the ineffectiveness of these global projects.
whether it's climate, human rights or the internet, we can see the ineffectiveness of these global projects.
finally, we invite the acp-eu app to invest in the definition of the development framework and the post-2015 sustainable development goals.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, dear commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the presentation by the european commission of the energy union strategy was highly anticipated, because we need clearer and more robust european energy and climate policies now than ever.
these challenges are many: the internal energy market, which is not sufficiently integrated, a high gas price, which is weakening our european industry and contributing to high energy costs for our citizens, a fragile international environment and growing uncertainties among investors.
we must therefore mobilise to make the energy union a success and a bridge to achieving the objectives that the european union has set itself, both for the reduction of greenhouse gases and, also and above all, for our competitiveness and the necessary reindustrialisation of the european union.
security of supply - you have spoken about this - is paramount and the european union provides 53% of the energy it consumes.
the recent events in ukraine therefore require us to be vigilant and to promote greater energy independence.
to do this, we must make complementary use of all the different energy sources available, with a market-based approach.
this energy security also and above all requires the creation of a more integrated internal energy market with better interconnections, and i welcome the european commission's intention in this regard.
energy efficiency must be our main concern if we are to avoid waste.
we must not abandon the millions of european citizens who live in energy poverty.
the energy transition offers us the opportunity to use different energy sources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, your energy union project suffers from three design flaws.
only states can build their own energy security.
they are the essential links in the european energy security chain.
while the market is only thinking six months or a year ahead, this long-term vision is absolutely necessary for the financing of energy infrastructure.
in the past, by imposing your rules on russia - as you impose your rules on our states - you have broken south stream and the security of our energy supply.
your european energy security policy is a european policy of energy insecurity.
mr president, yes, we need to improve energy efficiency.
yes, we can hope that the development of renewable energy will allow us to reduce our energy dependence along with our greenhouse gas emissions.
the new executive director of the international energy agency, mr birol, said just yesterday evening at a dinner-debate at the european energy forum that this was self-evident, and the representatives of the european commission, away from the cameras, could not say otherwise.
your energy union with russia will happen or it will not happen!
i want to give my full support to the new initiatives of the european commission to make the energy union project a reality.
i am convinced that the energy challenge is an opportunity for the european union.
energy is a key issue for european citizens and this project will enable the european union to develop a more coordinated and effective energy policy that will meet the challenges of energy security, the competitiveness of our companies, the energy poverty of thousands of our citizens and the gradual transition to a low-carbon economy.
i am particularly pleased that the commission is keen to make progress on energy efficiency and interconnections within the internal market and that it is committed to developing a strategy for research and innovation.
the strategy for a 'resilient' energy union, which can withstand supply difficulties or significant price fluctuations, hides some very dubious intentions.
for example, there is a fear that the european union's intervention in the interconnection of networks will result in a decline in energy production, with each state relying on its neighbour to produce for it.
this is what germany has been doing since it abandoned nuclear energy in favour of renewable energy.
as renewable energy sources, germany imports nuclear energy produced in its neighbours, thanks to the interconnection of electricity grids.
similarly, the european union's commitment to combating climate change is hampering our growth by placing heavy financial constraints on our own industries while our international competitors are scrambling to get their hands on it.
in the end, this is the crux of the problem: the energy union, a seemingly virtuous project, has no other purpose than to prolong an absurd conflict with russia, to the sole benefit of the united states.
this situation cannot last any longer, which is why the eurozone must stop being a reform house imposing austerity and now aim for social, ecological and energy excellence by embarking as soon as possible on fiscal harmonization - and in particular corporate taxation - the fight against tax havens, the introduction of minimum wages in all states, the financing of the investments essential for the transition to a decarbonised economy.
we know that monetary policy can still determine the basic, necessary conditions for growth, but then you have to have an environment that is growth friendly.
collectivization of costs, privatization of profits - that is what is likely to happen again with the juncker plan, combined with your new guidelines, particularly in the fields of energy and transport.
so with my colleagues from the national front on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have asked for a public hearing from efsa to explain its delusional conclusions about bisphenol a. the fact that the american chemical industry unions are celebrating these findings is more than alarming.
so we really ask you now to tell the environment dg, which has worked on this issue and has the criteria, to give priority to health over the economy.
whether it is the improvement of the aerodynamic performance of vehicles, their energy efficiency or the performance and safety requirements, i do not see any area in which the member states would not be able to act effectively themselves.
as usual, the commission is trampling on the principle of subsidiarity in the name of reducing co2 emissions, which are clearly a good thing.
finally, under the pretext of combating global warming, the commission is allowing itself to intervene in all areas, in defiance of the treaties.
although this new text does not put an end to mega-trucks, these giga-liners which pose risks to road safety, road maintenance and the environment, it is necessary to support this revision which brings several major positives such as the reaffirmation of the ban on trucks over 40 tonnes crossing from one country to another, as well as the generalization of the control box system allowing better monitoring of heavy goods vehicles.
finally, improving the aerodynamics of trucks and developing low-carbon engines are equally crucial issues in the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i am particularly pleased that there is no longer any question of opening up the european roads to the free movement of 'mega-trucks', those giant heavy goods vehicles which are currently only used locally in some countries of the union and which, in my view, have no place in a europe geared towards a sustainable economy, and logically therefore towards modal shift.
since then, we have taken a long time to stabilise the financial markets and to save the banks, but basically very little is being done to ensure the essential thing, namely the long-term financing of the economy so that the european union can face its own challenges: climate change, the demographic challenge and what have you.
i am more than ever in favour of social and ecological protectionism, the only remedy and control to ensure public health and the development of a european high-technology sector.
in this context, the german company aleo solar and two of its subsidiaries have laid off 657 employees in a region of germany with a deteriorating social climate.
environmentalists say renewable energy must finally become a clear priority for the eu if such closures are not to happen again.
i support this request and stress the importance of this fund in enabling european companies in the solar energy sector to face increased international competition and to retain their employees.
‒ i voted in favour of this text, which authorises the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for a total amount of eur 1 094 760 to help the reintegration of 476 german workers made redundant by their employer, the solar energy company aleo solar.
in addition, other factors have aggravated the crisis in the european steel industry: falling demand in the automotive and construction sectors and rising production costs (in particular due to environmental constraints and energy prices).
the industry is suffering a real shipwreck in europe, and although the tragedy cannot be measured in numbers, some are particularly striking: for example, between 2008 and 2013, some 280 000 workers in the european union of 27 lost their jobs in the metal industry, whose workforce fell from 1.44 million to 1.16 million people (- 19.4 million in the eu-27 and the commission has also been asked to provide information on the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment and the environment protection.
in addition, other factors have aggravated the industrial crisis: falling demand in the automotive and construction sectors and rising production costs (notably due to environmental constraints and energy prices).
whether it is the improvement of the aerodynamic performance of vehicles, their energy efficiency or the performance and safety requirements, i do not see any area in which the member states would not be able to act effectively.
under the pretext of combating global warming, the commission is allowing itself to intervene in all areas, in defiance of the treaties.
‒ under the pretext of combating global warming, the commission believes it is entitled to intervene in all areas, in defiance of the principle of subsidiarity supposedly guaranteed by the eu treaties.
this text should improve the aerodynamic performance of vehicles and their energy efficiency in order to reduce co2 emissions, while ensuring that they meet performance and safety requirements.
the revision aims to improve road safety and energy savings, while improving the environmental footprint.
indeed, these vehicles account for about a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions.
this directive will improve road safety, protect the environment and encourage technological innovation.
this balanced agreement was the subject of difficult negotiations during the last mandate and i am particularly pleased that there is no longer any question of opening up the movement of 'mega trucks', those giant heavy goods vehicles which are currently only used locally in some countries of the union and which in my view have no place in a europe geared towards a sustainable economy, and therefore logically towards modal shift, to free movement on european roads.
although this new text does not put an end to the mega-trucks, these giant lorries which pose risks to road safety, road maintenance and the environment, i voted in favour of this revision which includes several major positive points such as the reaffirmation of the ban on lorries over 40 tonnes crossing from one country to another, as well as the generalization of the control box system to allow better monitoring of heavy goods vehicles.
finally, improving the aerodynamics of trucks and developing low-carbon engines are equally crucial issues in the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
whether it is the improvement of the aerodynamic performance of vehicles, their energy efficiency, or the performance and safety requirements, i do not see any area in which the member states would not be able to act effectively.
under the pretext of combating global warming, the commission is allowing itself to intervene in all areas, in defiance of the treaties.
these vehicles will therefore have to meet higher safety and environmental standards, and i welcome this.
aerodynamic performance of vehicles, energy efficiency, performance and safety requirements) the states seem to be competent.
the european institutions are trying to intervene in all areas in defiance of the treaties, using the pretext of global warming.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which is good news for employment, security and the environment.
these measures will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improve road safety and facilitate intermodal transport operations, while ensuring undistorted competition and protecting road infrastructure.
‒ under cover of environmental requirements, in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and transport safety, the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the maximum authorised dimensions and maximum authorised weights of certain vehicles in circulation in the community is a step towards opening up european road networks to competition through enhanced regulatory harmonisation.
‒ technological developments offer the possibility of adding retractable or folding aerodynamic devices to the rear of vehicles, allowing for significant energy savings.
the proposal therefore aims to limit pollution from buses and lorries.
of course, these measures will remain a long shot until real ecological planning will make it possible to reduce road transport to rail.
i am abstaining in this context in order not to prevent these meagre advances while denouncing the commission's lack of ambition in reducing greenhouse gases.
this will ultimately help to increase road safety and protect the environment.
this vote is a positive signal for the reduction of co2 emissions and the promotion of the modal shift from road freight to rail.
the text also takes account of user safety and environmental protection by incorporating provisions to promote alternative fuels and vehicle aerodynamics.
the adjustment of vehicle dimensions standards will allow the addition of aerodynamic features, improved cabin profiles and better energy absorption in the event of an accident.
it also improves aerodynamics with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and their impact on the environment.
these vehicles, which can weigh up to 60 tonnes, raise major concerns for road safety and the environment.
it also encourages the adoption of new standards favouring commercial trucks or buses with low-carbon engines.
in approving this amendment, our assembly is stressing the imperative of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and in particular co2, but also of improving safety on our roads.
the new directive amends a 1996 text on the weight and dimensions of trucks to allow exemptions from the current limits and to improve their environmental performance and safety.
considering that this proposal will facilitate the flow of capital into the real economy, in line with the european objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, i voted in favour of this text.
‒ the european union needs structural and innovative investment to get back on the path to sustainable growth.
the adoption of this report on the creation of the european long-term investment fund is a step in the right direction and will increase the options for long-term financing of projects in research, innovation, infrastructure or energy.
long-term financing is essential to enable the european economy to move towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
but attempts to shift these investments towards social and environmental sustainability have not been taken into account.
the return of jobs in europe requires these strategic investments and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
this funding is crucial to achieve the europe 2020 objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive european growth.
‒ many projects, which are essential for europe's economic recovery, require a long-term financial commitment: transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure are examples.
in addition, there is a high risk of having profitable investments which are only made in the nordic countries which do not need them, in the absence of an investment agency promoting long-term profitable investments in the context of sectors, such as energy saving or new energy (financing companies, craft industries, companies selling equipment).
this report clearly calls for further projects to open up the network and energy industries to competition, in line with the objectives of the juncker plan.
competition is a driver of economic growth and job creation, but it must be done in an environment where all actors have the same chances of success.
the report notes in particular the modernisation work carried out in state aid in many areas, such as the environment, energy, regional funds and research and innovation.
the text also clearly calls for the continuation of projects to open up the network and energy industries to competition, in line with the objectives of the juncker plan.
finally, the commission proposes to open up the network and energy industries to competition, thus recalling the objectives of the juncker plan.
the text also clearly calls for the continuation of projects to open up the network and energy industries to competition, in line with the objectives of the juncker plan.
the privatisation of former public utilities such as energy, transport and telecommunications has mainly maximised the profits of a few players.
it recommends further reducing the scope of services of general economic interest (sgeis) exempted from notification, such as social housing, and derogations from state aid for sustainable energy.
in the name of the sacred principle of free and undistorted competition, it proposes to break down national borders and artificial barriers a little more, while at the same time being concerned about social dumping and eliminating monopolistic energy suppliers, even though the united states has backed down.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which takes stock of competition policy in the union, particularly in the energy, transport, public services and digital sectors.
in a difficult economic environment of sluggish growth, persistently high unemployment and the risk of deflation, the report considers it crucial to create the conditions for a revival of both public and private investment in the euro area and welcomes the introduction of the new instruments - the single supervisory and resolution mechanisms - to ensure greater financial stability.
the member states are therefore asked to work towards structural reforms that create a business-friendly environment and the ecb to ensure that its policies are better adapted to the real economy, in particular with regard to smes.
i would like to mention a number of problems: the delays in programming the structural funds, to the extent that we have to change the multiannual financial framework at a time when europe is in urgent need of investment; the youth employment initiative, which has so far failed to meet the objectives which parliament had entrusted to the commission and the member states; budgetary constraints, which deprive the union and the member states of the means to respond to the global challenges of the fight against terrorism, the ukrainian crisis and the great climate challenge.
and, most importantly, there are our difficulties in funding innovation, the energy transition, the fight against climate change, blue growth.
the investment in the future, which includes university research, investment in the energy challenge, but also investment in the whole question of infrastructure, in the real economy in general and in industrial developments which will help to find the jobs that europe needs.
european cooperation and development funds will also have to be mobilised in the coming months to strengthen health systems in developing countries in a sustainable way.
mr president, this is the seventh summit of the union on energy in five years.
in february 2011, the focus was on developing the european energy market.
in may 2013, it was the launch of the new energy strategy.
in march 2014, back to the completion of the internal energy market.
and october 2014 saw the arrival of the new energy-climate package.
but each time, energy europe is backsliding.
it has failed to react to the rapid development of unconventional hydrocarbons and the emissions trading system (ets) has collapsed.
let us adopt it once and for all and let us plan for the eighth european council on energy to meet in five years' time to see that the policy we need is actually being implemented.
mr president, madam president, mr vice-president, when it comes to the energy union, it is time to act.
but you will not act consistently if you do not give a clear signal about the price of carbon.
so, madam president, if you want this european council to be useful, including in making the paris summit a success, we must move faster on what this parliament is asking you to implement, namely the stability reserve and a clarification to allow long-term investment in favour of the ecological transition in the face of the carbon price challenge.
the next european council will set three priorities: external relations, the european semester for growth and jobs and the energy union.
he also commits us to the development of renewable energy even as china is unfairly competing with us and killing our industries in this sector.
obviously, the ministers of finance and employment have contributed but we have also debated the annual growth survey in the competitiveness, energy and environment councils.
taking the example of energy, the annual growth survey was examined by the energy ministers in the same context as the new energy union and energy infrastructure proposals.
looking at things from the energy policy perspective, the european semester is a tool for implementing, for example, the internal energy market.
at the same time, the energy union is necessary to generate more growth in europe.
i refer in particular to improving the investment climate and, more generally, the business environment in europe.
to be effective, europe should focus on the sectors with highest potential, in particular the digital economy, energy, transport, telecommunications and services.
digitisation should cut across all policy fields, from industrial to environmental policies.
the commission has, in recent weeks, delivered strategies on the capital markets union and the energy union, and the digital single market will follow soon.
without downplaying the achievements so far, most member states still need to work on their debt sustainability.
to get there, member states must deliver on structural, fiscal and social policies and the eu must strengthen key common policies in fields such as energy, the digital single market and taxation.
a key aspect of this investment package is to remove barriers for investment, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), and i am very pleased that my colleague elzbieta bieńkowsa is with us today to discuss the european semester, since a strong single market and product market reform are also necessary to improve the environment for investment.
what a waste!
this requires respect for the three pillars of sustainable development: economic, social and environmental.
in public procurement too, to help smes, small businesses and artisans through calls for tenders that not only aim at low costs but also at a more sustainable economy and jobs that cannot be relocated.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in the end, beyond our differences, this report on the governance of the single market tries to find this balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
it grants exceptional customs duties to third countries which, in addition to facilitating imports and thus competing with our farmers, do not necessarily comply with the health and environmental standards required in principle by the european union.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
it sets a clear overall objective: to ensure the sustainable use of resources from a biological, social, economic and environmental point of view.
it integrates the main elements of the common fisheries policy, such as the objective of maximum sustainable yield, the ecosystem approach and respect for the precautionary principle, the reduction of discards, and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
because the sustainable use of marine biological resources in the mediterranean and the protection of the marine ecosystems that support them play a vital role in promoting blue growth and sustainable development, i support this agreement.
a proposal on certain provisions for fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement contained many amendments to facilitate the fishing of red coral, an endangered species which is vital to the mediterranean ecosystem.
however, the draft presented here is about the agreement itself and seems to have a clear objective of sustainable use of marine biological resources.
it also fits into a global vision of conservation and sustainable use of marine biological resources and protection of marine ecosystems.
in january, for example, a proposal on certain provisions for fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement contained many amendments to facilitate the fishing of red coral, an endangered species which is vital to the mediterranean ecosystem.
the recommendation on which we were to vote seems to be more concerned with the sustainable use of marine biological resources.
however, the recommendation here is about the agreement itself and seems to be clearly aimed at the sustainable use of marine biological resources.
however, even if the recommendation amends the agreement itself by promoting the sustainable use of fisheries resources, the effectiveness of this commission in protecting marine resources is questionable, as evidenced by the january 2015 proposal to promote the fishing of red coral, a species that is essential to the mediterranean sea ecosystem.
the report does indeed contain a plan with clear objectives for the sustainable use of marine biological resources; however, i remain cautious about such good intentions.
in fact, last january a proposal on certain provisions relating to fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement contained many amendments to facilitate the fishing of red coral, a species which is under threat and whose disappearance would destabilise the entire mediterranean ecosystem.
upstream and coordinated action will ensure the sustainability of marine species, which is one of the major challenges of the coming years from both a food security and biodiversity perspective.
a proposal on certain provisions relating to fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement contained many amendments to facilitate the fishing of red coral, an endangered species which is vital to the mediterranean ecosystem.
however, the draft presented here is about the agreement itself and seems to have a clear objective of sustainable use of marine biological resources.
the objective of this text is to ensure the sustainable use of marine biological resources in the mediterranean.
the text will thus allow for better development and more sustainable use of marine resources in the mediterranean and black seas, and for greater protection of the marine ecosystems that harbour these resources.
the aim of the draft presented to parliament seems to be the sustainable and respectful use of marine biological resources.
the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose role is to promote the development, conservation, management and exploitation of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black seas.
the objectives, general principles and functions of the gfcm have been revised and extended to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use of marine biological resources and their environment.
‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean will be able to take over many cases, such as the red coral fishery, whose mismanagement has seriously damaged the mediterranean ecosystem and its fisheries resources.
the fisheries resources are particularly threatened, particularly because of illegal fishing and pollution.
however, even if the recommendation amends the agreement itself by promoting the sustainable use of fisheries resources, the effectiveness of this commission in protecting marine resources is questionable, as evidenced by the january 2015 proposal to promote the fishing of red coral, a species that is essential to the mediterranean sea ecosystem.
the gfcm, which was established in 1949 and to which the european union acceded in 1998, aims to promote the development, conservation, management and exploitation of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black seas.
however, the recommendation here is about the agreement itself and seems to be clearly aimed at the sustainable use of marine biological resources.
‒ global warming, the protection of the planet and sustainable development are the new challenges facing our societies today.
the union has made a strong commitment to the member states to promote sustainable growth and protect the environment and natural resources.
with this in mind, the union set up the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) in 1949 to promote the development, conservation, management and exploitation of marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture.
‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a regional fisheries management organisation whose role is to promote the development, conservation, management and exploitation of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black seas.
in the end, an agreement was reached; it allows for a clearer explanation of the purpose of the agreement establishing the gfcm (ensuring the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of marine biological resources), a better definition of the gfcm's functions (promoting common fisheries management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of regulated fishing areas and the collection and dissemination of data), provisions for the imposition of sanctions and the establishment of dispute settlement mechanisms.
the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose role is to promote the development, conservation, management and exploitation of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black seas.
the reform includes the definition of clear objectives to ensure the sustainable use of marine biological resources, a better definition of the functions of the gfcm and a review of sanctioning and dispute settlement procedures.
last january, a proposal on certain provisions relating to fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement contained many amendments to facilitate the fishing of red coral, an endangered species which is vital to the mediterranean ecosystem.
however, the draft presented here is about the agreement itself and seems to set as a clear objective the sustainable use of marine biological resources.
the commission, which brings together 23 countries around the mediterranean, aims to organise the sustainable, social, economic and environmental exploitation of marine biological resources in the mediterranean.
while fisheries policy has undergone many changes in 50 years, it was time to update this agreement by integrating new priorities such as maximum sustainable yield, the ecosystem approach, reducing discards and combating illegal fishing.
last january, a proposal on certain provisions for fishing in the area covered by the gfcm agreement contained many amendments to facilitate the fishing of red coral, an endangered species which is vital to the mediterranean ecosystem.
however, the draft presented here is about the agreement itself and seems to set as a clear objective the sustainable use of marine biological resources.
in parallel with this reflection on the optimal use of european budgetary resources to promote the return to sustainable growth, the report once again underlines the need to tackle the problem of unpaid invoices decisively.
these included rebalancing towards environmental and solidarity priorities.
the horizon 2020 research programme, cosme, erasmus+, external and humanitarian aid, the energy transition and migration and asylum policies.
then there is the challenge of the energy transition.
with the french socialist members we are advocating a rebalancing of priorities in favour of the environment and solidarity.
research programmes, external and humanitarian aid, the energy transition, youth employment, and migration and asylum policies should be given particular attention.
budget 2016 provides for a 3e plan with jobs, enterprises and entrepreneurship, for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union.
the plan chapters thus reveal target sectors where the chances of success and sustainability of the targeted investments are reduced.
moreover, the fact that the energy or transport sectors were chosen in particular and that the eligibility criteria for sme investments were vague reflects the desire to strengthen the single market in the union and open up network industries to competition on the one hand and the economic rationale of the commission on the other hand, which is likely to lead to financial confusion.
i voted in favour of this text and i support the main points that were defended, namely promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by focusing on employment, smes and the integration of young people into the labour market.
i would also like to reiterate my support for the structural funds and the investment funds to undertake long-term projects in europe in key sectors (energy, innovation, transport).
in the gue/ngl we know that only a fundamental re-examination of the austerity policies can stop the recession in which the european union is locking itself up, by calling for an end to social and fiscal dumping, a policy of re-industrialisation, relocation measures, and real support for energy and ecological transitions, which are capable of creating jobs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of the environment, health and the environment.
this resolution is a catalogue of interference in serbian politics, particularly in the social, economic, institutional and energy fields.
the report highlights that the level of investment in europe has fallen by €470 billion since the peak of the crisis and that the euro area continues to face record unemployment (12%) it supports the commission's approach to consolidating the recovery along three lines: boosting investment, accelerating structural reforms and consolidating public finances to return to sustainable growth.
these pillars and reforms are part of the solution to reduce unemployment and poverty and to return to sustainable growth.
i support the three-pillar approach fiscal consolidation, investment and structural reforms to support the return of sustainable growth and job creation in europe.
finally, recent reforms imposed by brussels have - let us not forget - led to an increase in precarious work, which is the opposite of a sustainable strategy for jobs and growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it stresses in particular the need to take account of social indicators and to promote the creation of decent jobs in the context of sustainable and sound growth.
in addition, it will obviously be necessary to go further and further in the digital or energy single market, to facilitate even more the free movement of goods, through ttip in particular, to open public contracts to private concessions (privatisation therefore!)
in this context, i welcome the new commission's desire to remove barriers to investment by completing the single market, particularly in the energy and digital sectors.
i am therefore pleased that the european commission has adopted initiatives in the field of energy and is due to propose a strategy for the digital single market in the coming months.
‒ the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015 is based on the single will to strengthen the european single market or to extend it to many sectors such as energy or digital, as well as to public procurement.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
i would consider energy or digital markets to be such areas.
the european union and its member states must therefore protect and guarantee a safe environment for children and their development.
prevention is also essential to ensure a safe environment for children's development.
‒ what a waste of time it has been 10 years since the european parliament's first report on this subject.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
if the european union does not devote all its energy and financial resources to ensuring that there are public services, i do not see how the population can accept the fact that there are still movements with kalashnikovs that threaten the population.
madam president, yes, for several years now, a climate of hatred and violence has been rising within the european union.
i have therefore decided to table a resolution on behalf of the committee on fisheries containing proposals for the sustainable management of the bar.
the european union has made a historic breakthrough by setting itself the objective of maximum sustainable yield.
once again russia is blamed for all the ills, especially the "climate of hatred and tension in europe".
without directly holding vladimir putin responsible for the murder of boris nemtsov, the draft resolutions tend to make him indirectly responsible for all the alleged ills of russian society and accuse him of creating a 'climate of hatred and tension' which is believed to have been the cause of the crime.
russia is thus singled out as the sole responsible party for the "climate of hatred and tension in europe", an authoritarian state with arbitrary political justice.
concerned about the climate of violence against opposition activists, human rights activists, minorities and neighbouring countries, which has worsened in russia in recent years, i believe that the council, the commission and the member states must put in place a unified policy with a strong common message on the importance of human rights in eu-russia relations and the need to put an end to the repression of freedom of expression, assembly and association in russia.
‒ the joint resolution strongly condemns the assassination of boris nemtsov and is logically concerned about the deleterious climate in russia for any citizen opposition due to the intense and crude propaganda currently being implemented by the russian government.
‒ voted against this purely ideological resolution which, in a simplified view of reality, blames russia and its president for all ills, including the 'climate of hatred and tension in europe'.
it is purely ideological to blame mr putin for all the ills of russian society and to accuse him of creating a climate of hatred and tension in europe, even before the investigation into the death of boris nemtsov had begun.
in this resolution, parliament expressed concern at the violent political climate in russia and called for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including nadia savtchenko, a member of the ukrainian parliament and of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe.
the report does indeed outline an ambitious foreign policy for the union, adapted to the current and future challenges - terrorism, irregular immigration and energy security in particular.
i am convinced that in the context of the deterioration of the union's security environment at its eastern and southern borders, the european union's influence in the world must be the first priority of an effective common foreign and security policy.
the report also expresses a certain distrust of russia under the guise of a strategy of security and energy independence.
we call for the establishment of a genuine common defence policy, which would be coordinated with other areas such as energy policy or migration policy.
the challenges are many: dealing with instability in eastern and southern europe, combating the jihadist threat, protecting europe's values and interests, improving the union's energy security, combating organised crime and trafficking, playing a leading role in conflict resolution and strengthening respect for the rule of law and human rights worldwide.
among the issues raised, such as the definition of climate refugees, minority rights or a moratorium on the use of the death penalty, i spoke in particular for the recognition of the inalienable rights of women and girls to dispose of their bodies and their right to access health care and abortion.
the thematic and non-ad hominem approach chosen by the rapporteur has highlighted a number of challenges - the definition of the term climate refugee or the fight against the death penalty - and is very effective in guiding our external action.
the commission has already proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to propose measures to promote sustainable fishing, while also reiterating the unjust ban on fishing for pelagic trawlfish in the english channel, the celtic sea and the north sea, imposed by the commission last april.
this is a measure that has long been requested by french fishermen and is also being done in a spirit of preserving our ecosystem.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which proposes a roadmap for the implementation of a sustainable management plan for cod fishing, identifying several possible measures.
i therefore voted in favour of this resolution in the interests of protecting the environment and preserving the species.
‒ the front national meps voted in favour of the resolution on sustainable fishing for hake, as it is a balanced text aimed at avoiding the extension of the moratorium on fishing for hake beyond 30 april 2015, while proposing sustainable fishing measures beyond that date.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the bar, whose stocks are in a worrying state.
although i regret the rejection of my group's amendments calling for the extension of the emergency measures and the adoption of a regionalised approach to the management of this fishery, i voted in favour of this text which calls for better control of this fishery to safeguard the bluefin tuna and thus the biodiversity of our oceans.
this resolution also seeks to address a subject which i believe is important, namely the links between climate change and human rights.
environmental changes threaten the livelihoods of particularly vulnerable populations in low-income countries and in coastal and small island low-lying states that lack the economic resources to adapt to radical environmental changes.
in this respect, climate change is an obstacle to the realisation of internationally recognised fundamental rights.
because i believe that the states parties to the conference of the parties on climate change will have to take a stand on this issue, participate in the legal definition of the term 'climate refugee' at the international level and adopt ambitious mitigation and adaptation measures, i voted in favour of this resolution.
rsf also highlighted the adoption of new laws in 2004 and 2005 against various types of "offenses", including against the president, and against calls for violence, calling them "very restrictive in terms of freedom of expression" and saying they create "a climate of self-censorship in the media".
the increasing number of arrests of political opponents, including antonio ledezma, mayor of caracas, illustrates this deteriorating climate.
i would also like to start by mentioning the energy union, which is particularly important for us.
i would like to point out that the member states have supported the five pillars of this union: energy security, the integration of the internal market, energy efficiency, decarbonisation and, of course, research and development.
and translate this energy union into concrete action as quickly as possible.
first, energy security, which requires first and foremost the completion of a more integrated internal energy market.
without regional cooperation aimed at the completion of this internal energy market and without the firm application of the legislation of the third package on the internal energy market, the energy union will be impossible.
secondly, the european union must manage its supplies better by a real diversification of its energy sources.
it must reduce its energy dependence and promote energy efficiency, particularly in buildings.
to become the world leader in these renewable energy technologies, we must seize the opportunities in these sectors, not only in wind and solar, but also in biomass, electricity storage, co2 storage and capture, hydrogen and, finally, nuclear power of the future.
its energy mix and its supply possibilities.
such decisions are certainly not in the direction of harmonizing what we have to decide in the context of this energy union.
this time it was the energy union.
the european council endorsed the european commission's new initiatives in the field of energy.
the council and parliament must now work and take up their responsibilities to make the energy union an ambitious and appropriate response to the challenges of energy security, business competitiveness, the transition to a low-carbon economy and energy poverty.
different energy policies, including those which differ in terms of network and supply infrastructure, should be better coordinated, while respecting the member states' competence in choosing their energy mix.
in addition, a common policy framework should be provided which is adapted to the diversity of energy sources in europe, from wind power in the north sea and the mountains of spain to solar energy in latin america, not to mention french nuclear energy.
finally, public and private financing should be provided to match our ambitions, with the commission estimating the cost of the energy union at 2 000 billion by 2025. so here is the gist of the challenges ahead and the responsibility that lies ahead.
firstly, a great disruption to the working environment of international lorry drivers, who are either shamefully exploited or have their jobs destroyed, as the national chains have lost thousands of driver jobs.
the commission has also received comments from the ukrainian authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its view that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the union's policy on the protection of the environment.
the assistance also involves the implementation of a national reform strategy addressing some of the weaknesses in the economy, including in public financial management, the fight against corruption, the functioning of the tax administration and the business environment.
the draft memorandum of understanding provides for a series of reforms: reforms in public financial management, anti-corruption measures, reforms in the tax administration and in the energy and financial sectors.
i should like to say that i voted for this text because it provides in advance for a memorandum of understanding by which ukraine commits itself to implementing reforms in public financial management, anti-corruption measures, changes in the tax administration, reforms in the energy and financial sectors and measures to improve the business environment.
and if there is one thing i am confident about, it is your determination and our willingness to all of us in the european institutions, in the context of our new working environment, to fully integrate this dimension of the integration of disability and disabled people into our steering.
the french state could have taken measures to respond to this phenomenon in an ecological planning objective by promoting conversion in rail freight, for example.
the funds will enable them to receive personalised and regular support in building their new career path, advice or various types of training to maximise their chances of returning to a sustainable job.
the social protection committee has demonstrated its effectiveness in the framework of the open method of coordination (omc); this effort must be continued in the four objectives defined by the commission: making work financially attractive and guaranteeing an income, ensuring pension security and the sustainability of pension schemes, promoting social inclusion, and guaranteeing a high and sustainable level of health protection for all.
these committees are a waste of public money for technocrats who are completely out of touch with reality, particularly with employment.
‒ following the approval of the council of the european union, parliament in turn gave its opinion on the amendment of the multiannual financial framework concerning the transfer of cohesion policy funds from 2014 to 2015-2017. the main guidelines of cohesion policy were not adopted in time and were not sustainable.
the €50 billion put on the table between 2007 and 2013 has, in most cases, been very little used, showing the lack of interest of national authorities like romania in their sustainable integration.
the €50 billion put on the table between 2007 and 2013 has, in most cases, been very little used, showing the lack of interest of national authorities, especially romanian ones, in their sustainable integration.
however, we are the committee on the environment and health, and we must look at this resolution from the point of view of public health.
please, commissioner, when your services are called upon to make legislative proposals, you must measure the social, environmental and economic impacts.
and unfortunately, this is not the reality of zero-waste but of mandatory landing.
the choice to convert this waste into flour was made by the majority, not by me.
the sustainability of fishing enterprises and coastal activities is at stake.
i would say that it is balanced and that it allows, in short, to preserve the investments made in these first generation biofuels, but at the same time it ensures that these biofuels do not compete with food production and that they do not produce greenhouse gas emissions that are excessive in relation to other agricultural land.
europe must not be left behind in the field of sustainable fuels, and that is why it must strongly support research and development in this field.
at a time when we are aiming to reach a binding global compromise at the paris summit - cop21 - we have a first positive signal from europe: we are ready to get serious about the low-carbon economy.
i would have liked to go further, asking for the inclusion of iluc factors in the sustainability criteria for agrofuels or imposing binding targets for virtuous biofuels.
the bottom line is this: europe is finally recognizing that agrofuels are not the answer to climate change.
plastic bags, made of petroleum-derived polyethylene, are a scourge to the environment - as has been said - a real poison, and far-reaching measures were needed to stop this massive pollution.
second, we will end free plastic bags for food by 2018. the task has not been easy, as too often when it comes to protecting our health and our ecosystem, with water at the heart of the issue we are addressing today.
you have not done so and you have preferred to privilege the interests of a particular niche rather than prevent this pollution that will affect biodiversity.
madam president, mrs bearder, you who are sensitive to the environment, what is your position on the fact that we have not banned the use of oxobiodegradable plastic bags?
monitoring, monitoring and sanctioning non-compliance with the co2 reduction targets in the shipping sector is a very timid triptych in the attempt to limit air pollution.
the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
because of the biofuel crops in southeast asia, which lead to deforestation and pollution, our good environmental friends wanted to stop all biofuel crops in europe.
‒ i voted in favour of this revision of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives because it does not aim to maintain the existing agrofuels industry by encouraging technological innovation.
the aim is to limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and to reduce the use of agricultural products by encouraging the use of waste.
this recommendation for a compromise between parliament and the council aims to amend the positive law on biofuels in the context of the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
for years, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport, the eu has encouraged the production of biofuels from food crops.
unfortunately, this policy has not reduced co2 emissions.
the compromise emphasises reducing the use of agricultural land in biofuel production in favour of investment in research into more advanced renewable fuels.
it presents this initiative as the main solution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
indeed, if i am sensitive to environmental issues, they must be tackled effectively, putting aside the ideological presuppositions of the dangerous 'green ayatollahs'.
‒ the european parliament's draft resolution deals with the adoption of the directives on fuel quality and renewable energies.
the original aim of the text was to limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and to support new types of fuel derived from the use of waste such as biomass.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fuel quality and renewable energy directives.
in this text we are adapting these two directives to the new environmental characteristics of biofuel production.
i am in favour of sustainable development as long as it is done in accordance with the principle of freedom, and i can only welcome this text which promotes biofuels with a view to reducing greenhouse gases.
i voted in favour of this text because if we want to achieve the environmental objectives set for 2020, we must not be without ambition in the transport sector.
in my view, innovation in renewable energy and clean fuels will both guarantee a greener european union than its global competitors and create jobs in a sector of the future.
our role as meps is not to change direction along the way - as some would like to do - but rather to accompany and encourage a change of direction in order to meet environmental needs but also not to divert the citizens of the european union.
‒ i voted in favour of this revision of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives because it does not aim to maintain the existing agrofuels industry by encouraging technological innovation.
the aim is to limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and to reduce the use of agricultural products by encouraging the use of waste.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it strikes a balance between the need to introduce a significant amount of biofuels into energy consumption and the need to reject an absolutist view on this point, which aims to preserve agricultural land from biofuels altogether.
the main reason given is that this activity would result in significant deforestation and pollution.
in the end, a compromise was reached: first generation biofuels should not exceed 7% of final energy consumption in transport by 2020. they will then be gradually replaced by other, more environmentally sound biofuels.
‒ i voted in favour of this revision of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives because it does not aim to maintain the existing agrofuels industry by encouraging technological innovation.
the aim is to limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and to reduce the use of agricultural products by encouraging the use of waste.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on fuel quality and renewable energy by my colleague nils torvalds, which aims to validate the agreement reached with the council and the european commission.
the agreement caps conventional biofuels at 7% in the calculation for the 2020 renewable energy target in transport, reflecting the investments made by the sector.
the development of advanced biofuels, which emit less greenhouse gases, will also be encouraged.
‒ i voted in favour of the compromise reached in the trilogue on the proposal on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and on energy produced from renewable sources.
‒ directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources requires a 10% share of energy from renewable sources in transport by 2020. the aim of the commission's proposal is to initiate the transition to a biofuel policy which will reduce greenhouse gas emissions significantly.
agrofuels which compete with agricultural products for food, to 6% of total energy consumption in transport.
‒ i voted in favour of this revision of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives because it does not aim to maintain the existing agrofuels industry by encouraging technological innovation.
the aim is to limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and to reduce the use of agricultural products by encouraging the use of waste.
the european parliament is to vote on a recommendation for a compromise between parliament and the council to amend the positive law on biofuels in the context of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the eu has for years been pushing for the production of biofuels from food crops in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport.
but this policy has had a negative effect and has not reduced co2 emissions.
the compromise emphasises reducing the use of agricultural land in biofuel production in favour of investment in research into more advanced renewable fuels.
‒ the proposed amendments to the legal framework promoting biofuels in greenhouse gas emission reduction targets respond to the commission's concern to increase the share of next generation (advanced) biofuels.
the aim is to limit the use of agricultural land for the production of biofuels and to reduce the use of agricultural products by encouraging the use of waste.
‒ energy and climate issues are now at the heart of the union's priorities.
the use of biofuels had emerged as a solution for europe's energy supply.
however, some agrofuels have been shown to have a harmful effect on the environment.
the european parliament voted in favour of the directive on tuesday, which combines and amends two existing directives on fuel quality and renewable energy.
‒ the european parliament today delivered its opinion on the agreement reached with the council on the revision of the fuel quality directive, which is intended to cap the share of 'first generation biofuels' in final energy consumption in the transport sector.
these biofuels, derived from food products, have negative effects both on the environment (intensive agricultural production, water pollution by pesticides and fertilizers, massive deforestation, reduction of biodiversity, etc.)
the text also fails to take up parliament's objective of setting the share of second generation biofuels, made from waste and non-edible plants, which are a viable biofuel solution, at 2.5%.
although it endorsed many compromises with respect to parliament's first reading position, there was an urgent need for a text on the issue of indirect land-use change (ilc), which causes famine and deforestation in developing countries and runs counter to the eu's greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
we have, throughout this dossier, maintained a balanced position by not calling into question the investments already made in the sector but by encouraging the development of a new generation of biofuels which are safer for the environment.
among the important points of the agreement, it is also noted that first generation biofuels should not represent more than 7% of final energy consumption in transport by 2020; this is a very important point, and it is not a question of putting into question the investments already made.
‒ based on the finding of the poor 'climate' balance of agrofuels, this revision has the stated objective of reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by incorporating the effects of the increasing use of agricultural land for the production of agrofuels called 'indirect land use change criterion' (casi iluc).
but in reality the 'casi criterion' is not taken into account in the calculation of the 'climate quality' of agrofuels and will only be the subject of a commission report based on the information provided by the producers.
voted by a large majority in the european parliament, this revised legislation is not up to the climate challenges, the member states, including france, bearing a large responsibility in this bad compromise!
i therefore voted against this text, in order not to join the eu in sending the wrong signal a few months before the paris climate change conference.
while the intention to reduce the environmental problem of bags is initially laudable, the measures envisaged may lead to negative consequences by encouraging the production of water-intensive paper bags or vacuum over-packaging.
the fact is that while these are used by the final consumer for only a few minutes, the damage to the environment is disastrous.
it should also be recalled that the implementation of environmental policy as provided for in article 11 of the tfeu must respect the principle of subsidiarity.
the commission must stop its inflationary legislative policy and respect the freedom of the member states to implement environmental protection policies.
these bags, used daily by a multitude of consumers, are all too often responsible for environmental pollution.
we must make efforts to preserve our environment.
these kinds of measures help to adapt our minds to today's environmental challenges.
this is a laudable objective from the point of view of sustainable development.
‒ the aim of this report is to avoid the consumption of plastic bags up to 50 microns thick and thus reduce their impact on the environment.
i also believe that this report will reduce the significant impact of the consumption of plastic bags on the environment while respecting the principle of proportionality by excluding very light bags and bags for the packaging of fresh food products, so i voted in favour of this report.
this is a real step forward in european legislation, which will make it possible to act against pollution and to limit the production of waste.
the adoption of this directive, in the run-up to the paris climate conference, is a reminder of the european union's commitment to environmental protection.
it is a deadly danger to birds and sea animals and a scourge to the environment.
the implementation of pilot projects at european level has had a rapid and effective effect, showing that a voluntary environmental management policy at community level can provide a serious and practical response.
‒ the objective of reducing or even eliminating plastic bags is certainly commendable, given the harm they cause to the environment.
the plastic bag culture is the throwaway culture, and biodegradable bags are not a sustainable solution either, suggesting that we could now throw our bags in the wild without consequence, which is not true.
if the problem of plastic bags is real and causes dramatic pollution, the commission's proposal is clearly not up to the challenge.
we now have the appropriate tools to limit the use of these bags and to spread good environmental practices.
the new legislation will require member states to make lightweight plastic bags payable by the end of 2018 and/or to reduce consumption to 90 bags per capita by the end of 2019. by 2025, annual consumption should be no more than 40 bags per inhabitant, compared with 178 in 2010. the rapid implementation of this directive will help to combat the scourge of plastic bags which pollute our environment.
the report will serve as a basis for the implementation of a directive that will set member states progressive targets for the reduction of lightweight plastic bags (up to 90 per person per year by 31 december 2019 and 40 per person by the end of 2025) and encourage them to make them payable by 31 december 2018. by adopting this report and supporting the implementation of this directive, the european parliament is once again promoting the dissemination of good environmental practice within the european union.
but this report does not address unnecessary packaging, which is the main source of plastic waste.
although the intentions are initially praiseworthy, the measures envisaged to reduce the environmental problem of bags spilling may lead to negative consequences by encouraging the production of expensive water-based paper bags, or vacuum over-packaging.
8 billion bags end up in the environment of the european union where they can persist for many years.
the commission will also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the environment.
the political effectiveness and ecological relevance are questionable.
the increasing accumulation of waste is creating more and more problems in terms of waste storage and disposal.
as part of the eu's climate objectives, and of a healthier environment and sustainable growth, the union is trying to limit the production of certain wastes.
the european parliament voted on tuesday on a proposal to amend directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags with handles.
i voted in favour of this text, which will make it possible to limit the production of this type of waste.
while blue growth is our future, we must protect biodiversity and natural environments to ensure their sustainability.
today the environment is threatened by the incalculable amount of waste that will impact it for centuries to come.
this problem is one example of the many types of soil pollution that harm biodiversity and of which we are all too little aware.
so it's a great step forward to regulate the use of plastic bags the european commission is asked to assess the impact of plastic waste on the environment.
the political effectiveness and ecological relevance are questionable.
‒ this text proposes measures which appear to be irrelevant and ineffective in the light of environmental concerns, and this within a complex framework.
finally, the text does not address the intensification of free trade in international trade which is a major cause of pollution by carbon dioxide emissions.
this report proposes to adopt the council position on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector amending directive 2009/16/ec.
the commission's objective is to fill the legal vacuum in international law regarding the lack of regulation on greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport in the imo framework.
unfortunately, the union is in total contradiction with this report, since on the one hand it encourages wild globalization and the opening up of frontiers, and on the other hand it complains about the pollution which is the consequence of this policy.
international shipping is the only means of transport not covered by the eu's policy on reducing greenhouse gases.
the effectiveness of the european commission's action on this issue is questionable, as it only proposes monitoring and verification of co2 emissions for large ships using european ports.
‒ the european parliament's proposal for a regulation concerns the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector.
in the absence of an international agreement setting targets for reducing carbon emissions, the commission is seeking to circumvent the rules by imposing monitoring and control of carbon emissions on member states.
this supranational drift will have a reduced environmental impact in terms of air pollution.
it is a global challenge to unbridled globalisation that must be undertaken if we are to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the shipping sector.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector.
this regulation will make it possible to monitor the carbon dioxide emissions of ships.
we need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions.
the eurocrats in brussels are seeking to substitute an international standard for the setting of targets for reducing emissions from the international shipping sector.
in addition to this infringement of the sovereignty of states, the measures defined by the directive will run counter to the reality of unbridled globalisation which itself guarantees pollution that no mere control or monitoring measure will be able to stem.
‒ the aim of this report is to establish a system for the management, reporting and verification of the reduction of carbon emissions from shipping.
this is a balanced ratio, since it limits the scope of the legislation to carbon dioxide only and excludes small ships, which, although they account for 40% of the european maritime sector, contribute only 10% of carbon emissions.
the adoption of this text will allow for effective monitoring and control of carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector.
we need to deliver on our commitments under the 2020 energy/climate package, and this text is a concrete step in that direction.
‒ i voted against the report on carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector.
firstly, the text proposes measures which appear to be of little relevance and ineffective in the light of environmental concerns, and this within a complex system.
finally, the text does not address the intensification of free trade in international trade which is a major cause of pollution by carbon dioxide emissions.
the proposal for a directive of 28 june 2013 aimed to establish a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from the maritime transport sector in order to reduce greenhouse gases from this sector.
my priorities have been taken into account, including the exclusion of small vessels, which account for 40% of the sector but less than 10% of emissions, and alignment with international imo standards.
‒ i voted against the report on carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector.
firstly, the text proposes measures which appear to be of little relevance and ineffective in the light of environmental concerns, and this within a complex system.
finally, the text does not address the intensification of free trade in international trade which is a major cause of pollution by carbon dioxide emissions.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague josé inacio faria on co2 emissions from ships.
‒ i supported this recommendation on carbon dioxide emissions for the shipping sector.
this recommendation establishes a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from the sector in order to control and work towards their limitation.
i am opposed to the desire to impose this agreement on the maritime sector in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions because it does not respect national sovereignty.
moreover, the objective of reducing carbon dioxide with its control measures is in contradiction with the trade system defended by the european union.
this trade based on free trade without any restrictions is incompatible with a desire to reduce emissions, since by definition this kind of trade is "polluting".
‒ this text establishes a necessary system for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions in the field of maritime transport.
but, above all, by treating the various transport sectors separately, it does not allow the implementation of an overall strategy which would include the relocation of the economy and ecological planning of transport by promoting rail and maritime transport.
this report proposes to adopt the council position on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector amending directive 2009/16/ec.
the commission's objective is to fill the legal vacuum in international law concerning the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions in maritime transport, within the framework of the international maritime organisation.
it feeds international flows, pushing for globalization at every turn (producing on the other side of the world and then importing it to europe), and then complaining about the pollution that results.
‒ i voted in favour of this agreement on the system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector.
it also saves small shipping companies from too heavy an administrative burden, as it excludes from the scheme small vessels, which account for 40% of the fleet but less than 10% of co2 emissions.
‒ the faria report recommends voting on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the maritime transport sector and amending directive 2009/16/ec.
the starting point for the reasons for this text is the commission's wish to fill the gap in the absence of an international agreement setting targets for reducing emissions from the international maritime sector within the framework of the international maritime organization and binding on the member states.
moreover, the objective of reducing carbon dioxide emissions from the maritime sector only requires monitoring and control of emissions, with the possibility of penalties taken by the member state, whereas the very logic of unlimited and intense international trade is a significant cause of pollution.
the text does not respect national sovereignty and is not likely to be effective in reducing air pollution.
‒ in the face of growing concerns about global warming and the depletion of the ozone layer, the union is trying to legislate more to encourage member states to limit and reduce their production of environmentally harmful gases.
on tuesday, the european parliament adopted the regulation on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from the shipping sector, amending the current directive 2009/16/ec.
this proposal, which i supported, aims to control emissions of this gas more closely, while taking account of the realities and constraints of this economic sector.
small vessels, which account for 40% of the sector but less than 10% of emissions, are excluded from this agreement.
‒ i have approved this text on emissions from shipping, which aims to impose the regular deferral, from 2018, of co2 emissions from this sector, which were previously excluded from any reduction target.
the final compromise is coherent, as it provides for the deferral of co2 emissions from the largest shipping companies, which are responsible for 98% of emissions, without being unnecessarily burdensome for the companies concerned.
‒ i have approved the introduction of new rules to monitor co2 emissions from ships from 2018. the legislation covers vessels of more than 5000 gross tonnes, regardless of the country in which they are registered.
shipping is the only transport sector not covered by the eu's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions.
this legislative breakthrough establishes a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying co2 emissions in the shipping sector.
i want to congratulate this initiative but these rules must be applied to the plan for fair competition in the environmental field.
i also regret that some of my liberal colleagues abstained in this important vote on the future of our emissions regulations.
‒ i oppose the desire to impose this agreement on the maritime sector in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions because it does not respect national sovereignty.
moreover, the objective of reducing carbon dioxide with its control measures is in contradiction with the trade system defended by the european union.
this trade based on free trade without any restrictions is incompatible with a desire to reduce emissions, since by definition this kind of trade is "polluting".
what about the ecological footprint linked to gdp growth?
the current exploitation of stocks would be incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield.
firstly, in particular on the current exploitation of stocks which is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield according to the opinion of several scientists.
various scientific studies have established that the intensity of exploitation of the stocks concerned is not sustainable and does not guarantee the renewal of stocks.
i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of a plan which implements the objectives it has set itself, including the management of stocks above maximum sustainable yield.
‒ i chose to abstain on this text because, while it raises a real problem overfishing leading to shortages the plan proposed by the commission is in total contradiction with the objective of maximum sustainable yield.
this report enables the commission to propose targeted mortality targets aimed at regulating the catch rate in accordance with the latest available scientific advice and allowing exploitation of stocks above the maximum sustainable yield.
this puts us on the path to exploiting stocks in a way which respects the baltic sea ecosystem.
the plan must therefore aim at organising a more sustainable fishery in the baltic sea, in order to preserve this important economic sector of the european union in the medium and long term.
this plan, based on the most recent scientific advice, should allow for the sustainable exploitation of stocks, thus guaranteeing livelihoods for fishermen, and i hope that agreement will be reached quickly with the council and the european commission.
the plan should ensure the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and enable the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products.
this situation hinders the sustainable management of these fisheries and does not guarantee the stability of fishing opportunities for fishermen operating in these fisheries.
the plan should ensure the sustainable exploitation of these stocks and ensure the stability of fishing opportunities, while ensuring that management is based on the most up-to-date scientific information regarding interactions within stocks, between stocks and with other elements of the ecosystem and the environment.
the first concerns the current exploitation of stocks, which is incompatible with the objective of maximum sustainable yield according to several scientists.
the management plan takes account of the biological interactions between the three species (caviar being predatory on the other two) and will allow for a more balanced and sustainable management of the stocks.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products.
i welcome the adoption of the amendment calling for the targets to be met by 2015 and at the latest by 2020. however, more needs to be done and global action is needed to maintain the balance of the ecosystem.
the opposition between the interests of fishermen and the ecosystem is artificial and fruitless.
the interests of fishermen lie in the protection of marine resources and the ecosystem and therefore require responsible fishing that respects the rights of fishermen and takes account in particular of smallholders.
‒ the proposal for a regulation aims to phase out discards by introducing a landing obligation from 1 january 2015. the aim of reducing fish discards, although laudable, should not be used as a pretext for adopting an incomplete regulation, particularly on the fate of waste landed by fishermen.
the proposal is intended to improve the management of the marine environment and to improve the quality of fisheries resources.
finally, while i support compulsory landing, i am mindful that it must be accompanied by measures to find outlets for non-marketable catches, to avoid waste, and to control those outlets.
these releases were causing a considerable waste of the resource at a time when the signs of its sustainability are becoming more alarming.
i voted for the cfp when it was adopted with two reservations, one concerning the necessary modernisation of the fleet for obvious reasons of safety at sea and energy efficiency of vessels, the other concerning zero-emission, which i formulated as follows: [...] if the so-called 'zero-remove' measure is intended to increase the selectivity of fishing gear, it must not condemn the sector.
the union must act to protect biodiversity and preserve these endangered species.
through its guidelines and recommendations to member states, the strategy enables the sustainable exploitation and management of europe's forestry resources, which are often poorly and under-exploited and potentially rich in growth and jobs.
it is an important lever for biodiversity and in the fight against global warming.
in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is not for the european union to legislate in this area, as the envi committee admitted in its opinion, although it asked the commission to 'take its lead in promoting a sustainable forestry policy'.
the new strategy does not take into account concrete measures, since, although the "environmental value" is often emphasized, nothing is proposed in this area.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it embodies a subtle blend of the environmental and economic vocation of european forests.
the report also places too much emphasis on the environmental value of the forest at the expense of its economic value, ignoring proposals to defend the sector, particularly the problem of exporting raw wood abroad and importing processed products with higher added value.
the ecological impact of these round trips should also be questioned since they are in contradiction with the environmental value and the desire to reduce greenhouse gases.
moreover, the text emphasizes only the environmental value of forests and neglects the economic value.
moreover, nothing is proposed on the necessary protection at european level against china's aggressive practices and no reflection is made on the carbon impact of these exports and re-imports.
it is undeniable that we need a european strategy in this area for all the security and environmental aspects.
on the one hand, it is argued that the primary objective is the environmental aspect, but on the other hand, it is refused to consider what measures could be taken to curb the massive import of chinese products, especially wood, while these imports are causing the environmental cost to explode!
the european union, through its policies on the environment, agriculture or rural development, can have an influence on the forestry sector hence the need for a european strategy on this subject.
‒ with the vote on the report on a new eu strategy for forests, the forestry sector and the wood industry, the european parliament calls on the member states to work towards sustainable forest management, to promote the efficient use of their raw materials and to increase the competitiveness of the forestry industry, which provides many jobs.
forests play an important role in the protection of biodiversity.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of sustainable forest management and ensures better coordination and communication of eu policies related to forestry.
it is an important lever for biodiversity and in the fight against global warming.
first of all, because it is not for the european union to regulate in this area, as the envi committee admitted in its opinion, although it asked the commission to 'take its leading role in promoting a sustainable forestry policy'.
moreover, the new strategy makes little provision for concrete measures, since, although 'environmental value' is often emphasised, nothing is proposed in this area.
we export our bulk of noble essences to china and then reimport the processed products, at the cost of our jobs and an ecological disaster in terms of flows.
i therefore welcome the commission's emphasis on sustainable management and efficient use of forest resources and support for the forest industry as a driver of competitiveness, growth and jobs.
such a strategy will strengthen the preservation of our forests and consolidate the economic, social and environmental benefits of the forestry sector.
first of all, because it is not for the european union to legislate on this matter, as the envi committee admitted in its opinion, although it asked the commission to 'take its leading role in promoting a sustainable forestry policy'.
moreover, the new strategy makes little provision for concrete measures, since, although 'environmental value' is often emphasised, nothing is proposed in this area.
the adopted text stresses that the strategy must focus on the sustainable management of forests, but also highlights their role from an economic and social point of view.
the strategy emphasises the key role of sustainable wood production and use in promoting sustainable business models and encouraging the creation of green jobs.
the strategy will also emphasise the need for sustainable forest management.
but the commission is looking at this issue mainly from the environmental angle, which is important but will not solve the crisis in the sector.
and even though it has sustainable development objectives it allows for short-term exploitation of the forest via short-rotation forestry .
in the face of such a narrow view of forestry issues that ignores the issues of biodiversity, the impact on agriculture and employment, i abstain.
first of all, because it is not for the european union to legislate on this matter, as the envi committee admitted in its opinion, although it asked the commission to 'take its leading role in promoting a sustainable forestry policy'.
moreover, the new strategy makes little provision for concrete measures, since, although 'environmental value' is often emphasised, nothing is proposed in this area.
the report focuses too much on the ecological value of the forest and neglects the economic aspect it can represent.
since the report praises the ecological value of the forest, it would also be appropriate to recall the disastrous impact of such a globalised production process on the environment.
this strategy recognises the competence of member states in forest management (principle of subsidiarity) and focuses on strengthening cooperation between member states to deal with transnational challenges such as fires, climate change, natural disasters or invasive alien species.
this own-initiative report aims to put forests and the forestry sector at the heart of the shift towards a green economy and to appreciate the value of the benefits that forests can provide in a sustainable way, while ensuring their protection.
it covers areas such as rural development, bioenergy, climate change, ecosystems and biodiversity, forest knowledge, innovation and governance.
the current eu strategy dates from 1998, and a new european framework is needed for forests, which are facing new challenges from environmental, societal and political changes.
the european timber sector is thus subject to unfair competition, partly because of china's protectionist policies, and the ecological cost of these round trips does not seem to be a matter of concern to the commission, despite the interest it claims to have in protecting the environment.
it emphasises forest management, sustainable development, the intelligent and respectful use of forest raw materials and the exploitation of the economic potential of forest areas.
we highlight the three areas of work which we believe will be essential for the coming years in this sector: the prevention of fires and natural disasters, the fight against climate change, and the sustainable management of forest raw materials (wood, cork, textile fibres).
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out parliament's priorities for promoting sustainable forest management and the competitiveness of the forestry industry.
forests cover more than 40% of the eu's territory, and wood is a natural, renewable, reusable and recyclable raw material.
forests play an economic, social and environmental role and account for 3.5 million jobs.
but the commission is looking at this issue mainly from the environmental angle, which is important but will not solve the crisis in the sector.
in the face of increasing threats to forests due to climate change, loss of biodiversity, urban sprawl, and the growing demand for bio-based products, including those derived from forests and wood, the eu forest strategy needs to be revised to ensure sustainable forest management.
in its resolution, the european parliament proposes a renewed framework which reaffirms the imperative of sustainable forest management ensuring the maintenance of biodiversity and ecosystems while allowing for multifunctional use of forests, the development of the wood sector and the production of materials for the development of new products and materials.
that is why, if the text remains unchanged, the ecological group would be forced to vote against it.
we support this proposal which will allow the commission to release €1 billion to ensure a rapid ramp-up of the youth employment initiative from 2015. however, much remains to be done: for sustainable economic development capable of providing quality employment for our fellow citizens.
the role of whistleblowers and journalists is vital in tax justice, environmental and labour law.
but i believe that the protection of whistleblowers must be comprehensive and also cover cases of corruption in the broad sense, especially by political leaders, or breaches of labour or environmental regulations.
unfortunately, this policy is only a palliative and not sustainable, since the eu does not tackle the fundamental problem of austerity and ultraliberal policies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
allowing new countries to join in the current economic climate is not a good measure.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
these technocratic procedures of 'codification' are not only undemocratic but also prevent europe from practicing the solidarity-based protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
this climate is widely revealed by the press.
the text allows the commission to declare that certain aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, environmental protection, broadband infrastructure, employment and sport, and regional aid are compatible with the internal market and are not subject to the notification requirement.
however, i objected to paragraph 50 of the resolution, which states that 'in order to generate sustainable savings in the union budget, it is imperative that parliament and the council establish a roadmap for a single seat, the need for which has been stressed by parliament in several of its previous resolutions'.
i am, however, strongly opposed to the amendment which recalls that considerable savings could be achieved by providing parliament with a single seat and the paragraph which stresses that, in order to generate sustainable savings in the union budget, it is imperative that parliament and the council draw up a roadmap for a single seat, the need for which has been underlined by parliament in several of its previous resolutions; other these two formulations are yet another unacceptable attack on strasbourg, which is the sole seat of the european parliament, an attack on the history of european integration, and on the symbol of reconciliation that the alsatian city represents.
the european parliament proposes to give a discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) helps to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market.
‒ the european parliament proposes to give a discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) helps to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market.
not only does this report assess a 2013 discharge, which is too late, but these agencies also seem to be characterized by redundancy of missions and chronic waste.
the european parliament proposes to give a discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013, and i have decided to vote against it.
the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) helps to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market.
this report provides for the discharge to be given to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. the objective of acer is to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market.
energy policy should not be a matter for the union, but it is for the member states to decide their energy policy.
‒ the report recommends that the discharge be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013. the agency contributes in particular to ensuring the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market.
‒ i refused to vote on the discharge to be given to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. the successful fulfilment of its main mission - to assist national regulatory authorities in their regulatory activity at european level and to coordinate their actions - is jeopardised by the fact that no agreement has been reached on the contributions to the agency of the member states of the european free trade association.
i voted in favour of granting discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
‒ the european parliament proposes to give a discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) helps to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market.
‒ the european parliament proposes to give the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 and i have decided to vote against it.
the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) helps to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
as the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) is only one component of the european budget for 2013, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
this report proposes to grant the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. the objective of acer is to ensure the proper functioning of the european gas and electricity market.
i believe that energy policy should not be a matter for the union, especially when it is subject to economic objectives, such as deregulation of the sector on the american model, but also geopolitical ones.
it is up to the member states to decide their energy policy.
‒ i voted in favour of this text on the 2013 discharge for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer), a procedure which allows members to validate the implementation of the agency's budget.
the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account subsequent recommendations, it should continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
as energy issues are now at the centre of the union's and the juncker commission's concerns, it is important to support the european bodies dealing with energy issues.
in addition, one of the reasons for the existence of the agency is the monitoring and implementation of reach (regulation adopted to better protect human health and the environment against the risks related to chemical substances), and the court has noted a worrying number of non-compliant files and the agency's refusal to act when necessary.
as regards reach (the regulation to improve the protection of human health and the environment against the risks arising from chemical substances), i am concerned that there is a high rate of non-compliant dossiers and that the agency does not stigmatise companies which do not comply with their obligations.
i voted against this report calls for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 the court of auditors has emphasised that on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are rare and considers that they should therefore be strengthened.
‒ i opposed this report which seeks to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors has pointed out that on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are rare and that the agency's choices for its beneficiaries were questionable.
‒ this report proposes to grant discharge to the european environment agency for the financial year 2013. the agency, which is responsible for providing reliable and independent information on the state of the environment and for helping the union and its member states to take informed decisions to improve the environment and to integrate environmental and sustainable considerations into european policies, received a contribution of eur 34.886 million in 2013. according to the european court of auditors, the commission's budget implementation rate is satisfactory at 98.66% in commitment appropriations and 88.92% in payment appropriations.
‒ i voted against this report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 the court of auditors has emphasised that on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are rare and considers that they should therefore be strengthened.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the european environment agency (eea) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ i voted against this report calls for discharge to be given on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 the court of auditors has emphasised that on-the-spot checks of costs at beneficiaries are rare and considers that they should therefore be strengthened.
‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 i voted against because the court of auditors has stressed that on-the-spot checks of beneficiaries' costs are rare and that the agency should improve the level of its checks to ensure the eligibility of beneficiaries.
the budget for the european environment agency (eea) is only one component of the european budget for 2013 which i opposed, so i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
this report proposes to grant discharge to the european environment agency for its 2013 budget.
‒ i voted in favour of this text on the discharge for the 2013 budget for the european environment agency.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european environment agency (eea), a procedure which allows meps to validate the implementation of the agency's budget.
the european environment agency has demonstrated sound financial management and, taking into account the subsequent recommendations, it must continue its efforts in areas where improvements can be made.
‒ environmental protection is one of the main priorities of the european union and the new commission.
i therefore voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
the agency did not answer the question on cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness as regards the workspace.
however, enisa has not addressed the question of cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness in relation to the workspace since the staff split between heraklion and athens.
the agency did not answer the question on cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness as regards the workspace.
the agency did not answer the question on cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness as regards the workspace.
the agency did not answer the question on cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness as regards the workspace.
the agency did not answer the question on cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness as regards the workspace.
‒ in the current post-crisis environment, esma has a key role to play.
‒ at a time when europe is becoming increasingly energy dependent, there is a need to support european bodies active in this field.
artemis, which was supposed to strengthen the union's competitiveness and enable new markets to emerge, found itself, above all, only executing 69% of its payment appropriations, even though the execution rate of operational commitment appropriations reached 99.4%: a veritable waste machine.
‒ the clean sky project is now a leading european project in the aeronautics and environmental sectors.
i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors regrets that the joint undertaking did not report on the projects already completed and the social, economic or environmental benefits they have brought.
‒ i voted against this report calling for discharge on the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. no report on the projects already completed has been submitted by the company, which contributes to the lack of visibility of its activities in terms of social, environmental or even economic benefits.
‒ i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the joint undertaking fuel cells and hydrogen for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors regrets that the joint undertaking did not report on the projects already completed and the social, economic or environmental benefits they have brought.
‒ i voted against this report calling for the discharge to be given on the implementation of the joint undertaking fuel cells and hydrogen for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors regrets that the joint undertaking did not report on the projects already completed and the social, economic or environmental benefits they have brought.
‒ the report calls for discharge to be given to the execution of the joint undertaking fuel cells and hydrogen for the financial year 2013. i voted against because the court of auditors regrets that the joint undertaking has not reported on the projects already completed and the social, economic or environmental benefits they have brought.
this joint undertaking is not able to report on the projects it has completed: this prevents us from assessing the viability of these projects and their social, economic or environmental impact, and we therefore do not know how european citizens' money is used.
the report calls for the postponement of its decision on the discharge to be given to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
‒ the report on the discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013 recommends that its decision on the discharge to the director of the joint undertaking be postponed.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for the postponement of the decision on the discharge to be given to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. the joint undertaking did not bother to submit its financial statements or the state of progress of its work in progress.
like the majority of members, i voted against the decision to postpone the discharge for the financial year 2013. with this vote, i wanted to show my support for this joint venture, which is part of an ambitious intergovernmental project on nuclear energy.
we are talking about an international project which is to demonstrate the scientific and technological feasibility of fusion energy, and thus pave the way for its industrial and commercial exploitation.
the ultimate goal is to solve our planet's growing energy needs and to solve the problem of fossil fuel use.
‒ the report calls for a postponement of its decision on the discharge to be given to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. the joint undertaking did not specify in its financial statements the degree of progress of the work in progress.
‒ the report calls for the postponement of its decision on the discharge to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ the report on the discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013 recommends that its decision on the discharge to the director of the joint undertaking be postponed.
this report calls for the postponement of the decision on the discharge to be given to the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. the national front meps ask that the joint undertaking submit to the discharge authority a report describing the stage reached in the implementation of the project, the difficulties encountered, the financial risks as an increase in costs of 32% compared to the initial estimate has been noted.
the report calls for the postponement of its decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013. the ambitious nuclear research project is very expensive.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013. the company, which experienced a serious management crisis last year, is recovering.
‒ i voted against the postponement of the discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
the joint undertaking has made a real effort to correct its budget and initiatives in favour of energy research should be encouraged.
i therefore voted in favour of closing the financial year of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for 2013. this procedure is necessary for the proper functioning of the european institutions and ensures transparency for the citizens of the union in the management of the funds entrusted to them.
the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013 recommends that its decision on the discharge be deferred to the director of the joint undertaking.
‒ i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the year 2013, contrary to the negative opinion of the committee on budgetary control.
‒ i voted against the draft report, which called for the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy to be deferred to the financial year 2013. iter, the international experimental thermonuclear reactor, is a project to demonstrate the feasibility of nuclear fusion.
despite the crisis in management experienced by the project last year, the recovery is under way and i wish to renew my confidence and support for this unique research project, which is essential for the union's energy future.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the european investment bank, to be effective, must operate in a completely new economic environment where the european union and its policies no longer have a place.
there will be no sustainable investment if the european union sticks to a policy that has deindustrialised the continent and demoralized entrepreneurs.
madam president, 'feeding the planet, energy for life' is the theme of the milan world fair, and i welcome it.
beyond ensuring that all europeans have access to healthy, quality food, accessible to all and meeting sustainability challenges, the european union must contribute to the food balances of the rest of the world.
the fight against food waste must also be one of our major objectives.
it is also an ecological threat (in view of the number of species involved), economic (small farms, as well as larger ones, which grow vines, olive trees, etc., are affected) and social.
this shows the economic and ecological damage caused by the globalisation and ultra-liberalism promoted by brussels.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
the french national assembly has adopted a groundbreaking bill that requires transnational companies to have a vigilance plan for their subsidiaries and subcontractors to prevent human rights and environmental abuses, fight corruption and repair damage to victims.
‒ following the collapse of the rana plaza building in bangladesh, which killed 1100 people and injured 2500 others, this proposal aims to update the sustainability pact launched by the government of bangladesh, the ilo and the commission on 8 july 2013. the pact aims to improve the health, safety and working conditions of workers in the ready-to-wear sector.
the collapse of this building and the number of victims are obviously deplorable, but it is high time that the union stopped covering its face with good feelings and angelic resolutions, even though it is partly responsible for this type of situation by having promoted global free trade and rejected intelligent protectionism to put pressure on countries that do not respect social, environmental and fiscal standards.
nevertheless, in view of this tragedy, i voted in favour of this text and the sustainability pact.
some measures have been put in place through the sustainability pact to improve the working conditions of employees in textile companies.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which commemorates the collapse of the rana plaza building and takes stock of the progress of the sustainability pact.
‒ following the collapse of the rana plaza building in bangladesh, which killed 1100 people and injured 2500 others, this proposal aims to update the sustainability pact launched by the government of bangladesh, the ilo and the commission on 8 july 2013. the pact aims to improve the health, safety and working conditions of workers in the ready-to-wear sector.
‒ following the collapse of the rana plaza building in bangladesh, which killed 1100 people and injured 2500 others, this proposal aims to update the sustainability pact launched by the government of bangladesh, the ilo and the commission on 8 july 2013. the pact aims to improve the health, safety and working conditions of workers in the ready-to-wear sector.
‒ the second anniversary resolution of the rana plaza building collapse looks at the state of play of the sustainability pact that followed.
it is high time to propose, in addition to this 'sustainability pact for bangladesh', a sensible protectionism to put pressure on countries which do not respect certain standards and which play on social dumping.
‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution on wednesday 29 april to commemorate the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse in bangladesh and to take a position on the state of play of the sustainability pact.
the european union, in cooperation with the government of bangladesh, the united states and the ilo, launched the sustainability compact on 8 july 2013, in which bangladesh committed to take action to improve standards and working conditions in the ready-to-wear sector.
however, we are still far from the objectives set out in the sustainability pact and it is essential that bangladesh continues its work on labour law reform and that the european union and businesses maintain their commitment; i have therefore supported this resolution.
and then there's the issue of climate migrants.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
i voted for this resolution to express my concern about the deteriorating situation in the maldives, a small country which would need the unity of all democratic forces to face the threats to it due to the rising waters resulting from climate change which are likely to submerge most of these islands.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
considering that this institution is one of the cornerstones of the juncker plan, since it should contribute up to eur 16 billion to the revival of investment in energy and climate, infrastructure, research and innovation and employment, it should be given all the necessary political support in its difficult task.
it finances projects which have no connection with the needs of the ecological transition and which do not meet social criteria.
to be effective, the eib must operate in a completely re-engineered economic environment where the union and its policies no longer have a place.
there will be no sustainable investment if the union sticks to a policy that has deindustrialised the continent and demoralized entrepreneurs.
in the current difficult economic environment, the eib's involvement helps maintain social cohesion by stimulating job creation and infrastructure.
‒ the european investment bank (eib) is a european financial institution that finances projects in europe and in third countries in the fields of infrastructure, energy, research and innovation, etc.
the report also laments that half of the member states will not achieve their national targets for education and reducing greenhouse gases by 2020. and it's worse for jobs and poverty.
it aims to promote a reliable and sustainable agricultural sector throughout the union, a prosperous and diversified rural economy, a clean environment and family farms supported by a dynamic, fairer, internationally sustainable and properly financed common agricultural policy .
‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it will be an opportunity to feed the debate needed for the sustainability of our planet.
the resolution aims to improve food security, combat waste, develop agriculture in the third world and protect soils.
the theme of this exhibition is "feeding the planet, energy for life".
‒ i had to vote against this motion for a resolution because, while it is full of good intentions - namely to feed the planet while protecting the climate - the solutions and measures proposed evade the real issues and the solutions advocated tend towards the most complete unrealism.
it's a public health issue, but it's also an economic, environmental and geopolitical challenge, for today, but also for future generations.
the challenge is to meet the doubling of food requirements by 2050 in a context of water scarcity, a decline in arable land and a new energy situation dictated by the fight against climate change.
it aims to promote a reliable and sustainable agricultural sector throughout the union, a prosperous and diversified rural economy, a clean environment and family farms supported by a dynamic, fairer, internationally sustainable and properly financed common agricultural policy .
it aims to promote a reliable and sustainable agricultural sector throughout the union, a prosperous and diversified rural economy, a clean environment and family farms supported by a dynamic, fairer, internationally sustainable and properly financed common agricultural policy .
‒ in 2015, the world expo on the theme 'feeding the planet, energy for life' will be held in milan.
the resolution aims to strengthen food security, combat waste, develop agriculture in the third world and protect soils.
‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the milan 2015 world expo, whose theme is 'feeding the planet, energy for life'.
according to the fao, 898 million people worldwide are undernourished, while waste is still high in industrialized countries.
the resolution calls for action to improve food security in developing countries and asks the commission to set binding targets for member states to combat waste throughout the food supply chain.
‒ on the occasion of the opening of the 2015 world expo in milan, whose theme is 'feeding the planet, energy for life', meps wanted to comment on the importance of this year's theme.
these issues also raise environmental and health issues and invite new ideas from member states and european and international bodies.
‒ i voted in favour of our resolution on the holding of the milan world fair 'feeding the planet, energy for life'.
the year 2016 should be designated as the 'european year against food waste' and member states should be called upon to take action to reduce this scourge.
‒ at the milan world expo 'feeding the planet, energy for life', the european parliament wanted to give its views on food security.
we also affirm the need to tackle food waste throughout the agri-food supply chain by setting ambitious, clearly defined and binding targets.
moreover, the volatility of food market prices poses both serious food security problems, which can have considerable geopolitical implications, and problems of sustainability of jobs and income from the activity.
fisheries, like agriculture, must be based on sustainability, both for the preservation of natural resources and for the health of the people it feeds.
also mentioned are recent elections, which went rather well, as well as problems related to pollution, gender equality and anti-gay laws.
i think that our legislation and our approach can serve as a model and that at the international level, at the un, we will have to agree on the question of natural resources, which belong to the planet, to the people of the countries and which must therefore be taken into account in a sustainable way.
mr president, commissioner, it is urgent to use the weapons of human and environmental law against the most opaque and dirtiest trade in the world, based on the over-exploitation of human beings and the subsoil and on the plundering of the wealth of regions in africa, such as the great lakes, which is accompanied by criminal extortions against the populations that this trade encourages and finances.
we need a binding and binding mechanism with ethical, social, moral and environmental standards.
the trade in these minerals is known to cause serious conflicts over control of their exploitation and causes considerable environmental damage.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
these non-democratic technocratic procedures prevent europe from practicing the solidarity protectionism which is the ecological and social emergency of our time.
they have no democratic legitimacy and are a waste of money and unnecessary expenditure for the european taxpayer.
at all levels, local, national, european, economic and social (and sometimes environmental) councils are illegitimate and irresponsible institutions that cost a fortune and do not defend the public interest.
‒ at all levels, local, national, european, economic and social (and sometimes environmental) councils are illegitimate and irresponsible institutions that cost a fortune and do not defend the public interest.
i denounce the waste of public money in the operation of this committee and have therefore voted against this text.
the oda is essential to implement a european development policy and thus convince the countries of the south to fight against global warming in preparation for cop 21. the report notes the failure of eu member states to meet their 2005 commitments to spend 0.7% of their national income on oda by 2015 and calls for multiannual budgetary timetables by 2020 to meet this target.
‒ in the run-up to the third international conference on post-2015 financing for development and the un sustainable development goals, to be held in addis ababa in july, this report calls for an ambitious partnership to ensure credible financing for the new development goals.
i would like to remind you, however, that our development aid policy must be coordinated ever more closely with our migration policy, our agricultural policy and also our environmental policy.
the union should therefore promote ambitious sustainable development goals, taking into account new global challenges, while ensuring its financial commitment in this area.
these domestic resources, which are more predictable and more sustainable than foreign aid, must be a major source of financing for the development of these countries.
the resolution underlines the european parliament's wish that the european union should assert its political leadership in the process of defining the framework for sustainable development and that it should maintain its position as the world's leading contributor to international development aid.
‒ the report on financing for development highlights the need to combat poverty and to support the un sustainable development goals.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on financing for development, which calls for an ambitious global partnership as a condition for achieving the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
this report sets out a european union position for the international conference on financing for development, to be held in ethiopia in july 2015, which aims to prepare the post-2015 sustainable development agenda.
overall, we support the proposals made by the commission in its communication on the global partnership for poverty eradication and sustainable development after 2015 in the context of the international conference on financing for development.
we also call for the coordination of development aid with the fight against climate change.
‒ 2015 is a unique year for international negotiations on development and sustainable development (3rd international conference on financing for development in july, adoption of the new international sustainable development goals in september, and cop 21 in december).
there will be no binding and ambitious climate agreement in paris without strong commitments from developed countries on climate change.
d. there is a consensus that investment will be the key to convincing the countries of the south to play their full part in the fight against global warming e. other
in writing.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i pay particular attention to the risks involved.
in this context, we therefore wanted to stress the need to address the growing resistance to human and veterinary antibiotics, but also to promote pharmaceutical and medical innovation, in order to improve patient safety in the european union in a timely and sustainable manner.
economic growth and respect for environmental standards are not inseparable.
‒ this report builds on the european commission's green action plan for smes and aims to encourage european businesses to take greater advantage of opportunities arising from various sectors, such as renewable energy sources, and in particular the cost-effective exploitation of wind, solar, hydropower and geothermal energy, energy efficiency, resource efficiency, waste management, emission reduction, electrification and recycling.
this is primarily due to a common political commitment embodied in the energy-climate package.
‒ green growth sectors have tremendous economic and environmental benefits for smes in the european union and are set to grow significantly in the coming years.
we therefore rejected this report, whose ideological approach is that legislation is the main obstacle to growth, and that deregulation - the dismantling of european social and environmental standards - can be beneficial to european citizens and smes.
we agree that in order to achieve a union that offers good standards of social and environmental protection, if a legislative framework is needed in this area, it must apply to all.
we therefore rejected this report, whose ideological approach is that legislation is the main obstacle to growth, or that deregulation - the dismantling of european social and environmental standards - can be beneficial to european citizens and smes.
we must achieve high standards of social and environmental protection.
they are usually aimed at weakening social and even environmental standards, which would be particularly inappropriate in a so-called green economy.
the report calls on the commission to support as much as possible, through the budget of the horizon 2020 programme, european smes that are involved in environmental sustainability, which is a real driver of growth.
while some of them can be supported, others are more in line with the competence of the member states, such as the proposals on education or environmental regulations.
it shows the potential of the environmental sector and also supports the circular economy.
while some of them can be supported, others are more in line with the competence of the member states, such as the proposals on education or environmental regulations.
the sustainable growth model of green growth has enormous potential for international markets, and european smes must be given access to them.
the green growth initiative report for smes clearly identifies the problems facing smes, including difficult access to finance, access to research and development funds, competitive pressure and environmental sector challenges.
‒ today, economic activities are increasingly affected by new environmental concerns.
it is important to support the green growth of smes and to identify opportunities to combine competitiveness of smes with environmental protection.
the text stresses the importance of giving priority to energy efficiency and of informing companies more about the various european projects and financing.
it should be remembered that the eu is the world leader in the import and export of environmental products.
european programmes and funds must be in line with the eu's climate strategies and, more generally, with its environmental policies, without creating additional administrative burdens.
the eu needs to review its entrepreneurial culture in order to encourage business creation, particularly in the field of sustainable development.
we must provide sustainable financing and support solutions for the socially and ecologically responsible development of smes.
green growth is an ideological garment that fails to respond to the social and environmental challenges of today.
in the face of these dramatic developments, the european union and its member states have a dual duty to act: to protect themselves and to act in our environment to reduce instability.
in this context, the common security and defence policy could and should be a major instrument for europe to finally assume its responsibilities for its own security and that of its environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the free movement of capital and persons and the freedom of establishment in the 27 countries have created a legal environment favourable to the development of these criminal activities.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ the motion for a resolution deals with the prohibition of cadmium, a heavy metal which is dangerous to consumer health and the environment.
cadmium, which has recognised harmful effects on health and the environment, is already excluded from the manufacture of displays by two of the largest distributors on the market, samsung and nanoco, which have replaced it with 'quantum boxes', nanostructures of semiconductors without cadmium; only large american companies continue to endanger consumers by continuing to use cadmium.
cadmium is a risk to both the environment and health.
‒ cadmium is a heavy metal, dangerous to health and the environment; it's banned in many applications.
cadmium is a heavy metal and is particularly harmful to public health and the environment.
the resolution aims to ban cadmium, a heavy metal which is hazardous to health and the environment.
this heavy metal is hazardous to health and the environment and is banned in most products except for a few tv screens, especially led screens, and for lighting.
‒ this resolution, tabled by the greens/s&d/eug, deals with the ban on cadmium, a heavy metal which is dangerous to health and the environment.
‒ i have chosen to support this resolution which is in line with the will and interests of our farmers, while preserving biodiversity.
furthermore, while the use of ethanol reduces carbon dioxide emissions, its production requires agricultural resources that can be used for livestock and human food.
the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not distorted by the use of nuclear energy, and calls on the commission to take all necessary measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not distorted by the use of nuclear energy.
the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not distorted by the use of nuclear energy, and calls on the commission to take all necessary measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not distorted by the use of nuclear energy.
the joint motion for a resolution proposes to limit imports in this area, which seems to be the most realistic and effective solution, since the grubbing-up solution has shown its limits and the use of pesticides raises many food safety and environmental issues.
on the one hand, the olive tree epidemic is an environmental concern, particularly for france and italy.
it is already causing significant damage in puglia, italy, and could have far-reaching economic, environmental and social consequences.
this phenomenon has serious environmental, social and economic consequences, with losses in agricultural production and in activities related to heritage or culture.
in addition, the excessive and unreasonable use of pesticides is a danger to biodiversity, human and animal health.
monitoring and containment measures and appropriate farming practices are better suited to preserve and protect territories and biodiversity and thus to provide a sustainable environmental response.
renewable energy, insulation.
because all these markets are solid, sustainable and non-relocatable markets.
it is therefore urgent to move beyond the words and jargon used for more than 30 years in this institution and to move towards action: let us ease the european constraints on states and businesses, especially smes and small businesses; let us free up the regulatory constraints on vocational training and employment; let us remove the brakes on entrepreneurship and energy.
we cannot build a modern europe, a strong economy or sustainable development with austerity and social breakdown everywhere.
the growth you're talking about is the growth of the capital market against labor and the environment, which can prepare for another financial crash.
to avoid this, we must abandon austerity and invest heavily in training and education, skilled employment, innovation and research, and in the development of services that contribute to human and ecological development.
i will convey the substance and climate of the current discussion to my dear colleague arias cañete, who is responsible for energy.
it is a realistic constant of the gradual deterioration of the security environment in the neighbourhood in southern and eastern europe, in a context of the us refocusing on asia and unconcerted cuts in national defence budgets.
the report aims to relaunch cooperation between member states in the field of foreign and defence policy, in particular in view of the international environment and new threats such as cybersecurity, organised crime and terrorism.
the security environment in the european union and its neighbours to the east and south has reached a level of instability which must require the union to become a decisive and united actor.
this resolution, drafted by my colleague, ump arnaud danjean, calls on the european union and its member states to assume more responsibilities immediately in the framework of the common security and defence policy, which must become a major instrument for ensuring the security of the european union and its environment, in the current context of unprecedented instability on the eu's borders.
the many crises and threats facing europe today call into question the means that the european union deploys for its own security and that of its environment.
in particular, the common security and defence policy should enable the union to respond in a more coordinated way and to try to act in a sustainable way.
the global environment is becoming more and more unstable.
given the current geopolitical context, with the increase in crises and conflicts, it is necessary and urgent for the european union to act to ensure its protection and the stability of its environment.
the report highlights the deterioration of the security environment (us rebalancing in asia, the middle east, ukraine) and the emergence of 'new threats' such as cybersecurity, organised crime and terrorism.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
none of the questions that the un secretary-general proposes to consider - immigration, sustainable development, health, development aid - can be answered by the logic of the blocs.
the 41st g7 summit should help to find an international consensus on development and environmental protection policies.
the summit is expected to prepare for the next two un conferences, the paris climate summit (cop 21) and the post-2015 development agenda summit.
the european socialists stressed that economic growth was in no way incompatible with environmental protection.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i believe that a major attention should be paid to dietary changes affecting children.
i think it is particularly important to provide children with meals made from organically farmed products and fish from sustainable fisheries.
the report also calls for the adoption of a european strategy for the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
it would then offer the european union a budgetary weapon to respond to a crisis that could hit a sector already very weakened by the russian embargo and the uncertainties of the climate and stock markets.
on the one hand, they encourage farmers to use better practices for the environment and consumer health.
there is a 'green payment', or greening, which aims to reward specific actions in favour of the environment, by improving the environmental performance of agriculture in terms of biodiversity, protection of water resources and the fight against climate change.
on the one hand, they encourage farmers to use better practices for the environment and consumer health.
there is a 'green payment', or greening, which aims to reward specific actions in favour of the environment, by improving the environmental performance of agriculture in terms of biodiversity, protection of water resources and the fight against climate change.
the protection of intellectual property rights is a condition for the future of our european enterprises, the sustainability of our know-how and the sustainability of our jobs.
as such, the fight against commercial counterfeiting of copyrighted content must be at the heart of our concerns and involve all actors in the digital ecosystem.
iprs help to maintain high standards of consumer, public health and environmental protection in the internal market.
by voting overwhelmingly in favour of this report, which was entrusted to my colleague from the epp, pavel svoboda, we asked the european commission and the member states to put in place a comprehensive legal framework adapted to the digital environment, to combat infringements of intellectual property rights (ipr) more effectively within the european union.
however, we will remain vigilant to ensure that the commission's proposal does not impede competition and supports creativity and innovation by ensuring a safe, adequate and secure environment for inventors and creators.
madam president, we all agree that we must change our ways of life to protect the environment, but once again the countries of the european union are the good students who are sacrificing.
every euro that is not invested in our industrial economy to produce here what we need is a euro that finances globalisation, pollution and, consequently, the production of co2.
they say they want to reduce their carbon footprint by 26%, but an american will still pollute five times more than a frenchman, for example.
how can we still negotiate a free trade agreement with the united states and at the same time claim to want to reduce pollution?
it seems that the ultimate objective is not to save the climate or the planet, but to disarm the european economies completely.
to meet this climate challenge, therefore, we need to change paradigms, change models and challenge the sacrosanct rules of the wto.
in conclusion, let us embrace smart and ecological protectionism that preserves our local economies, our jobs and our climate.
a little while ago, there was a debate on climate change: we need to reduce greenhouse gases.
and you have just said that each state must retain its energy sovereignty and that the exploitation of shale gas must be encouraged.
explain to me, how can we reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and our fossil fuel consumption, and at the same time address the problem of climate change and achieve the goals of cop21?
the report by mr saudargas is thus, first and foremost, an indictment of russia, a political report which has little regard for the economic and ecological imperatives of our energy security.
biomethane, which is produced by the methanation of organic matter such as waste from the food industry or sewage sludge, has many advantages.
this is indeed a job-creating and non-localizable energy.
even better, if it is decentralised at the point where the waste is generated, its production contributes to the development of our rural areas.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a seven-year-old child would understand that the energy market cannot be an open and competitive market and that it is part of the natural state monopolies for energy security.
so why is this house in favour of liberalising the energy sector?
why did you choose energy insecurity?
finally, to obey the united states, and therefore to make war on russia, to go from energy security with russia to energy insecurity without russia.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it took a major crisis with russia for us to finally have a serious debate on the european energy security strategy.
the first is our energy dependence.
we import more than half of the energy we use, which costs us about $400 billion a year - more than a billion a day!
the second challenge is climate change.
we are also talking about nuclear energy, but we will be dependent on uranium supplies, since we are not independent in this respect, and we will also be dependent on the russians in relation to rosatom.
the solution is therefore to develop renewable energy sources, which are part of european sovereignty and contribute to energy efficiency.
madam president, the overall energy strategy outlined in the saudargas report is rather in the right direction.
the latter echoes the objectives of the delvaux report, which proposes three binding guidelines: a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, 30% renewable energy and 40% efficiency gains.
this is why many of us believe that the use of hydraulic fracturing - a technology that is poorly understood in europe - poses risks and harmful effects on the climate, the environment and public health.
we have the means, if we are willing, to support energy policies that are favourable to employment and the preservation of the planet.
‒ the kyoto protocol set targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions as part of a binding legal framework.
‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation because the doha amendment introduces a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, until 31 december 2020. it thus reiterates the legally binding emission reduction commitments, whereby the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual ghg emissions over the period 2013-2020 to 80% of their emissions for the base year (1990 in most cases).
‒ i supported the report by elisabetta gardini on the draft council decision on the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and on the joint implementation of the commitments arising therefrom.
the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and will end on 31 december 2020. the amendment also provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments for the union, its member states and iceland: limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of those emitted in the base year, 1990. i voted for this motion because we must send a strong signal to the paris conference on cop 21 to fight climate change at international level.
as a continuation of the kyoto agreements signed in 1997, the doha amendment aims to open a second commitment period of the protocol, extending from january 2013 to december 2020. these are greenhouse gas emission reduction targets within a legally binding framework.
‒ following the kyoto agreements signed in 1997, the doha amendment is to open a second commitment period from january 2013 to december 2020. these are greenhouse gas emission reduction targets within a legally binding framework.
so how can we effectively combat greenhouse gases if those who are largely responsible for them do not join the effort?
‒ the big climate conference in paris is scheduled for december.
it is more necessary than ever to take responsibility for global warming.
it legally obliges developed countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by at least 18% by 2020. i voted in favour of this report.
‒ i voted against this text, which recognises the enormous equality between the efforts made by member states to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and those of the most polluting countries which have been left out or exempted under the doha amendment.
firstly, although it is clear that countries such as the united states and canada are the main polluters, they have chosen to depart from the doha framework, while the emerging industrializing countries, which are themselves likely to emit more greenhouse gases, are not included in the annexes to the amendment.
the kyoto protocol, which entered into force in 2005, contains binding reduction targets for 2008 to 2012. in december 2012, the doha conference adopted an amendment establishing a second commitment period from january 2013 to december 2020. under this amendment, the european union, its member states and iceland commit themselves to limit their average greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of the 1990 baseline.
it establishes a second commitment period (2013-2020) of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, with legally binding targets.
we call on the member states to do their utmost to ratify this amendment before the third quarter of 2015. the european union will thus be able to defend higher ambitions for the fight against climate change at the paris conference in december.
the european union, its member states and iceland thus commit to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% for the base year (1990 in most cases) over the period 2013-2020. this amendment to the protocol is a strong signal from the european union for the cop21 in paris next december.
‒ i voted against the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and on the joint implementation of the commitments arising therefrom.
so how can we effectively combat greenhouse gases if those who are largely responsible for them do not join the effort?
‒ i have decided to vote against this text on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and on the joint implementation of the commitments arising therefrom.
the kyoto protocol set greenhouse gas emission reduction targets as part of a legally binding framework.
‒ following on from the kyoto agreements signed in 1997, the doha amendment aims to open a second commitment period of the protocol, extending from january 2013 to december 2020. these are greenhouse gas emission reduction targets within a legally binding framework.
have not joined them; - emerging countries are not included in annex 1 which sets the list of countries subject to reduction targets, while emerging economies are on track to emit more greenhouse gases than oecd countries in the medium term.
the fight against greenhouse gas emissions and the energy transition require above all monetary sovereignty and intelligent economic protectionism.
the doha amendment aims to make the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions a binding target.
european countries have been successful in reducing greenhouse gas emissions due to a combination of factors: technological progress, economic slowdown and deindustrialisation.
but some countries are not playing their part in the fight against these emissions, and this has the effect of putting the costs on member states.
in addition, the united states' commitment at cop 21 to reduce its emissions is likely to put additional pressure on the eu member countries.
the doha amendment provides for the opening of a second period of commitments under the kyoto protocol, until december 2020, with binding greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
‒ this report validates the council's proposal on the union's commitments to the kyoto protocol for its second period, 2013-2020, which was endorsed at the doha summit in 2012. meanwhile, states including the united states of america have refused to endorse these binding global warming targets.
the eu would need to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 30% by 2020 while still meeting the 20% target.
the 'carbon market', the main measure to reduce european emissions, is ineffective.
but it also increases the debt of states by misusing public money to compensate for excess emissions.
it therefore prevents the development of other policies in favour of the energy transition.
as the ngos are calling for, let's change the system, not the climate!
‒ the kyoto protocol set targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions as part of a binding legal framework.
‒ following on from the kyoto agreements signed in 1997, the doha amendment aims to open a second period of commitments, from january 2013 to december 2020, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
have not joined them, and because emerging countries are not included in the annex which defines the list of countries subject to reduction targets, while their economies are on track to emit more greenhouse gases than developed countries.
the doha amendment aims to extend the kyoto agreements signed in 1997 for a new commitment period from january 2013 to december 2020. it aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through legally binding regulation.
first of all, the main countries responsible for these emissions are not affected.
nothing is said about the necessary introduction of ecological protectionism, the only weapon capable of actually reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
this commitment is important to continue our efforts to reduce carbon emissions and safeguard the future of our planet.
‒ i voted in favour, in view of the amendment to the kyoto protocol adopted at the eighth session of the parties to the kyoto protocol, in view of the request for approval submitted by the council and in view of the recommendation of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
this report concerns the european parliament's agreement to the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol on the commitment of signatory parties to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
this new agreement, signed in 2012, extends the first commitment period on binding emission reductions until 2020. with this new agreement, the eu, its member states and iceland commit themselves to reducing their greenhouse gas emissions by 80% compared with 1990 levels.
in order to limit as far as possible the adverse effects of air pollution from the major economies on global warming, i naturally voted in favour of this recommendation.
‒ following on from the kyoto agreements signed in 1997, the doha amendment aims to open a second commitment period from january 2013 to december 2020. these are greenhouse gas emission reduction targets within a legally binding framework.
have abandoned them;- annex 1 gives a list of countries subject to reduction targets which do not include emerging countries, while the latter are on track, in the medium term, to emit more greenhouse gases than the oecd countries;- the good results of the european countries are largely due to technological advances, but also, unfortunately, to the economic slowdown and deindustrialization.
‒ meps approved the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the un framework convention on climate change and the joint implementation of the commitments arising therefrom.
the amendment extends the eu countries' greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments for the period 2013-2020 and makes several changes to the original agreement, such as the addition of a new greenhouse gas.
we are thus encouraging our member states to take the necessary steps to meet their emission reduction targets, and we are positioning the european union as the global leader in the fight against climate change ahead of the major climate conference in paris in december.
‒ the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol was adopted at the climate change conference in december 2012. it introduces a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and will end on 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments.
for the european union and its member states, the objective is to limit average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of the 1990 baseline emissions for the period 2013-2020. i voted in favour of this text, which is partly the result of the measures contained in the 2009 'climate and energy' package.
‒ following on from the kyoto agreements signed in 1997, the doha amendment aims to open a second commitment period of the protocol, extending from january 2013 to december 2020. these are greenhouse gas emission reduction targets within a legally binding framework.
the great disparity in the world's efforts to combat climate change is counterproductive and it is unacceptable to prolong the application of such a system, especially since the rapporteur rightly notes that european states are suffering from these constraints while other states are abstaining.
‒ iceland is already participating in the eu's carbon market and greenhouse gas reporting.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it reiterates iceland's commitment, like all eu states, to limit its ghg emissions over the period 2013-2020.
in writing.
iceland is a low-polluting country, exploiting geothermal energy for example.
‒ the kyoto protocol was adopted in 2005. the countries that joined the agreement pledged to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
it seals iceland's commitment, together with the european union, to maintain the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
it is essential that the various member states of the european union, as well as third countries, agree on the way forward in the fight against pollution and climate change.
any new agreement to reduce emissions will make existing commitments more effective.
the union seems to want to position itself as the moral authority even in environmental policy, but the choice here seems particularly aberrant since iceland is recognised as one of the least polluting countries in the world, due in particular to its exploitation of geothermal energy.
in addition, iceland - a country that recently withdrew from the eu candidate countries - is already participating in the eu carbon market and greenhouse gas reporting.
finally, as i said in connection with the gardini report on the doha amendment, the kyoto protocol has proved ineffective in reducing greenhouse gases, as the main polluting countries are not subject to the obligation to reduce emissions.
the report is linked to the gardini report, which was also voted on at this plenary session, and aims to facilitate iceland's participation in limiting average greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of those emitted in 1990, the reference year.
the european union has been a driving force in the fight against climate change at global level, notably in the adoption of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
so by 2020, our annual greenhouse gas emissions should not exceed 80 percent of the 1990 level.
the protocol provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments, whereby the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% for the base year (1990 in most cases) over the period 2013-2020. on the eve of the paris climate change conference in december 2015, this cooperation is moving in the right direction.
iceland is already participating in the eu's carbon market and greenhouse gas reporting, and the eu, which is seeking to become a leader in reducing greenhouse gases, wants to bring other states along.
the union and iceland have made commitments to combat climate change.
they will not be able to reach european level by relying on the current 'carbon market'.
let's change the system, not the climate!
i support the need for a binding model to combat global warming but not under these insufficient conditions.
‒ iceland is already participating in the carbon market and the eu's greenhouse gas declaration, which seeks to become a leader in reducing these gases, wants to bring other states along.
iceland, being part of the eu carbon market and greenhouse gas reporting, the european parliament should be consulted on its inclusion in the kyoto commitments for the second period.
our non-eu partner iceland will also continue its efforts to reduce carbon emissions, which are important for the future of our planet.
‒ i voted in favour, having regard to the letter from the committee on foreign affairs, the recommendation from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the request for approval from the council and the agreement between the eu and its member states (including iceland) on iceland's participation in the joint implementation of the eu commitments during the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol.
i voted in favour of this recommendation, which calls for a large number of countries to work together to combat climate change.
iceland is participating in the eu's carbon market and greenhouse gas reporting.
it is a particularly low-polluting state, thanks in particular to its exploitation of geothermal energy.
the union wants to be a leader in action to reduce greenhouse gases and is therefore seeking to involve other states in its own commitments.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which associates iceland with the other member states of the european union in setting binding greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for the period 2013-2020 through joint ratification of the doha amendment.
having already committed itself alongside the european union in 2009, we welcome its renewed participation in the eu's emissions trading system and the mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions.
the climate challenges are immense and the more we work together on these issues, the better the results will be.
‒ the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol was adopted at the climate change conference in december 2012. it introduces a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and will end on 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments.
iceland has expressed its intention to fulfil its greenhouse gas reduction commitments jointly with the european union during the second commitment period (2013-2020).
i supported this text, which sends a signal about the coordinated efforts of the european union in the fight against climate change, in particular with a view to the paris conference on climate change in 2015.
in writing.
iceland is already participating in the union's carbon market and greenhouse gas reporting.
this state has the particularity of being low-polluting, exploiting geothermal energy for example.
the very wide disparity in global efforts to combat climate change is counterproductive and it is not acceptable to prolong the application of such a system, especially since european states bear these constraints while other states abstain.
this convention guarantees a climate of confidence for our citizens in the national and european institutions.
the european parliament condemned the increasingly harmful climate towards minorities such as the crimean tatars, whose freedoms and rights were being violated.
he said that the eu was "no longer a strategic partner" of the eu and accused it of creating a climate of hatred in europe.
this is clearly stated in the text, in a federalist draft, as it calls on these states "to definitively remove decision-making blocks and to work ... to consolidate common policies, especially in the areas of trade, services and financial transactions, migration, energy, management of external borders, information and cybersecurity".
it is accused of creating a climate of tension and of drawing up an arbitrary and reprehensible blacklist: what about the sanctions planned by the union against russia a year ago ?
he condemned the 'illegitimate use of energy as a means of political and diplomatic pressure', which is exactly what parliament advocates against russia in its report on the energy strategy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
he therefore advocates turning entirely to the united states to end energy dependence on russia.
the rapporteur also wants to liberalize the supply of energy in europe by removing the possibility for member states to set regulated tariffs or protectionist policies for their industries.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because, despite the progress made in strengthening its infrastructure and diversifying its suppliers, the european union remains vulnerable to external energy shocks and geopolitical hazards.
europe has succeeded in achieving food independence through the cap and must now do the same for its energy needs.
the european energy agency will be a key tool in the purchasing power of europeans and a new cornerstone of effective european diplomacy.
‒ the author of this report, mr saudargas, who is fiercely hostile to russia, has presented a text that is clearly hostile to our russian partner, in defiance of geographical constraints (ease of transit) and geological constraints (available stocks) linked to energy supply.
only the member states should be able to decide on their energy policy and on energy cooperation.
‒ i voted against the report on the european energy security strategy.
it is aimed at making the union energy independent of russia, so that it can turn to american imports.
unlike those members who chose to demonstrate their friendship with the united states and their disagreement with russia, i chose to focus on those states which are able to supply energy to the french under the best conditions.
‒ we need to establish a european strategy for energy security.
an energy union is essential for the proper functioning of the single market and for the security of the union's member states.
that is why we must strengthen our energy production capacity, including nuclear power.
research and innovation in the energy sector also need to be improved.
‒ i have strongly opposed this report which uses energy security issues in a scandalous way to wage a new battle against russia, which is also outrageously stated in the explanatory statement of this report.
while russia is our main partner in energy supply - eu member states received 167 gm3 of russian gas in 2013 - meps claim that it is not a reliable partner, even though they are unable to cite a single example of a contract that has not been respected by the russian federation so far.
in this context, the report envisages an increase in the import of shale gas from american soil, a very ecological prospect which has pleased our green friends.
finally, the report makes clear the desire to achieve the single energy market, to the detriment of the energy independence of the member states, but also of consumers.
‒ this own-initiative report follows the adoption by the european commission of a european energy security strategy in may 2014 in the wake of the crisis in ukraine.
energy security, which is the full dimension of the energy union project, must be based on three main and complementary actions, namely the limitation of energy demand, the increase in indigenous energy production and research and development in energy technologies.
the integration of the internal energy market and the diversification of internal sources of supply should also be completed.
the text largely limits the possibilities for strengthening european energy security by exploiting europe's indigenous resources.
it also sets binding targets of 40% for energy efficiency by 2030. i am therefore in favour of a 30% target, which seems more realistic to me.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: with this vote, i supported the european commission's desire to put in place a clear strategy on energy security.
it is essential that the european institutions commit themselves to a european energy union with defined guidelines.
this european energy security strategy must be in harmony with an ambitious climate policy.
energy security is essential for the union.
at present, member states import 53% of the energy they consume.
that is why we must move towards a genuine energy union to ensure our independence.
we also need to diversify our sources of supply, with emphasis, of course, on the development of clean, renewable and innovative energy.
‒ i voted against the report on the european energy security strategy.
it is aimed at making the union energy independent of russia, so that it can turn to american imports.
unlike those members who chose to demonstrate their friendship with the united states and their disagreement with russia, i chose to focus on those states which are able to supply energy to the french under the best conditions.
‒ i voted against this text because, under the false pretext of diversifying the energy supplies of the eu member states, it aims to distance russia from our relations, whereas it should be a privileged partner.
i support the idea of creating a european energy union based on close coordination between the member states, an integrated internal market, the development of low-carbon technologies, the search for energy efficiency and support for the competitiveness of our companies.
the crisis in ukraine has reminded the european union of the importance of energy security and the crucial role it plays in strengthening europe's political and economic position.
however, despite the difficult geopolitical situation between the european union and russia, i hope that we will remain open to dialogue with this major energy partner.
in addition, in order to develop our energy independence, it is important that we do not close the door on indigenous energy production in europe.
he also called for a complete shift towards the united states in order to end energy dependence on russia.
the rapporteur also wants to liberalize the supply of energy in europe by removing the possibility for member states to set regulated tariffs or protectionist policies for their industries.
i voted against the report by my colleague algirdas saudargas on the european energy security strategy.
the report favours the escalation of tensions between russia and the european union by recalling that russia cannot be a reliable partner, while russia remains an indispensable partner in the field of energy.
the report also proposed the phasing out of nuclear power plants, an unrealistic proposal as alternative energy sources would be highly co2-emitting and/or would compromise europe's energy independence.
‒ i chose to abstain on the saudargas report on the european energy security strategy.
while certain provisions of the report, such as the development of energy technologies or the diversification of sources of supply, contributed positively to the establishment of a european energy market, i considered that it also contained inappropriate provisions, such as recommending a moratorium in principle on the exploitation of shale gas or the outright rejection of nuclear energy.
‒ i voted against this report, which is part of a hostile environment towards russia (the opening of proceedings against gazprom).
in addition, the european union has an unacceptable desire to dictate the energy policy of the member states without leaving them the choice of their sources of supply.
we are calling for the establishment of free interstate cooperation, by giving back energy sovereignty to the states.
the strategy aims to shift the european union away from its dependence on russian energy by offering it as fodder to the united states and qatar.
the strategy hopes to achieve the famous 'energy union' through a 'fully integrated internal energy market'.
in fact, this strategy will lead to an increase in consumer prices (the end of regulated prices), the breakdown of our industry (the end of long-term supply contracts, free competition) and will deprive member states of the choice of their energy sources, suppliers and supply routes.
‒ the saudargas report is part of an overall strategy and provides answers to the major energy challenges facing europe today.
the commission is therefore building on the foundations laid during the previous legislature, with ambitious binding targets for 2030: a reduction of at least 40% in greenhouse gas emissions, an increase of at least 30% in renewable energy production, and at least 40% in efficiency gains.
the report highlights the poor performance of the european union in terms of energy efficiency in each of its three quantified objectives.
in line with the convictions of our group and the french socialists, the report seeks to guarantee energy security by developing renewable energy sources, which have the advantage of being indigenous and clean.
‒ the text advocates the creation of an energy union.
far from taking account of the environmental aspects of energy consumption, the text defends the emissions trading system as the panacea.
however, this system has failed to engage europe in a real energy transition to replace most carbon-based energy with renewable energy.
i am voting against this absurd text which is absolutely out of step with the fight against the ecological catastrophe.
he also called for a complete shift towards the united states in order to end energy dependence on russia.
the rapporteur also wants to liberalize the supply of energy in europe by removing the possibility for member states to set regulated tariffs or protectionist policies for their industries.
beyond geopolitical considerations, this report, like the forthcoming report on the energy union, aims to free europe from russian gas dominance through liberalisation measures that will lead to higher prices for consumers (by regulating prices) and endanger our industry (by long-term supply contracts, in the name of free competition).
while continuing to promote submission to market rules, the union therefore intends to dictate to the member states their energy policy by depriving them of the choice of their energy sources, but also of their suppliers and their supply routes.
we must give priority to free interstate cooperation and, to do so, return energy sovereignty to the states.
‒ the report seems to be marked by a certain russophobia, which it emphasises over the basic constraints on energy supply, such as the geographical or geological factor (available stock).
‒ i abstained on this text on the european energy security strategy.
the text, which was the result of compromise with the s&d, greens, alde, gue, efdd and ecr groups, is too exclusively geared towards renewable energy sources, to the detriment of nuclear energy and conventional and non-conventional energy sources.
i voted in favour of the amendment calling on the commission to examine possible solutions for the introduction of a carbon adjustment mechanism at the border.
the aim is to create a level playing field between european producers and non-european producers, who are not subject to the same environmental requirements.
this report follows the publication by the commission in may 2014 of its energy security strategy, which was to provide the union with a roadmap to strengthen its sources of supply and their security, thus contributing to the achievement of an energy union.
it presents the priorities for internal and external development of energy security, such as the development of technologies or the diversification of sources, but omits aspects such as energy poverty, or access to energy as a common good and not just a consumer good.
i do not want to put the future of european energy security in the hands of the dominant multinationals in this field, so i have decided to vote against this report.
‒ the author of this report, mr saudargas, who is very hostile to russia, has presented a text which is clearly directed against a country, in spite of geographical constraints (ease of transit) and geological constraints (available stocks) linked to energy supply.
‒ today, the european union needs to ensure its energy security, especially in a geopolitical context that is currently unstable, especially with russia.
the report on the establishment of a european energy security strategy proposed measures to address the union's growing energy dependence.
the report was not balanced enough and proposed too much use of renewable energy.
it is necessary to review this strategy and develop a more sustainable strategy based more on different energy sources in line with the realities.
‒ the implementation of a common energy security policy, which is a key element of deeper european integration, has become all the more essential following the tensions we are experiencing with some of our suppliers, in particular russia.
that is why i supported this motion for a resolution which, although not legally binding, was part of a growing awareness of the measures to be put in place: development of interconnection between the member states' networks, promotion of indigenous renewable energies, increase in energy efficiency through innovative systems.
i did not, however, support the amendments to discard nuclear energy, which is a competitive element for industry, and low-carbon energy, which still plays an important role in producing electricity in europe, or shale gas, from which it is now known that there are less harmful ways of extracting it.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european energy union.
energy is a key policy for the preservation of the environment, for the climate, but also for reducing our energy dependence.
the 2014 crisis in ukraine showed us that it is important for europe to complete its own single energy market, in our own interest and in the interest of future generations.
the energy union is a global project that should provide european citizens with safe, sustainable and affordable sources of energy.
the potential economic benefits to be derived from the completion of the energy market are estimated to be between eur 16 and 40 billion per year.
we also recall that solidarity is a fundamental principle in the field of energy security.
‒ this report is very explicitly part of this new lukewarm war being waged by the european union against our russian partner, in defiance of geographical constraints (ease of transit) and geological constraints (available stocks) linked to energy supply.
more generally, it is a matter of supporting the completion of the single energy market to ensure that the commitments made by the commission in recent years are respected.
‒ energy is a key issue.
it limits the sovereignty of the member states and attempts to force through a common energy policy for the benefit of a few huge companies which monopolize the exploitation and management of these resources.
energy is a public good and policies concerning this resource must be geared to the needs of the population, both in terms of prices, which must be affordable for all, and also in terms of infrastructure, to enable everyone to have access to energy.
it is therefore also essential to increase our commitment to the issue of energy poverty and to take all the necessary solidarity measures.
finally, environmental and health issues are not taken into account, particularly with regard to shale gas from hydraulic fracturing.
in addition, the current climate forces us to be reasonable and to strengthen the protection of our citizens.
the rapporteur also makes it clear that the aim of integrating turkey would be to get rid of russia's strategic partnership in terms of energy supply.
in addition, the current climate forces us to be reasonable and to strengthen the protection of our citizens.
i am a strong supporter of national sovereignty and i am opposed to the european union's attempts to interfere in matters of justice and environmental policy in particular.
there is a lot of waste and corruption, 50% of the students have a very low educational level, living conditions are sometimes difficult and the price of medicines (often fake) is far too high for a population that needs them.
the common security policy, but also the neighbourhood policy, the energy strategy: everything is good to participate in a policy of going to war against moscow.
the european union should strengthen its resilience, security and defence capability and develop its energy independence.
mr president, what a sad waste.
once again, europe will demonstrate the inability of its leaders - and i regret it - to imagine the 21st century and to respond to the new challenges it presents us with in terms of production, consumption, mobility, energy and resources.
like all environmentalists, of course, i am in favour of an investment plan, but a real one, which would really help to revive europe, give hope to young people, give them work, respond to the question of unemployment and tackle the environmental and social challenges that are arising.
these projects must be consistent with the union's policy objectives, particularly in the areas of transport, energy, telecommunications and research.
i would also like to stress the importance of the clarifications we have made to ensure that there is real additionality: investing where neither the eib nor the structural funds can do it, investing in projects that meet the requirements of energy transition and job creation, and i welcome the guidelines and scoreboard that will guide investment priorities.
we will defend investments that serve the goals of job creation and sustainable growth.
the project, which is an essential element of european economic policy alongside budgetary consolidation and structural reforms, was designed to support the development of smes, create jobs and finance growth projects in the fields of agri-food, transport, digital, energy, research and innovation.
we say that structural reform is a demanding reform, which must be evaluated over time in terms of results, not only in terms of labour costs but also by integrating social, environmental and economic criteria.
finally, i think we need a more favourable environment.
i urge the european commission to be firm on this point in order to maintain and strengthen our internal market and strengthen our environmental and industrial policy.
the action plan sets out a series of initiatives to tackle tax evasion, ensure sustainable revenues and strengthen the single market for businesses.
the eu is seeking to create leverage through a €16 billion guarantee to support public and private investment in transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure (including interconnections of transport and energy networks) and digital infrastructure.
strategic investments will also include projects of common interest in the fields of urban and rural development, environment, natural resources, industry, research and innovation, culture and health.
in particular, in the context of today's discussion of the report on the european fund for strategic investments, i would like to reiterate that it is good that the amounts to be transferred to the fund from the appropriations for science and research in horizon 2020 and from the appropriations for energy, transport and digital infrastructure in the cef have been reduced.
this investment plan, initiated by juncker, provides for €315 billion to encourage the financing of viable investments in europe, particularly in the fields of energy and digital technology: €240 billion should be devoted to investments and €75 billion to enterprises, mainly smes.
this lack of compliance is one of the fundamental causes of the sovereign debt crisis that has affected several euro area countries since 2009. that is why i am in favour of a sustainable fiscal consolidation and structural reforms that will increase competitiveness and invest in order to improve growth.
from this point of view, there is a priority in relation to the imperatives that are linked to a strategy for the ecological transition that you must carry and that you must keep in mind when you are going to move along the path of these capital markets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the use of resources in our economy is at the crossroads of many problems which the rapporteur rightly raises: waste, dependence on imports of raw materials and energy, and the lack of a recycling economy.
while the importance of short circuits is highlighted and the report claims to set a new paradigm, it does not propose any real structural changes that would give member states the tools needed for a sustainable circular economy.
yet it is one of the main drivers of overuse of resources and pollution.
let us be realistic, ladies and gentlemen, the future of the environment is our land and the great continent of europe.
it is not by strengthening the regulatory powers of the european commission, or by shedding a tear over food waste, that we will succeed in preserving our environmental heritage and in reducing malnutrition in the world and poverty in europe.
the commission has, let us say, been very slow to tackle the question of the circular economy, and we are now seeing that, on the specific issue of waste - i am talking here about municipal waste - if we do not have a firm ambition, nothing will happen.
we must not oppose the environment to the economy.
we must make sure that the economy and the environment are in harmony.
before we can set a european waste target, we must have harmonised calculation methods for all member states.
finally, i would like to focus on a more specific proposal in the fight against food waste.
the trap would be to avoid any sustainable regulation of this rapidly expanding sector.
what is at issue here is a political stance that seeks to transfer some of our sovereignty to multinational corporations, to bypass national jurisdictions that want to protect social rights, health, the environment, public services first, and to transfer that power to private courts.
we will not accept any weakening of our social, health and environmental standards.
on that occasion we made clear the priorities and the red lines of parliament on this agreement: transparency, strict respect for all the laws and collective preferences which underpin our european social model, the highest standards in the field of the environment, public health, food safety, social rights and fundamental rights, the protection of our geographical indications, our public services and cultural diversity and, finally, the exclusion of private arbitration for the settlement of disputes between investors and states.
i regret, however, that europe is not taking a stronger stand against the danger to the human ecosystem posed by our production methods.
rather than liberalizing agriculture further along this path, the european union should be engaged in ecological planning vital to the future of mankind.
i regret, however, that europe is not taking a stronger stand against the danger to the human ecosystem posed by our production methods.
rather than liberalizing agriculture further along this path, the european union should be engaged in ecological planning vital to the future of mankind.
the mobilisation of this fund is another example of european solidarity between the member states suffering the consequences of unprecedented rainfall and climate change.
at a time when the union is experiencing unprecedented immigration and a high risk of terrorist attacks, facilitating mobility and reducing controls does not seem to me to be a good solution; the price of tickets may increase significantly to pay for the system (except in the case of outsourcing); the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
the report sets out a number of objectives, ranging from equipping all modes of transport with intelligent transmission systems by 2023 to establishing a single national information system to link regional and local timetables, in order to promote greater use of public transport and to promote the environment.
there is a need to increase the sustainability, cost-effectiveness and energy efficiency of our transport.
such a system aims to facilitate and encourage the multimodal travel of european citizens and will address the issues of sustainability, economic viability, energy efficiency and environmental friendliness in transport.
this platform would allow for greater price transparency and better environmental consideration during journeys.
to this end, the report advocates equipping all modes of transport with intelligent transmission systems by 2023 and establishing a single national information system to connect regional and local timetables, in order to promote greater use of public transport and promote the environment.
it is also about promoting the transition to public transport, which is necessary to reduce our consumption and carbon emissions in europe.
the aim is to promote greater use of public transport and to promote the environment.
the decongestion of the transport network and thus the reduction of carbon emissions will be among the main improvements.
under rule 197, the special committees are appointed for a term of 12 months, renewable by parliament.
the commission has already proposed a reduction of the amount of the existing investment programmes in the eu budget (horizon 2020, the european environment agency, iter) by 1.2 billion.
the union is seeking to create leverage through a eur 16 billion guarantee to support public and private investment in transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure (including interconnections of transport and energy networks) and digital infrastructure.
the european union, rather than financially supporting cooperation projects, prefers to waste public money on policies whose inefficiency is no longer to be demonstrated.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the text thus recalls the important role of dairy farming in terms of land use planning, rural employment and economic, environmental and social development of many european agricultural regions.
in view of the difficulties affecting national milk markets, notably due to the russian embargo, it is essential to give priority to this issue and to strengthen targeted market measures in order to make the dairy sector viable, competitive and sustainable in the union.
in the end, we are seeing a strengthening of large producers at the expense of small ones, concentrating production more and more, against consumer choice, environmental rules and the activity of rural areas.
i am voting against this text which does not take account of the ecological and trade issues raised.
it is necessary to stimulate job creation and restore real competitiveness and productivity within the union in order to restart sustainable growth.
‒ the report begins by stating as a well-established fact that 'societies benefit from an environment favourable to interaction between the public and private sectors'.
this text states that a country's societies and economic structures benefit from an environment conducive to interaction between the public and private sectors and to cooperation between public and private entities, including through joint projects and joint ventures.
they also play a strategic role in the modernisation of infrastructure, including energy, road, digital and water supply infrastructure.
the most important are: - adapting and clarifying the rules governing the creation of producer organisations so that the sector is better organised collectively; - increasing support for producer organisations; - introducing crisis prevention and management instruments; - combating unfair trading practices in the food chain, especially in the retail sector; - strengthening sustainability and environmental protection; - stimulating innovation and research; - promoting short-circuits and school fruit and vegetable consumption programmes; - applying reciprocity in external trade; - fighting more effectively against the import of organisms harmful to plants.
the report rightly calls on the commission to redouble its efforts to tackle unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, which have a negative impact on producers' revenues, reduce their incomes and put them in a precarious situation, threatening the sustainability and stability of the sector.
to enhance the effectiveness of collective action by producers, it is also necessary to strengthen producer organisations and to provide for the possibility of involving producers who are not members of a producer organisation in their actions, in particular in the area of good product valuation, crisis management or anticipation and environmental actions.
this disengagement of public forces leaves the market in control of production, resulting in a 6% decrease in the area under fruit and vegetables and a 39% decrease in the number of farms between 2003 and 2010. the report details the shortcomings of this system, but does not propose a different model based on ecological planning.
it will also contribute to putting the eu back on the path of long-term sustainable growth.
shareholders, eager to increase the return on their investments, have taken reckless positions that threaten the sustainability of our companies.
madam president, madam vice-president, the european union has shown its commitment to the proposals and recommendations of the kyoto protocol by setting up a market for greenhouse gas emission allowances.
the real debate should have been about the system of trading of allowances and the regulation of emissions.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, ivo belet, and all those who helped him, on reaching agreement on 5 may on the creation of the market stability reserve of the ems, which should encourage companies to invest in low-carbon technologies, while allowing them to remain competitive on the international scene.
some companies have already made enormous efforts: they have halved their co2 emissions in the last 30 years and now they know they cannot go any further because they do not have the right technologies and have made all the necessary efforts.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear to everyone that the emissions trading system is not working.
this system, in fact, only benefits speculators, who unscrupulously use the ecological pretext of reducing co2 emissions to make pollution a market value like any other.
it was the votes of the national front and its allies in the committee on industry, research and energy that made it possible to defeat the tajani report.
but by cop 21 in paris on 21 december 2015, and quickly, a genuine reform of the co2 trading system is needed to create an independent market authority for the ets and to set quantified targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, at eu and national level.
this tool will enable us, commissioner, to strengthen the international credibility of the european union in the fight against climate change.
the common fisheries policy must achieve the objectives set by the reform, in particular the objective of maximum sustainable yield, by 2015. i am also thinking of fisheries control and data collection, which are essential for the proper application and observance of the rules of the common fisheries policy.
all the peoples of europe would then have their eyes on greece and would be able to see that the exit from the euro does indeed allow renewal and the return of sustainable growth.
iran was pushed into negotiations on nuclear energy and, as in the 1980s with reagan and the ussr, russia, which was already under economic sanctions from the european union, suffered the full brunt of the fall of the barrel.
moreover, the resolution did not sufficiently protect both public services and the quality of european technical, social and environmental standards.
the united states refuses to ratify the major conventions on labour, the kyoto protocol on global warming, the convention on biological diversity, the unesco conventions on cultural diversity, and so on.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we will not make any concessions on the european union's social, environmental and health acquis.
this is exactly the message of parliament: protection of our agricultural model, social, health and environmental standards; exclusion of public services, respect for the sovereignty of states.
the text was intended to set out parliament's guidelines for these negotiations, recalling in particular the need to preserve european levels of protection of health, the environment and consumers, and the protection of europe's cultural diversity.
it is a choice of social model: do we want to put our social, environmental, precautionary standards in competition with the american lack of rules?
despite the union's fine speeches, this agreement will only have negative consequences for the french: american health, safety, environmental and social standards are far below ours and, in the end, it suggests a leveling-down to "satisfy" our partner.
despite the introduction of strong safeguards in several areas (such as the protection of workers' rights, the environment and geographical indications), the resolution remained too ambiguous and insufficiently firm on points which i do not consider to be negotiable: the unconditional, clear, sharp and precise rejection of private arbitration (isds/rdie), the protection of public services and the right of states to legislate in areas of general interest.
a free trade agreement of this magnitude cannot be achieved without the objectives of respecting and implementing the economic, social, environmental and cultural rights of european and american citizens.
on this fundamental issue, as well as on regulatory cooperation on social, environmental or agri-food standards, the resolution adopted does not go far enough in its recommendations to the commission for the continuation of negotiations.
nevertheless, the absolute necessity to preserve our lifestyles, and therefore our high european standards, seems hardly compatible with certain aspects of the american model, hence the differences, particularly on the famous arbitration courts or the application of environmental and food standards.
this treaty would lead to the dismantling or weakening of all the standards (social, environmental, etc.)
the resolution, which is based on illusions about the opening up of public procurement in the united states or the possibility of better regulation of financial services, even aligns the untruths about the purely technical role of the regulatory cooperation council with the maintenance of current plant health or environmental rules while their change is already underway or the protection of the cultural and audiovisual sectors, without taking into account the digital.
the exchange of research for mutual economic development will be the key to sustainable peace through development.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
while transparency is an essential element of the business environment, excessive bureaucracy must not be allowed to undermine the competitiveness of european businesses.
it also ensures that the interests of the company are protected and provides for member states to put in place mechanisms to promote long-term shareholding and the sustainability of companies.
‒ the emissions trading system introduced by the kyoto protocol in 1997 has been interpreted as a 'right to pollute'.
carbon dioxide emissions have not decreased, as previous forecasts and modelling had suggested.
‒ i voted in favour of this report to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the union.
i would just like to draw the commission's attention to a phenomenon which has been observed: countries which have a large relocation of their industries have a corresponding reduction in their greenhouse gas emissions.
in fact, this system only benefits unscrupulous speculators who use the ecological pretext of reducing co2 emissions to make pollution a market value like any other.
‒ this report, which is intended to create a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading system, was prompted by the fall in prices on the ghg emission allowance market (the 1997 kyoto protocol polluting rights).
‒ the text put to the vote by parliament provides for the creation of a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme (ges) to overcome the weaknesses of the previous system.
the system put in place was designed to set a carbon price high enough to provide incentives for companies to reduce their co2 emissions in the most cost-effective way.
the carbon price remains too low for large companies in the most polluting sectors, which have sufficient financial resources to buy these emission allowances, while smes and smes are unable to do so.
‒ the european emissions trading system is designed to reduce carbon emissions in the union in an economically efficient way.
investors will then start investing again in low-carbon technologies, which will result in a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the union.
the report encourages the creation of a stability reserve following the fall in prices on the greenhouse gas emission allowance market.
the objective, which was to regulate carbon dioxide emissions downwards, has missed its target, and the market stability reserve is failing to transform this system.
the failure of the ems, which reproduces market failures and is in line with the objectives of financialization of the environment sector, has therefore led me to reject this text.
‒ the purpose of this report is to establish a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading system.
with an entry into force in 2019, such a scheme aims to halt the fall in the price of the carbon tonne and introduce elements of flexibility in a market defined by a rigid supply.
i also championed the idea of an innovation fund, which was included in the final agreement for a maximum of 50 million licences before the launch of a new fund in 2021. finally, the issue of the competitiveness of european companies in the globalised market and carbon leakage was raised and will be addressed in the review of the ets directive before the end of 2015. i fully support the agreement reached with the council and i voted in favour.
the european union has established an emissions trading system (ets) to reduce carbon emissions while taking account of economic realities.
however, the system suffers from a surplus of "polluting rights", which weighs down on the price of carbon and discourages investment in green energy.
the european union is thus demonstrating its determination to achieve its environmental objectives in the run-up to the 21st conference of the parties on climate change in paris.
this amendment to directive 2003/87/ec will help to better regulate one of the pillars of our climate policy and make it easier to achieve our greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
however, it will be essential to monitor the application of these rules, particularly by the most energy-intensive industries.
we call for an ambitious agreement on environmental protection and the fight against climate change at global level.
‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme.
i voted against this resolution because it neglects the real tools to fight global warming.
the creation of a stability reserve in the ets both encourages companies to invest in low-carbon technologies and at the same time allows them to remain competitive on the international stage.
some companies have halved their co2 emissions in thirty years, but the reduction potential in the next thirty years is not as great.
‒ i have decided to vote against this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the creation of a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme.
the emissions trading system introduced by the kyoto protocol in 1997 was in fact interpreted as a 'right to pollute' and therefore had the opposite effect to what was intended.
carbon dioxide emissions have not decreased as previously predicted and modelled.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague ivo belet on the market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme.
the eu's emissions trading scheme is designed to encourage eu countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by offering to sell them to other countries with lower emissions.
however, the abnormally low price of carbon (7 euros per tonne) no longer made these quotas attractive.
‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme.
the creation of a market stability reserve will support the price of carbon per tonne and will also encourage innovation in energy efficiency and help energy-intensive businesses, in particular to avoid relocation to less environmentally friendly regions.
the reform of the quota system also puts the eu at the forefront of the paris climate conference and the 2030 climate targets.
‒ i voted against the resolution on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system.
this stability reserve is motivated by the fall in the prices on the market for ghg emission allowances, which are polluting rights promoted by the kyoto protocol, causing the opposite of the expected effect, namely a downward regulation of carbon dioxide emissions.
a priori forecasts and modelling of carbon price developments in the eligible sectors were therefore contradicted by reality.
the market stability reserve is therefore a palliative measure which does not fundamentally transform the system, which reproduces market failures, pursues the objectives of financializing economic and environmental sectors, and contributes to making member states' industries less competitive.
the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading system will not solve the problem.
its original objective of reducing carbon dioxide emissions has not been achieved.
in addition, it is not possible to oblige the main polluters (certain large industries) to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, because of their financial capacity to buy back emission rights.
this text emphasizes the financialization of the environment, which is not a desirable course.
this quota system is once again financing the economy and the environment.
‒ in 2012, the failure of the european carbon market was clear: given the overabundance of quotas, the price of carbon, which was too low, had no effect.
the belet report makes ambitious proposals to reduce the carbon surplus available for trade, in order to support the price of emission allowances.
this stability reserve will create an incentive framework for low carbon investments.
the european union must continue to work to give visibility to investors and to build credibility for its commitment to the paris climate conference (cop 21).
i voted for this compromise because it is so firmly committed to a value dear to socialists - sustainable development.
‒ the commission's proposal aims to make structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets).
‒ the emissions trading system introduced by the kyoto protocol in 1997 was in fact interpreted as a 'right to pollute' and therefore had the opposite effect to what was intended.
carbon dioxide emissions have not decreased as previously predicted and modelled.
this report on the market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme aims to offset the fall in prices on the ghg emission allowance market.
this market stability reserve to cope with the evolution of carbon prices does not challenge the system but will be likely to favour large polluting companies to the detriment of smes, small and medium-sized enterprises and environmentally sound companies.
‒ this report on the market stability reserve for the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme aims to offset the fall in prices on the ghg emission allowance market.
this market stability reserve to cope with the evolution of carbon prices does not challenge the system but will be likely to favour large polluting companies to the detriment of smes, small and medium-sized enterprises and environmentally sound companies.
‒ the european commission has set new climate targets for 2030, including a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
in this context, the european parliament adopted the report on the market stability reserve for the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme.
we have succeeded in including in the text the commission's commitment to create a fund of at least €50 million to promote industrial innovation projects and to help sectors exposed to carbon leakage.
‒ the community emissions trading scheme (ects) is a 'carbon market' to reduce overall co2 emissions and meet the targets set for the european union in the kyoto protocol.
it sets limits on emissions and a carbon market, allowing each company to buy or sell its "right to pollute".
‒ i supported this report on the revision of the eu's emissions trading scheme by reducing the surplus of carbon credits available to support the carbon price which had fallen to around €7 per tonne.
the reserve will make it possible to draw on the allowances on the market each year in order to reduce the supply of allowances and to allow a rise in the price of carbon in europe, without affecting the competitiveness of our companies.
this reserve will ultimately stabilise the carbon market.
in parallel with this reform, the epp group managed to secure the commission's commitment to create a fund of at least €50 million to promote industrial innovation projects and protect sectors exposed to carbon leakage.
‒ the creation of a stability reserve was motivated by the fall in the market price of greenhouse gas emission allowances, rights to pollute promoted by the kyoto protocol (1997), causing the opposite of the expected effect, namely a downward regulation of carbon dioxide emissions.
a priori forecasts and modelling of carbon price developments in the eligible sectors were therefore contradicted by reality.
given the unsatisfactory nature of the ets system, which reproduces market failures, pursues the objectives of financializing the economic and environmental sectors and contributes to making the industries of the member states less competitive, i voted against this text.
‒ following the freezing of 900 million co2 emission allowances under the co2 ets (carbon market) for the period 2014-2016, the commission proposed in february 2014 the creation of an additional reserve of 600 million unallocated co2 allowances to be implemented in 2021. after months of negotiations, the european parliament and the council have reached a compromise that appears to be a glass half empty or half full, even if the new reserve will come into force in 2019 instead of 2021. this reserve system is a safety net to prevent speculation in the carbon market.
a complete overhaul of the system is needed to finally encourage industry to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
environmental protection and social policies are relegated to declarations of intent.
this is a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the eec, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part, associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 and to the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community supplementing the horizon 2020 framework programme, and regulating the participation of switzerland in the activities of iter.
‒ the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community provides for switzerland's inclusion in the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and its participation in iter activities conducted by fusion for energy.
however, nuclear energy is one of the most strategic sectors for france.
the agreement thus allows switzerland to be integrated into two major european programmes, but also regulates its participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
it is designed to combine our research efforts, particularly in the field of nuclear energy.
switzerland will be associated with the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community (euratom) and the european joint undertaking fusion for energy.
the council is to approve, on behalf of the european union, the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and the european atomic energy community and switzerland and associate switzerland to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and the euratom research and training programme and regulate switzerland's participation in the iter activities conducted by fusion for energy.
it is therefore necessary to be reasonable and to bear in mind that many french interests depend on nuclear energy.
however, nuclear energy is one of the most strategic sectors for france.
‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing the horizon 2020 framework programme, and regulating the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation.
the agreement allows switzerland to participate in the iter programme, a scientific project on fusion energy which is strategic for the french nuclear industry.
finally, the development of atomic energy in our neighbours is a threat to france and to europe as a whole.
this is a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part, associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 and to the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community supplementing the horizon 2020 framework programme, and regulating the participation of switzerland in the activities of iter.
the agreement thus enables switzerland to participate in the iter research programme aimed at switching from fusion-based to fusion-based energy, which is strategic for the french nuclear industry (in particular because its site is in cadarache).
‒ in the context of cooperation in the field of research, innovation and energy between the european union and third countries, the european parliament approved the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between switzerland and the union.
this agreement associates the swiss confederation to the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation and to the european atomic energy programme and governs the swiss confederation's participation in the activities of iter.
i believe that there is a need for better coordination of employment policies to deal with unemployment, which is particularly acute in the southern european countries, and to offer european citizens stable, suitable, sustainable and quality jobs.
this year, in the good neoliberal logic, we must again 'strengthen growth through structural reforms' and 'make public finances more sustainable'.
i voted in favour of this text and i stress the importance of reducing youth unemployment in the union in a sustainable way.
the economic environment is not very favourable to european industry, nor is the commission's legislation helping it, and it is necessary to support our entrepreneurs in the face of the unbridled globalisation imposed by the eu, which is bearing the brunt of the blow only on us.
‒ the draft budget for 2016 focuses on the european institutions' desire to create decent and quality jobs and to increase the competitiveness of our companies for sustainable growth.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which assesses the commission's 2016 budget proposal and sets out the main points of the european parliament's mandate for future trilogue negotiations on 14 july 2015. the text recalls that, in its resolution of 11 march 2015, parliament focused its priorities for the 2016 budget on the creation of decent and quality jobs and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the union as well as on internal and external solidarity in a secure europe.
as such, i voted in favour of this report, which incorporates the political priorities of the democrats and liberals, namely the digital single market and the energy union.
‒ the main objective of green growth is to achieve a low-carbon economy based on the efficient use of resources.
i also believe that the so-called 'green economy' will create stable, sustainable and non-relocatable jobs, all in sectors where we are often a step ahead of our non-european competitors.
the transition to a green economy will create, redefine and replace jobs as a result of economic and climate change (including the scarcity of certain resources) and innovation, and therefore action is needed now to support this economy to become more efficient and to support citizens in this transition.
several sectors are sources of non-relocatable jobs: waste treatment, insulation and energy efficiency, biomass, organic farming, etc.
environmental protection and competitiveness are not separate objectives.
care must be taken not to introduce overly restrictive environmental rules which would have a negative impact on the competitiveness of firms and prevent job creation.
the commission's measures to support green growth should encourage job creation: the development of the biomass and biofuels sectors, organic farming, increased insulation and energy efficiency in the construction sector are all initiatives that should actually contribute to the creation of green jobs.
‒ this own-initiative report presents the european parliament's position on the european commission's communication on the 'green jobs initiative' and a green action plan for smes, published in july 2014. the report focuses on environmental tax reform, energy efficiency, the development of supply chains and the role of smes.
parliament wants to close the skills gap in green technologies and support job creation through efficient and smart environmental taxation.
the text aims at a necessary transition to a more environmentally friendly economy by reducing carbon emissions.
it is designed to create jobs and redefine others in an ecological sense.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i will ensure that this text has a second objective, of course: the preservation of human health.
the vote will therefore be in favour of a triple approach: ecological, economic and health.
‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it could create stable, sustainable and non-delocalised jobs.
the sector already represents almost 500 000 jobs in france and it is estimated that more than 20 million jobs could be created in europe by the end of the decade in the renewable energy sector alone.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because the transition to a green and more sustainable economy has a high potential for innovation and job creation (up to 20 million by 2020) and seems inevitable in a world threatened by climate change and wasteful resource use.
the eu must also protect its industrial fabric from possible distortions of competition with companies in third countries which are not subject to the same environmental rules.
‒ the objective of green growth is to achieve a low-carbon economy based on the efficient use of resources.
green jobs are beneficial in several ways, as they reduce energy and raw material consumption, limit greenhouse gas emissions, create new jobs and are often not transferable.
the transition to sustainable economies is indeed an opportunity for new job creation, which we must seize.
as one of the drivers of job creation in europe, access to finance and training in the field of sustainable development is essential for smes' transition to green jobs.
it is important, however, to monitor the sustainability of these jobs, which must not be false solutions to combat unemployment.
i therefore support this report, which should create stable, sustainable and non-transferable jobs.
its positive impact should allow the creation of stable, sustainable and non-delocalised jobs.
‒ i welcome this own-initiative report from parliament which takes note of the environmental challenges and irreversible damage of the modes of consumption and production of productivist capitalism, but also of the potential for green job creation.
it attaches great importance throughout its report to the defence of decent, quality and sustainable jobs.
the report focuses on employment aspects and therefore does not address the carbon market.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
‒ the objective of green growth is to achieve a low-carbon economy based on the efficient use of resources.
however, this report does not in any way call into question the main causes of ecological change such as globalisation.
it does, however, emphasize certain sectors such as waste treatment, insulation, biomass, organic agriculture, which i think it is important to support, since they cannot be relocated.
the aim is to create new green jobs and to reduce energy and raw material consumption and greenhouse gas emissions through action along the value chain.
similarly, the renewable energy sector is expected to create 20 million new jobs in europe by 2020.
in writing.
by adopting innovative solutions to conserve resources and reduce our carbon emissions, by streamlining production methods, by creating new business models compatible with sustainable development, the green economy is an economy of the future for our continent.
however, this report does not in any way call into question the main causes of ecological change such as globalisation.
it does, however, emphasize certain sectors such as waste treatment, insulation, biomass, organic agriculture, which i think it is important to support, since they cannot be relocated.
i am voting in favour because, from the point of view of employment and social affairs, this green jobs initiative should create stable, sustainable jobs which cannot be relocated.
‒ wasting resources, climate change, pollution of all kinds, as well as inequality and social exclusion are hindrances to growth.
concrete proposals are put forward, such as support for the ecological conversion of smes, the establishment of targeted training programmes for workers, their participation in the evolution of jobs in order to promote their quality and sustainability.
the resolution also stresses the potential of sectors such as energy efficiency through, for example, insulation of buildings, and the need to develop a european industrial strategy, including in the renewable energy sector.
faced with these challenges, europe must respond in a way that creates a stable tax system that provides a reliable and sustainable source of revenue for developing countries and thus promotes the strengthening of their democratic institutions and the rule of law.
the increase in pollution should make us think about our lifestyle and consumption.
the proposals in this report are intended to influence the work of the commission by the end of 2015. these include incentives to move towards an 'eco-design' policy for products and towards 'zero waste', thus developing recycling of these products.
to do this, it is important to set binding targets to reduce waste, increase product sustainability, promote eco-design, create a mandatory european passport to facilitate product tracking, repair and recycling.
this report on the transition to a circular economy is an own-initiative report by parliament, which informs the commission of the nature of the proposals it is required to make by the end of 2015. the circular economy aims to produce goods and services while significantly reducing the consumption and waste of raw materials and non-renewable energy sources.
it is a globalist, free-trade model that favors sustained growth, often in defiance of environmental, fiscal or social standards.
the circular economy which is based on short circuits, local preference and local production, avoiding imports too far away to contain pollution, has nothing to do with our model, but it is a form of economy which we should support without going into the imposition of excessive standards as is the case here for the building sector.
this is a series of measures aimed at moving towards eco-design of products and 'zero waste'.
the report also calls on the commission to impose very restrictive standards on energy consumption in buildings to be renovated and in new construction.
while it is necessary to pursue a long-term policy that respects the environment, it is unthinkable to increase the burden of environmental standards without any compensation for economic actors.
in the absence of these two conditions, this new legal arsenal will only have the effect of undermining the competitiveness of our companies and once again favouring imports from countries which do not respect any basic social and environmental standards.
this is a text which is ridiculous for the environment and harmful to our businesses.
it is very important that we make progress on environmental protection and recycling in europe.
to remain competitive in the global economy and to respect the environment are two compatible objectives, which must be balanced to be as efficient as possible.
this is a provision already in place in france and which will have to be applied throughout europe to combat food waste.
while it is welcome that the members of parliament are developing a certain conservatism in the direction of reducing waste and preserving our ecosystem, it is clear that these proposals and this will make no sense in a european union cemented by the globalist ideology, which does not allow short production cycles to be promoted in the direction of reducing pollutants.
‒ this strategic report follows the withdrawal and preparation by the european commission of a new package on the circular economy, to accompany the gradual shift of our economies to a more efficient use of resources, in particular by reducing waste generation and increasing collection and recycling targets.
finally, i welcome the adoption of an amendment tabled by the french delegation in favour of combating food waste by establishing agreements between supermarkets and food aid associations so that the latter can benefit from unsold food.
‒ the report calls for the establishment of circular economy systems that retain the added value in products for as long as possible and thus eliminate excessive waste generation.
before a waste target is set at european level, we must have harmonised calculation methods for all member states, a proposal which is included in the text.
it wants the union to protect the environment, but sets unsustainable objectives.
the report also demonstrates once again the union's commitment to environmental policy harmonization.
in particular, in the proposals on waste recycling, the text aims at a single objective, ignoring local and national realities.
such a transition to more sustainable and resource-efficient economic models is a concrete solution to these challenges.
the report calls for a binding waste prevention target by 2025 and a recycling target of 70% of municipal waste and 80% of packaging by 2030. it also proposes other targets, such as reducing marine litter by 50% or food waste by 30% by 2025. if europe is to be more efficient, it must make the best use of its resources.
to achieve this, it is essential to strike the right balance between the environment and the economy, between ambition and realism.
the principles and beliefs behind it seem rather positive since the catastrophic state of our environment should make us think about our lifestyle and consumption.
the proposals put forward are intended to influence the work of the commission by the end of 2015. these include incentives to move towards an 'eco-design' policy for products and towards 'zero waste', thus developing recycling of these products.
in the face of the challenges of climate change, i believe that the transition to a circular economy that promotes the efficient and sustainable use of natural resources is essential.
innovative initiatives, such as the fight against food waste, already implemented in france, must be extended to the whole of europe.
however, such a transition must be adapted to the current economic environment and ensure that it does not place an excessive administrative and financial burden on enterprises in transition, particularly smes.
the report proposes a series of incentive measures, including a policy of 'eco-design' of products, to aim at 'zero waste', to impose very restrictive standards on buildings in terms of energy consumption and to renovate the existing building in this respect, to develop 'industrial synergies' in order to use cascading resources.
it is nothing more or less than a list of incentives for 'zero waste' based on policies of 'eco-design' of products, of 'industrial synergy'.
‒ the circular economy is an economic and industrial system that is low in carbon and energy and low in natural resources that are not, rarely, slowly or costly renewable, based on eco-design of products and services that must promote recycling at the best cost.
the commission is therefore asked to improve the sustainability, reuse and recycling of products and to ban toxic chemicals and promote eco-design.
it also calls for binding waste reduction targets to be achieved by 2025. i am voting for this non-legislative text, with no illusions about its effects.
‒ the principles and beliefs behind this report seem rather positive since the catastrophic state of our environment should make us think about our lifestyle and consumption.
the proposals put forward are intended to influence the work of the commission by the end of 2015. these include incentives to move towards an 'eco-design' policy for products and towards 'zero waste', thus developing recycling of these products.
its objective is to produce goods and services while greatly limiting the consumption and waste of raw materials and non-renewable energy sources.
the report envisages a whole series of measures such as the 'zero waste' objective, the imposition of restrictive standards in the building sector (at a time when the construction sector is in crisis in france).
it advocates a transition of the european economy towards a circular model, with the establishment of a more coherent legislative framework for sustainable production and consumption.
it is not just a question of fighting the union's dependence on dwindling resources, but also of reducing our waste, especially food.
to reduce waste, to use our resources efficiently, to create a new economy, the measures we have just adopted are a clear message to the european commission, which will make its proposals for a circular economy at the end of the year.
we must not oppose the environment and the economy: we must support our companies, especially the most innovative ones.
before a waste target is set at european level, we must have harmonised calculation methods for all member states.
its objective is to produce goods and services while greatly reducing the consumption and waste of raw materials and non-renewable energy sources.
the report envisages a whole series of measures such as the 'zero waste' objective, the imposition of restrictive standards in the building sector (at a time when the construction sector is in crisis in france).
‒ the european parliament adopted a text setting up european legislation to combat the waste of food, products, energy and materials.
we throw away nearly 90 million tonnes of food a year, an unacceptable waste that we want to stop.
‒ the unsustainable use of resources not only causes environmental damage, but also poses an economic risk.
the global economy uses the equivalent of 1.5 earths in resources to produce and absorb waste.
continuing on this path would lead to an ecological and economic impasse.
although it has no legal value, this text encourages the commission to take action to meet the environmental challenge.
given that it would take a planet and a half to support the resource consumption of our global economy, it is high time we found sustainable access to raw materials.
the objective is to increase resource efficiency at european level by 30% by 2030. beyond the environmental benefits, this improvement could help create two million sustainable jobs and lead to an increase in gdp currently estimated at 1%.
to achieve this, legislative measures are needed, including new legislation on waste management before the end of the year.
on the question of food waste, i voted in favour of an ambitious target to reduce food waste and encouraged the establishment of agreements in the member states to distribute unsold food to charitable organisations.
‒ i supported this report on the circular economy and accompanying measures such as reducing waste generation and resource efficiency.
this is part of a more united europe and a first step in the fight against food waste.
the fight for the environment requires better waste management and new consumption habits.
this serves two purposes: to reduce our waste and to relieve the enormous pressure we are putting on our natural resources.
parliament proposed concrete measures to initiate this transition, including: introducing constraints to reduce energy waste by 30% on resources compared to 2014; increasing recycling targets to 70% for municipal waste by 2030 and 80% for packaging waste by 2030. while i welcome the collective awareness of these issues, i will remain vigilant to ensure that these proposals are translated into action.
this parliament's own-initiative report sets out the commission's proposals for the end of 2015. this is a series of incentive measures, including a policy of 'eco-design' of products; the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to take action to achieve 'zero waste', to impose very restrictive standards on buildings that actually consume energy and to renovate existing buildings to this end, to develop 'industrial synergies' to use cascading resources.
‒ the circular economy aims to reduce resource and raw material consumption and pollution by improving recycling, energy efficiency, reducing waste and improving product design.
some amendments from the right have weakened the resolution, removing the binding 2030 targets to maintain only a vague reference to 2050. the reduction of food or industrial waste, which accounts for a large proportion of waste, has been excluded from the scope of the directive, the industry lobby insists.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i know how important it is to reduce these levels in a public health objective.
the elected representatives of the national front on the environment committee had proposed to take inspiration from it.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in this context, the establishment of a capital markets union could create a coherent regulatory environment across the union and bring capital markets closer to smes with a view to stimulating financing of the real economy.
‒ with this motion for a resolution, the european parliament has expressed its desire to create a coherent regulatory environment across the union to encourage the development of capital markets.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
paragraph 58 is also revealing: 'stresses the importance of the free movement of persons and supports increased mobility within the neighbourhood area, in a safe and well-managed environment, through facilitation of visa issuance and visa liberalisation, in particular for students, young people, artists and researchers; calls on the commission to further encourage, in cooperation with the member states, partnerships for mobility within the neighbourhood and to develop the possibilities for circular migration schemes, which would open safe and legal pathways for migration.'
in this context, the text proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection offers several lines of thought.
the countries of the enp are thus first perceived in terms of their geopolitical interests, whether they are energy suppliers, outlets for european products or immigration gendarmes.
we will need to find an environment that protects creators and small authors while allowing free expression on the internet within the framework of net neutrality.
it is important to develop in europe an enabling environment for the cultural and creative sectors, which contribute to higher growth and employment.
i am committed to the principle of fair remuneration for the work and talent of authors and to the maintenance of sustainable funding mechanisms for cultural creation.
‒ the original aim of this text was to provide a country-by-country overview of the implementation of the 2001 copyright directive, particularly in the light of the new digital environment.
the challenge is also to continue to offer europe an environment favourable to economic activity, namely the cultural and creative sectors, which generate jobs (7.1 million jobs) that are not "delocalizable" and attractive to the younger generation.
i voted for this report which, thanks to the work and involvement of the socialists, proposes a whole series of balanced recommendations to the european commission in order to protect cultural diversity and the remuneration of authors, while guaranteeing the viability of this sector in an environment that is changing rapidly with the new information and communication technologies.
the european socialists and democrats have, however, managed to put aside these proposals that are dangerous for the sustainability and vitality of creativity in europe by finding a balance between the different stakeholders in order to strengthen a sustainable creative economy in europe.
by avoiding this bottom-up approach, the position of authors in the cultural landscape and the sustainability of european creation are strengthened.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which reaffirms the principle of fair remuneration for the work of creators and stresses the need to maintain sustainable funding mechanisms for cultural creation.
the challenge is important as it is a question of building an environment favourable to the cultural and creative sectors which creates jobs and remains attractive to the younger generation.
the fund has therefore been involved in supporting the processes of democratisation and the establishment of stable and sustainable democratic systems in the countries in transition.
the resolution calls, as does the un, for the postponement of presidential elections until a return to a climate of peace, the disarmament and dissolution of the ruling party's youth militias.
renewable marine energy, new propulsion for the ships of the future, selective fishing and marine biotechnologies - the list is not complete.
the ecological transition can find one of its best vectors here.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate our two rapporteurs, mrs giulia moi of the committee on agriculture and rural development and mrs renate sommer of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on their excellent work on cloning.
we must be vigilant to protect human health, the environment, animal welfare and the heritage of genetic diversity.
it has many aspects, first of all, of course, on the ethical side, concerning animal health and animal welfare, but also on the human health and biodiversity issues.
the report introduces new criteria for trade in game products by inuit and other local communities and puts a definitive end to the marketing of products from small-scale, non-profit-making fishing for the sole purpose of sustainable management of marine resources.
‒ preserving biodiversity is one of the topics i am committed to in the european parliament.
this is the 'grm derogation' which allowed 'products from small-scale, non-profit-making fishing for the sustainable management of marine resources'.
the report, however, denounces the second 'grm' derogation to allow small-scale sealing to ensure the sustainable management of these resources.
however, two exceptions remain: products from inuit hunting (ci derogation) and products from hunting for the sole purpose of sustainable, small-scale and non-profit-making management of marine resources (grm derogation).
i am against the use of private justice to arbitrate between the general human interest of protecting biodiversity and the interests of the seal traders.
it provides for two exemptions: the indigenous community exemption, which allows such trade if it is carried out by the inuit or any other 'indigenous community'; the derogation for the management of marine resources, which allows products from hunting for the sole purpose of sustainable management of marine resources.
since 2009, this trade has been prohibited in the european union, with the exception of products from hunts conducted by inuit or other indigenous communities ('ci derogation') and products from hunts conducted for the sole purpose of sustainable, small-scale and non-profit-making management of marine resources ('grm derogation').
- the grm (marine resources management) derogation authorising products from hunting for the sole purpose of sustainable management of marine resources.
as i said in the debate in plenary, the technique of cloning animals for farming purposes is a major risk to the independence of our agriculture and to biodiversity.
the "best of all worlds" also has an agricultural translation, that of the total loss of contact with nature, reality and biodiversity.
as a socialist and democrat, listening to the european citizens, it is essential for me to fight for the protection of human health, the environment, animal welfare and genetic diversity.
i therefore welcome the fact that the moi and sommer report supports the reasonable views of the european food safety authority (efsa), which has repeatedly expressed concern about the impact of cloning on human health or the environment.
citizens expect strong european rules to address very serious concerns about animal welfare, biodiversity and health risks.
there is still no evidence that these practices are not harmful to consumer health, the environment or animal welfare.
however, these technologies also have the potential to protect citizens and the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
family businesses are traditionally more long-term oriented and thus have sustainable and sound management processes.
the aim is to promote the sustainability of these businesses and to preserve local jobs in europe.
we call on the member states to create the appropriate conditions to promote their sustainability.
however, it lacks a focus on economic and environmental cooperation in the mediterranean and black sea basins.
optimizing shipping by a border carbon tax is one area which the report should have considered in its analysis of the shipping sector.
the proposals on energy seem to be relevant.
‒ the main positive aspect of this report on the job and growth potential of research and innovation in the blue economy is that it is comprehensive and covers a wide range of issues (fisheries, transport, energy, shipbuilding, etc.).
it takes into account all aspects of each issue such as the added value of public action, the management of fish stocks, the preservation of the marine ecosystem, the need for support for the shipbuilding sector.
finally, the report ignores the long-term and sustainable development of the tourism industry.
the text stresses the importance of taking advantage of these sectors while ensuring the preservation of the environment.
the report proposes a roadmap for the development of sea-related growth, particularly in sectors such as marine energy, shipping, the exploitation of underwater mineral resources and fisheries.
the blue growth strategy, which is a long-term strategy, aims to support sustainable growth in the marine and maritime sectors as a whole.
this report is a response to the europe 2020 strategy for smart and sustainable growth.
the report lacks several points raised by the enl group, such as the state of economic and environmental cooperation in the mediterranean basin and the optimisation of maritime transport by means of a carbon tax levied at the border.
creating new jobs while respecting our oceans and the environment is a challenge that europe can win.
‒ we must be leaders in blue growth in europe by promoting a new programme for research and employment in the maritime sector (seaproducts, shipbuilding, shipping, tourism, energy, rare metals).
the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide a framework for the development of the marine environment, including the management of marine resources.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
the proposals on energy seem to be relevant.
the measures proposed in this report are to promote innovation and job creation in all sectors related to the seas and oceans (from fisheries to shipbuilding and the exploitation of mineral and energy resources).
scientists point out that many of the major challenges facing our societies today could be solved by better understanding of the marine environment.
‒ this ferreira report on the job and growth potential of research and innovation in the blue economy covers a wide range of eu competences (fisheries, transport, energy, shipbuilding, etc.).
it takes into account all aspects of each issue such as the added value of public action, the management of fish stocks, the preservation of the marine ecosystem, the need for support for the shipbuilding sector.
finally, the report ignores the long-term and sustainable development of the tourism industry.
it is not thinking of partnerships with the mediterranean countries to solve economic and environmental problems.
in addition, the text does not address the issues of sustainable development and the tourism industry, which are essential for the blue economy.
this is about protecting, restoring and conserving ecosystems, biodiversity, resilience and productivity of the seas and oceans .
the report stresses the importance of developing innovative sources of clean energy, called 'blue' energy, such as tidal energy, wave energy or osmotic energy, and calls for the results of publicly funded research to be in the public domain for non-commercial uses (by preserving data which are of strategic importance to the member states).
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
the proposals on energy seem to be relevant.
the report does not really mention the state of economic and environmental cooperation in the mediterranean and black sea basins.
this ferreira report on the job and growth potential of research and innovation in the blue economy covers a wide range of eu competences (fisheries, transport, energy, shipbuilding, etc.).
it takes into account all aspects of each issue such as the added value of public action, the management of fish stocks, the preservation of the marine ecosystem, the need for support for the shipbuilding sector.
finally, the report ignores the long-term and sustainable development of the tourism industry.
i voted in favour of this report, which encourages member states to promote innovation in all sectors related to the sea and oceans: fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland waterway transport, ports and logistics, tourism, pleasure boating, cruises, shipbuilding and repair, maritime and coastal defence works, exploration and exploitation of mineral and energy resources at sea and biotechnology.
as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy, i support these measures, which will create new jobs and generate growth.
they are to promote innovation to create new jobs and generate growth in all sectors related to the sea and oceans: fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and river transport, ports and logistics, tourism, leisure, cruises, shipbuilding and repair, maritime and coastal defence works, exploration and exploitation of mineral and energy resources at sea and biotechnology.
i welcome the fact that this report takes an environmentally friendly, progressive and innovative approach by proposing a sustainable use of the potential of the seas and oceans.
‒ this report on the job and growth potential of research and innovation in the blue economy covers a wide range of eu competences (fisheries, transport, energy, shipbuilding, etc.).
it takes into account all aspects of each issue such as the added value of public action, the management of fish stocks, the preservation of the marine ecosystem, the need for support for the shipbuilding sector.
finally, the report ignores the long-term and sustainable development of the tourism industry.
in order to boost the growth potential of this economy, the union has put in place a strategy called 'blue growth' which aims to promote sustainable growth in the marine and maritime sectors.
yet the so-called blue economy (economic activities linked to the seas and oceans such as fishing, renewable ocean energy or ports and shipping) still only accounts for 3 to 5% of european gdp.
it also encourages the development of ecoresponsible and sustainable fisheries and aquaculture practices with the support of the member states.
the report does not really mention the state of economic and environmental cooperation in the mediterranean and black sea basins.
optimizing shipping by a border carbon tax is one area which the report should have considered in its analysis of the shipping sector.
there is no shortage of challenges to developing a sustainable common policy in this area.
ensuring the fundamental balance between economic, social and environmental interests in relation to the potential of this area is fundamental.
the report highlights the need for public investment in marine research and innovation to promote sustainable development in the sector.
this sustainable development must be achieved first and foremost by supporting small-scale fishing, in particular by regulating illegal fishing and the industrial exploitation of fishery resources, as this report advocates.
i also welcome the fact that the concept of 'blue energy' is a leitmotif of this report, and that it puts wind and ocean-current energy and the promotion of organic aquaculture at the centre of its concerns.
the resolution examines the issues of funding, legal bases and digitisation of heritage, highlighting its importance and links with regional development, social cohesion, agriculture, the environment, education, tourism and the labour market.
the resolution examines the issues of funding, legal bases and digitisation of heritage, highlighting its importance and links with regional development, social cohesion, agriculture, the environment, education, tourism and the labour market.
the resolution examines the issues of funding, legal bases and digitisation of heritage, highlighting its importance and links with regional development, social cohesion, agriculture, the environment, education, tourism and the labour market.
it advocates the exclusion of water-related services from free trade agreements and the recognition of the responsibility of chemical and intensive agriculture for water pollution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of water.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
the recognition of the responsibility of chemical and intensive agriculture in water pollution.
it advocates a prohibition in principle of any water cut-off, which would legitimize all abuses in a context where there is a social price for water and accompanying measures to help the poorest households to access water and energy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation is based on the principle of the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation, which is also a principle of the directive.
mr president, commissioner, i fully agree with what mr fernandes has just said about the new protocols, about compliance with the regulations and, above all, about compliance with environmental problems and the fact that parliament must be informed on each occasion.
the principle of mutual interest, sustainable governance, review clauses in the event of violations of human rights or commitments to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and finally, respect for the surplus, as defined by the latest scientific advice, that european vessels are allowed to fish.
the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources is at the heart of these fisheries agreements.
the cfp must promote sustainable fisheries governance at european and international level.
the international presence of european industry in countries with which we have concluded sustainable fisheries agreements makes it possible to supply the european market while developing local fishing activity in third countries.
we must therefore ensure that it is supplied with quality products, while respecting the principles of sustainable fishing in its environmental, social and economic dimensions.
efforts are being made to invest in infrastructure, support local populations and preserve biodiversity, but nothing is being done to prevent overfishing, as evidenced by the increase in european fishing quotas.
in order to meet our sustainability and development challenges, our fisheries agreements can be powerful levers, but to do so we need to be bolder in demanding more control, strengthening scientific monitoring of species and, of course, fostering development in third countries.
the delegated act with the philippines opening the floodgates to untraceable and uncontrolled seafood and the agreement with thailand, a country that is reported to be using fishermen as slaves on board ships, show the urgency of revising the terms of our trade agreements, which should integrate these environmental and social issues.
under the pretext of combating global warming and road safety, this document is in fact intended to reinforce once again the control of the european bureaucracy to the detriment of the member states.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the financial contribution will enable access to water and the sustainable development of small-scale fisheries in guinea-bissau.
the partnership gives european fishermen access to part of the untapped fish stocks in the republic of guinea-bissau, while strengthening cooperation between the two parties in the framework of a development partnership for a sustainable fisheries policy.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because it has a dual purpose: to supply the european market while promoting sustainable fishing in guinea-bissau.
european fisheries rules must take care of the environment.
the aim is to promote sustainable and artisanal fishing, while strengthening the prevention of illegal fishing in the exclusive economic zone (eez) of guinea-bissau.
these proposals are in my view a step in the right direction and will promote sustainable management of resources.
‒ as with the recommendation, i voted in favour of the report as it allows the establishment of sustainable fisheries in guinea-bissau.
as such, the parties agreed to establish a rigorous monitoring mechanism to ensure sustainable exploitation of the resources.
this agreement with cape verde will allow european fishermen to expand their fishing grounds, while respecting the environment and increasing the possibility of scientific research on local fisheries and environmental resources.
the protocol authorises 71 european vessels to fish in cape verdean territorial waters for a financial compensation of eur 3 300 000. the development of semi-extensive, reversible aquaculture with no significant environmental impact is possible within the eu.
as such, the parties agreed to establish a rigorous monitoring mechanism to ensure sustainable exploitation of the resources.
as such, the parties agreed to establish a rigorous monitoring mechanism to ensure sustainable exploitation of the resources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the text put to the vote raises concerns about the capture of sharks and asks the commission to inform parliament of the actions taken to obtain guarantees on the sustainable and responsible exploitation of these marine resources.
‒ the report put to the vote proposes to accept a partnership agreement whereby the european union can contribute to the sustainable development of local fishing activities in cape verde.
the resolution recalls that parliament must be informed at all stages of the procedure and that the latest scientific information on the state of stocks must be sent to it, which is in line with the principle of sustainable fisheries.
‒ as with the recommendation, i voted in favour of the report which allows sustainable fisheries in return for substantial development aid.
the protocol authorises 71 european vessels to fish in cape verde's territorial waters for a financial compensation of eur 3 300 000. the development of semi-extensive, reversible aquaculture with no significant environmental impact is possible within the eu.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the aim is to promote sustainable fishing, in the interests of both parties.
‒ this sustainable fisheries agreement has been provisionally applied since 1 january 2015. the protocol to this agreement allows 40 tuna seiners and 54 surface longliners from the european union to have access to malagasy waters.
the aim is to strengthen cooperation between the eu and madagascar in order to create a partnership for a sustainable fisheries policy.
this agreement with madagascar will allow european fishermen to expand their fishing grounds, while respecting the environment.
i reject the logic of going to fish on the other side of the world without concern for local fisheries and without social and environmental guarantees.
the aim is to promote sustainable fishing, in the interests of both parties.
i believe that this agreement does not offer adequate social and environmental guarantees in a country where civil society is faced with a situation of great poverty and where fisheries reserves are populated by protected species.
this agreement respects the rules established under the management mandate of the indian ocean tuna commission to promote sustainable management and consumption of madagascar's fishery resources.
the aim is to contribute to the growth of developing countries by creating a more favourable environment for business, especially smes.
i supported this report which recalls that this agreement creates a more favourable environment for businesses, especially smes, and that it should also allow consumers to have access to a greater range of products at low prices.
their participation will facilitate the wider implementation of this legal instrument, allowing the development of eu inland waterway transport for the benefit of citizens and the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
many of the economic, climate, environmental and social challenges europe continues to face are in fact manifested in cities and their peripheries, or are solved there (efficient resource management, low-carbon infrastructure).
the rapporteur has a good list of issues: climate change, demographic change and improving the education system.
he recalled that cities, which now host more than 70% of the population, face many challenges such as climate change and new demographic shifts.
let us introduce social and environmental criteria in public procurement so that priority is given to works which bring the greatest added value, not only economic but also social and environmental, rather than those which merely play the low-cost card.
reconcile the climate with the environment, reconcile the climate with the economy, reconcile the climate with the social, reconcile the climate with well-being but above all reconcile the climate with solidarity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this means that €350 billion will be invested to combat youth unemployment, to facilitate the financing of smes and to promote the energy transition.
the sustainability of our pension system based on a system of distribution, a model of solidarity between generations, would be at stake.
the sustainability of our pension system based on a system of distribution, a model of solidarity between generations, would be at stake.
the sustainability of our pension system based on a system of distribution, a model of solidarity between generations, would be at stake.
the sustainability of our pension system based on a system of distribution, a model of solidarity between generations, would be at stake.
however, i am opposed to this vision of ageing in which the concept of retirement is eliminated in order to maintain the employment rate of the elderly, to make the pension system sustainable, when other solutions, which are much simpler and fairer, are dismissed (making the tax system more progressive, allowing better account to be taken of the hardship, etc.).
under false pretexts such as global warming, this report calls on the commission to intervene in road taxation, advocates an increase in european funds allocated to transport policy and one of the stated objectives is to strengthen the interventionism of the european union in urban transport.
as for the passages on global warming, their ridiculous alarmism justifies the promotion of walking, cycling and gender-disaggregated modes of transport as well as the adoption of new regulations against carbon-emitting modes of transport.
this 2011 white paper on transport prepares the european transport area for the future (post-oil, climate change) and must make the transport system competitive and sustainable while ensuring a more efficient use of resources.
the eu is also committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2050. the funding of these projects would be based on public/private partnerships.
the report rightly proposes to streamline the measures implemented by regularly assessing their effectiveness and advocates the use of the most energy-efficient and sustainable modes of transport.
environment and growth are the main points of this white paper.
rationalisation, sustainability and reducing carbon emissions are the future for a more environmentally conscious europe that sees in this new economy an opportunity for growth and jobs.
i also wanted to support the issue of sustainable transport infrastructure and the completion of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) through the support of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi).
in addition, a better european transport system can reduce transport-related carbon emissions by 60% by 2050 and thus support more sustainable european mobility.
under false pretexts such as global warming, this report calls on the commission to intervene in road taxation and advocates an increase in european funds allocated to transport policy.
as for the passages on global warming, their ridiculous alarmism justifies the promotion of walking, cycling and gender-disaggregated modes of transport as well as the adoption of new regulations against carbon-emitting modes of transport.
we need to find less energy-intensive and cleaner modes of transport to meet the recommendations of the european commission, which in its white paper presented its strategy for a competitive transport system that will aim to increase mobility, but also to promote growth and employment.
the european commission has added some greening elements to take account of environmental requirements, but it is not the case at all.
under false pretexts such as global warming, this report calls on the commission to intervene in road taxation and advocates an increase in european funds allocated to transport policy.
as for the passages on global warming, their ridiculous alarmism justifies the promotion of walking, cycling and gender-disaggregated modes of transport as well as the adoption of new regulations against carbon-emitting modes of transport.
this 2011 white paper on transport prepares the european transport area for the future (post-oil, climate change) and makes the transport system competitive and sustainable while ensuring a more efficient use of resources.
‒ this 2011 white paper on transport prepares the european transport area for the future (post-oil, climate change) and makes the transport system competitive and sustainable while ensuring a more efficient use of resources.
on the climate front, i welcome the fact that this report calls on the commission to include a 40% reduction in co2 emissions from transport by 2030 in the climate and energy package to be adopted during this parliamentary term.
nevertheless, this text had its strengths and ambitions for sustainable transport.
by proposing the addition of a new 40% target for reducing co2 emissions from transport by 2030, the revision of the new vehicle emissions regulation to include heavy goods vehicles, and the revision of the eurovignette directive to include greener taxation, the text responds to the climate emergency.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain foodstuffs.
in the long term: tackling the root causes of migration, such as poverty, inequality and climate change.
it highlights progress in the fields of higher education, vocational training, the digital market, the energy sector, food safety and culture.
social entrepreneurship includes forms of entrepreneurship whose main purpose is social or environmental and where the majority of the profits are reinvested in that mission.
moreover, the social and solidarity economy is a sector which, although it is possible to maintain local jobs that cannot be relocated for people with low qualifications and which sometimes gives rise to some successes such as certain scops (for example in the context of the takeover of profitable businesses by its former employees), remains a largely illusory sector, since the remuneration of these jobs is often capped, the scope of these jobs is often narrow and can help only a limited number of people, the state aids granted are subject to little control and we have no concrete analyses on the long-term economic and environmental effects ... i therefore voted against this report.
‒ social entrepreneurship encompasses all initiatives that integrate social and environmental responsibility into their activities.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in the fight against unemployment, supporting better access to public procurement, better financing and the creation of a legal status of its own in the context of the europe 2020 strategy for this economy, which employs more than 14 million people in europe and is therefore particularly important both in terms of employment and social and environmental impacts.
social entrepreneurship includes forms of entrepreneurship whose main purpose is social or environmental and where the majority of the profits are reinvested in that mission.
moreover, the social and solidarity economy is largely illusory, since the remuneration of these jobs is often capped, which encourages social dumping, the scope of these jobs is often narrow and can only help a limited number of people, the state aids granted are subject to little control, the long-term economic and environmental effects are little analysed, etc.
social entrepreneurship includes forms of entrepreneurship whose main purpose is social or environmental and where the majority of the profits are reinvested in that mission.
moreover, the social and solidarity economy is largely illusory, since the remuneration of these jobs is often capped, which encourages social dumping, the scope of these jobs is often narrow and can only help a limited number of people, the state aids granted are subject to little control, the long-term economic and environmental effects are little analysed, etc.
several criticisms can be made: - social and solidarity jobs are very often capped in terms of remuneration, which contributes to social dumping; - this strategy applies to a relatively narrow range of jobs, and therefore could only help a limited number of people for a major investment; - the lack of means of controlling the use of funds granted as state aid for the development of these companies; - the lack of impact study by the commission, and therefore of information on the long-term economic, social and environmental effects; - the possible (and likely) drift as to the privileged beneficiaries of this type of jobs, etc.
despite the crisis and the unprecedented destruction of jobs, the social and solidarity economy has proven its resilience, far superior to that of other types of enterprises, and its ability to create new jobs in an unfavourable economic environment.
the ep report stresses that the social economy is an important driver for achieving a more sustainable economic and financial model, which creates social and territorial cohesion and respects the environment, as mentioned in the eu treaties.
‒ with the unemployment rate in the european union exceeding 9.5% and youth unemployment at 25%, the creation of sustainable and quality jobs must be our main concern.
in this context, the european court of justice has delivered 31 judgments against member states, mainly in areas relating to consumer protection, the environment, transport or the internal market.
in addition, i strongly condemn the introduction of the possibility for the cjeu to fine states which have delays in transposition or the call on the commission to be more strict on the transposition of environmental directives in particular.
in this context, the european court of justice has delivered 31 judgments against member states, mainly in areas relating to consumer protection, the environment, transport or the internal market.
it also appears that many infringement procedures have been established in the fields of the environment, transport, the internal market and consumer protection.
in this context, the european court of justice has delivered 31 judgments against member states, mainly in areas relating to consumer protection, the environment, transport or the internal market.
in this context, the european court of justice has delivered 31 judgments against member states, mainly in areas relating to consumer protection, the environment, transport or the internal market.
but above all, i condemn the introduction by the lisbon treaty of the possibility for the court of justice of the eu, at the request of the commission, to impose penalties for late transposition without waiting for a second judgment or the call on the commission to take stricter measures against late transposition of environmental directives and to use more sanctions.
but it recalls or advocates a number of points to which i strongly oppose: the equal value of the charter of fundamental rights of the union with the treaties, the full transposition and effective implementation of the common european regime as a top priority, the innovation introduced by the treaty of lisbon whereby the court of justice, at the request of the commission, can impose penalties for delay in transposition without waiting for a second judgment, the call on the commission to propose a binding legal instrument on the administrative procedure for dealing with citizens' complaints, the invitation to the commission to take stricter measures against the late transposition of environmental directives and to use more restrictive measures, etc.
it's a waste.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite symbolic that the most important international climate summit since kyoto is taking place at a time when we are redefining international action for development.
in this european parliament report on cop21, we are advocating a legally binding agreement to limit the temperature increase to two degrees, the establishment, as soon as possible, of an operational green fund of $100 billion per year to combat the effects of climate change and also the development of credible ways to go beyond mere contributions from development aid and thus to feed the green fund with innovative financing.
i therefore urge the countries negotiating the financial transaction tax to allocate part of this revenue to the fight against climate change.
‒ this motion for a resolution sets out the broad political guidelines of the european commission for 2016. some of their objectives are commendable, such as the desire to promote the development of smes and the energy transition, to combat mass unemployment, especially among young people, and to reduce social inequalities.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i voted in favour of this report, which focuses on better ways of legislating and assessing the impact of draft legislation, particularly in economic, social and environmental terms.
we also need to manage the transition to the digital society, establish an energy union that respects climate and environmental commitments, create a europe that is strong diplomatically, guarantee a judicial area in which european citizens are safe, etc.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with just a few weeks to go until cop21 in paris, and with the international community having just adopted the new sustainable development goals, this report and this debate are timely.
the 11th sustainable development goal on cities now allows local authorities to be fully recognised as central actors in international cooperation.
the protocol strengthens preventive measures to combat forced labour in a sustainable way and aims to protect victims of this scourge.
what is this 16.3 million euro compared to the gigantic waste to which we have become accustomed in the european union?
their increase, as we saw in nice recently, demonstrates the urgency of ecological planning, while the wild european liberalization leaves the states helpless in the face of climate change.
the funds thus released should make it possible to overcome the lack of liquidity which prevents the greek state and its local authorities from investing in new projects in order to restart sustainable growth and get out of the hole in which they are trapped.
the country is facing a liquidity shortage and a lack of public funds available to finance the investments needed to foster a sustainable recovery.
the social, environmental and monetary dumping they practice is never denounced by the european institutions, which deplore the effects of which they cherish the causes.
the european institutions should act upstream by fighting social, environmental, fiscal and monetary dumping by emerging countries instead of coming to the rescue of companies in receivership and workers made redundant.
‒ this own-initiative report highlights the importance of good local governance in developing countries in order to address the challenges of social exclusion, food security, rapid urbanisation, resource depletion, public security and violence, adaptation to climate change, and the rule of law and access to justice.
i fully support the need to maintain the development aid and decentralised cooperation budgets which are the driving forces in the fight against poverty, conflict, humanitarian and climate crises, and therefore will limit the massive flows of people which are destabilising for both the south and the north.
i believe that local authorities can be a driver of development and that is why i am advocating that they be associated with the sustainable development strategy.
this quality is due in particular to the political will of the central authorities to create a favourable environment at local level and to grant sufficient autonomy to adapt to the realities on the ground.
in this report, we want to emphasise the importance of involving the private sector and civil society in development programmes, but also call for the development of reliable sustainable development indicators.
the commission is therefore proposing to take greater account of civil society, minorities, environmental issues, etc.
finally, while it intends to define the new millennium development goals (mdgs), the report will not really have an impact on the global development agenda since the new mdgs (now the sustainable development goals) were just decided by the un in september.
these challenges include social exclusion, migration, food security, limited infrastructure, rapid urbanisation, resource depletion, public security and violence, environmental and social consequences of extractive activities, adaptation to and mitigation of climate change, the rule of law and access to justice.
good governance at local level is necessary to achieve sustainable development and equitable outcomes.
local authorities in developing countries, in coordination with other legitimate actors, will play a leading role in implementing the public policies needed to meet the post-2015 development social, economic and environmental objectives.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which underlines that good governance is fundamental to achieving sustainable development and equitable outcomes.
in this european year of development, it was important to recall that local authorities and public administrations must also be able to respond to current challenges such as migration, social exclusion, food security, security, the rule of law and climate change.
‒ with the adoption of the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the european union must be at the forefront of achieving the new goals.
‒ the millennium development goals, adopted in 2000, are far from being achieved and the un has just adopted 17 new sustainable development goals.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on emission measures in the automotive sector, by giovanni la via, vicky ford, jerzy buzek and michael cramer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism (o-000113/2015 - b8-0764/2015) (2015/2865 (((rsp)).
it is a real betrayal of consumers because their health is at stake, their environment is at stake, of public authorities and all those who, like me, defend a responsible, innovative and job-creating european industry.
i also wonder about the realism of our environmental legislation.
400 000 premature deaths are caused by pollution every year in europe.
if we want to protect the health of citizens and the climate, we need to change things in transport in europe.
fine particulate air pollution from diesel, that's enough!
the co2 emissions from the whole truck, that's enough!
the question is only approached from an ideological and environmental point of view, whereas it is primarily a technical question.
i would like to remind you of a basic law of thermodynamics: all combustion produces emissions, all is a proportion of the various gases emitted, but pollution remains.
volkswagen diesel engines no longer produce carbon monoxide, which is good for health and the environment, but a lot of nitrogen oxides, which is more objectionable, of course.
this brings us to the heart of the matter, for carbon monoxide, when in contact with nitrogen dioxide, would convert it into simple nitrogen, a perfectly harmless gas.
the mistake of its engineers was to produce powerful engines that produced little carbon dioxide and a lot of nitrogen dioxide, when they claimed otherwise.
from a legal point of view, it's a big scandal, but from an environmental point of view, what they did is neutral.
the american standards are impossible to meet for small cars and they were not set to protect the environment but to undermine the irresistible rise of the european volkswagen group, which in july 2015 became the world's leading car manufacturer.
the environmental aspect is only a tool for the use of antagonistic powers.
the environment is a lever of protectionism in the 21st century.
with the volkswagen scandal, we are faced with a health and environmental crime, we are faced with an organized gang scam, we are faced with tax evasion and, in the end, you are not proposing anything serious.
mr president, for the past 20 years the european union has been steadily raising its standards for road vehicle emissions to combat the scourge of air pollution and to try to curb climate change, but the levels of emissions are still above the current standards.
the european union has for too long turned a blind eye to the shortcomings of pollution tests which do not reflect real emission conditions.
last june the socialists in the committee on transport and tourism had already taken the initiative of tabled amendments in favour of real-world pollution tests.
does the commission intend to set up an autonomous european agency for the control of pollutant emissions?
madam president, commissioner, with only a few weeks to go until the cop 21 in paris, the limitation of our greenhouse gas emissions and the defence of air quality are at the heart of our concerns.
again, anything we can do to combat climate change and improve the air we breathe must be done.
we have succeeded in limiting the emissions of pollutants such as nitrogen dioxide, which are very harmful to health and the environment.
the addition by the european parliament of the carbon monoxide emission inventory will also provide the information needed to compel the commission to legislate as soon as possible.
no doubt the energy lobby has been through here.
the democratic transition currently under way in this country, guarantor of the achievements of the arab spring, which tunisia spearheaded, must be based on sustainable economic and social development.
i voted in favour of this report, which i believe contributes to creating a more favourable economic environment for consumers and businesses within the internal market.
‒ with a rated thermal output between 1 and 50 mw, medium combustion plants are used in a wide range of applications and fall between small plants covered by the ecodesign directive (2009/125/ec) and large combustion plants covered by the industrial emissions directive (2010/75/eu).
the report aims to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust.
this text is in line with these standards which are hostile to industry under the guise of a risky environmental and public health benefit.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it sets limits for sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides emissions from medium combustion plants, such as electricity generators or domestic or industrial heating systems.
‒ i voted in favour of the gryzb report because it allows for a limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere.
the scope has been extended by the addition of carbon monoxide, and stricter limits have been introduced in areas where air quality does not meet european standards.
‒ i voted against this report on a draft directive to limit the emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere: this directive is likely to seriously harm our industries, which are already heavily penalized by unfair competition encouraged by the ultra-liberal eurocrats in brussels.
‒ this report on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere must fill a certain legislative gap concerning medium fuel installations used for example in the production of electricity, heating, heat production for industrial purposes... it must also contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides (nox), sulphur dioxide (so2) and dust.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations.
this text, with its binding requirements and its apparently hazardous environmental or health effects, is contrary to the general european and national interests and will cost industry.
‒ the aim of this text is to fill the legal vacuum surrounding the emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants.
in order to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide, the report requires member states to set a stricter emission limit.
the commission often praises the merits of green growth, that is to say, an increase in production which would preserve the environment.
let them first fight the unbridled globalisation that has caused a sharp rise in co2 emissions, before they impose unnecessary new regulations.
this requires the introduction of limits on certain pollutants in order to achieve the environmental objectives set.
this legislation regulates emissions of pollutants from medium combustion plants.
i voted for this report which combines environmental protection with economic realism.
‒ the aim of this text is to fill a legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust.
regulatory changes are the responsibility of the member states and are a burden on industry, as they require member states to apply a stricter emission limit in areas that do not comply with the european air quality standard, to establish strengthened provisions on the level of emissions achievable for new technologies, to register or to grant a permit to an existing installation at least one year before the date of compliance.
the commission has introduced community standards, and the text is contrary to the national and general european interests by laying down provisions which are unfavourable to industry for the sake of environmental protection.
‒ the report aims to introduce a permitted pollution limit value for medium-sized fuel installations in europe, feeding electricity generators, household networks and industries.
while revising the list of targeted pollutants and introducing new pollution limit values, the report also provides for a reduction in the administrative burden for these installations.
i believe that this report strikes a balance between reducing emissions, protecting the health of european citizens and reducing the administrative burden on the companies concerned.
i supported the text on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants.
more generally, and in view of cop21, it is desirable that the european union should push member states to take more action against global warming.
they are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter (fine particulate matter) emissions.
‒ the gryzb report deals with the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere, and thus regulates emissions from medium-sized combustion plants (1 to 50 mw), which was not covered by the commission's initial proposal.
finally, carbon monoxide will have to be monitored by the commission, which will have to take account of the results of its study on this pollutant.
i welcome this important step forward in the management of emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere.
‒ our colleague grzyb's report proposed limiting the emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants.
by further disrupting industry and associated jobs, for a limited ecological benefit, this proposal reveals a clear imbalance in the consequences of this future regulation, to the detriment of economic activities.
while environmental policy is at the heart of my commitment to the european parliament, i cannot accept a disproportionate burden for an already weakened french industry.
‒ i voted against this report because the alleged environmental benefits are still small compared to the standards that are binding on industry.
‒ ahead of the world climate conference in paris in december 2015, the eu has proposed a directive to limit emissions of certain pollutants to help improve air quality.
i think this approach is proportionate in that it balances the need to preserve our industries while encouraging them to promote less polluting techniques and the collective will to fight air pollution.
these plants therefore fall between small plants which are covered by the ecodesign directive (2009/125/ec) and large combustion plants which are covered by the industrial emissions directive (2010/75/eu).
the aim of this text is therefore to fill a certain legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust.
this text is in line with these standards which are hostile to industry, but which are disguised as a risky benefit to the environment and public health.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague andrzej grzyb on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere.
‒ i voted against the report on 'limiting emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere'.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers in the event of accidents at work is a very good one.
‒ i voted against this text because it is aimed at reducing pollution by nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide, but it seems to be unfavourable to french and european industries for a very risky ecological benefit.
‒ this is a proposal for a directive to limit emissions from a certain category of combustion plants in the 'medium' category (rated thermal output between 1 and 50 mw).
they are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions, and are currently not regulated at eu level (while small and large installations are).
the commission's thresholds are still too high and the right wing is trying to exclude the peripheral regions of the eu from the scope of the directive, but it is in the direction of reducing emissions of pollutants, so i am voting in favour.
these plants therefore fall between small plants which are covered by the ecodesign directive (2009/125/ec) and large combustion plants which are covered by the industrial emissions directive (2010/75/eu).
the aim of this text is therefore to fill a certain legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust.
the text thus follows in the footsteps of these standards which are hostile to industry, but which are concealed by a risky environmental and public health benefit.
‒ the text aims to set a framework for pollutant emissions from medium combustion plants, those between small plants covered by directive 2009/125/ec (so-called 'eco-design') and large combustion plants, which are covered by directive 2010/75/eu (the 'industrial emissions' directive).
the aim of this text is therefore to fill a certain legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust.
despite an apparently laudable objective, it imposes standards outside the commission's purview for a very risky environmental and public health benefit.
this report on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere aims to fill a legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of nitrogen oxide pollution.
most of these measures, devised by the most technocratish brains in the commission, will certainly have a negative impact on industry, while the environmental benefits seem to be very small... i therefore decided to vote against this absolutely harmful text which would pollute the legal environment of national industries.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the regulation of emissions from combustion plants with an output of between 1 and 50 mw.
the aim is to harmonise operating conditions in the eu and to fight for environmental protection while maintaining the flexibility needed to avoid putting energy companies at risk.
by setting maximum emission limits for the most harmful pollutants for health and the environment (sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and co2) from medium-sized combustion plants, this directive aims to strengthen health and safety standards for plants which until now have depended solely on national standards.
‒ this report on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere aims to fill a legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides.
most of these measures, devised by the most technocratic brains in the commission, will certainly have a negative impact on industry, while the environmental benefits seem to be very small.
i have therefore decided to vote against this absolutely harmful text which would pollute the legal environment of national industries.
‒ in order to achieve the 2030 climate targets, the union is trying to reduce air pollution by limiting emissions from certain pollutants.
the european parliament adopted a resolution on the regulation of emissions from medium-sized combustion plants (from 1 to 50 mw).
the member states had made very lax proposals to limit emissions, but environmentalists fought to improve the text.
we have gotten measures to be taken to increase the energy efficiency of these facilities.
‒ at present, emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants i.e.
that is why i voted in favour of the resolution to limit emissions from medium combustion plants.
with more than 400 000 deaths a year attributed to air pollution, and with its considerable environmental impact and economic damage, action is urgently needed to ensure better air quality for european citizens.
it should also be noted that the commission will have to take into account the results of its study on carbon monoxide, which is subject to monitoring.
‒ while pollutant emissions from small and large combustion appliances are covered by european legislation, there is a legal vacuum on medium combustion appliances.
the epp rapporteur wanted to lower the ambitions of the european commission, but the socialists fought back and 150 000 appliances will have to meet new ecological requirements.
on the eve of cop 21 in paris, i therefore voted in favour of this report, to enable the european commission to propose binding legislation quickly, which will enable us to continue to achieve our objectives in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ the aim of this text is to fill a legislative gap and to contribute to the reduction of pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers in the event of accidents at work is a very good one.
‒ the report proposes to limit greenhouse gas emissions from medium combustion plants, i.e.
this category has not been covered by european standards until now, although it is a major source of gas emissions and concerns nearly 150 000 installations in the european union used for domestic or industrial purposes.
i am voting for this directive, however, because its aim is to reduce emissions of polluting gases and it allows the european parliament to send a new signal a few weeks before cop 21.
in writing.
unfortunately, the criterion of the 'most economically advantageous tender' may seem attractive or even necessary from the point of view of public finances, but it hinders local production and undermines environmental criteria.
it includes new principles for public procurement and a clause on compliance with sustainable development rules.
the commission's initial text does not make any major changes to the previous directives (even though it reinforces the allocation rule allowing smes to apply more easily), but it adds some critically important criteria such as 'allocation on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer', which favours the lesser of two evils to the detriment of 'producing locally' and social or environmental criteria.
new provisions are introduced, such as the obligation to comply with environmental and social law or the method of awarding contracts on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender.
the commission's initial text does not make any major changes to the previous directives (even though it strengthens the allocation rule allowing more smes to apply), but adds some critically important criteria such as 'allocation on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer', which favours the least-favoured at the expense of 'producing locally' and social or environmental criteria.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the new directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission's initial text does not make any major changes to the previous directives (even though it strengthens the allocation rule allowing more smes to apply), but adds some critically important criteria such as 'allocation on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer', which encourages the least-favoured-nation to the detriment of 'producing locally' and social or environmental criteria.
these amendments relate to the introduction of new provisions such as market consultation, better compliance with environmental, social and labour law and control of the award method on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender by subjecting it to compliance with the abovementioned standards.
unfortunately, the draft directive does not provide for this, but, beyond securitisation, the real question is whether the economic environment is such that banks will be willing to finance projects to create value and jobs.
the environment resulting from the ultra-liberal economic model of the european union is still as negative.
this is an undeniable fact, confirmed by fatih birol, the new executive director of the international energy agency.
definitely a waste.
that is what we need more than ever if we are to regain a climate of lasting peace in europe, rather than this new cold war that you have started.
as the european commission has made the security and diversification of energy supplies one of its priorities in the context of the energy union, i regret that this agreement is contrary to our interests.
moreover, instability among energy producing or transit countries such as ukraine, the middle east and north africa calls for greater unity and solidarity among member states.
europe now imports 55% of its gas, which is why we must have a more coordinated energy policy and a genuine energy diplomacy, so as to have a greater say in the negotiations with our partners.
we must seriously consider, with certainly thorough studies, whether we can distinguish between, on the one hand, the real cases of discrimination against women, which are absolutely intolerable, unjustifiable and incomprehensible, given the waste that this represents and the female potential that is thus disregarded and set aside, and, on the other hand, the too many obstacles, glass ceilings and other obstacles to women's progress.
- five years ago, hungary was faced with the rupture of a waste tank, which had dramatic consequences.
on 4 october 2010, a waste tank in hungary burst, causing considerable pollution and killing ten people.
the positive aspect, which is the call for member states to strengthen their national environmental inspection bodies, is unfortunately drowned out by the calls for more and more europe.
the accident had caused an ecological disaster and caused the death of 10 people.
the text calls on the eu member states to strengthen their environmental legislation, in particular through the control bodies, but above all it proposes to give more power to the european institutions.
‒ on 4 october 2010, the rupture of a waste reservoir in hungary led to the release of nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, which caused flooding in several villages, resulted in the death of ten people, injured nearly 150 and polluted large areas of land, including four natura 2000 sites.
we also call on the member states and the european commission to ensure better enforcement of european legislation and to consider additional measures to eliminate pollution from mining activities in the future.
more generally, this resolution calls for better management of our hazardous waste.
i have reserved a paragraph on the drafting of a legislative proposal on access to justice in environmental matters by the end of 2016. i am in favour of access to environmental justice, but such a proposal is not feasible before the end of 2016. it is worth thinking about and working on so that its development and application are perfect.
‒ on 4 october 2010, the rupture of a waste reservoir in hungary led to the release of nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, caused flooding in several villages, killed ten people, injured nearly 150 and polluted large areas of land, including four natura 2000 sites.
that is why i did not hesitate to support this resolution, which reminds us of our responsibility as legislators in ecological and environmental matters.
‒ five years ago, hungary was facing the dramatic consequences of a ruptured waste tank.
although article 15 calls on 'member states to strengthen their national environmental inspection bodies', this possibility was immediately mired in a torrent of calls for strengthening at community level.
the text takes stock of the consequences of this environmental disaster and the shortcomings in the implementation of european standards in this field and raises a number of concerns about the evolution of the level of control in europe of installations similar to those where the accident occurred.
‒ this disaster, which left 10 dead and 150 injured due to the rupture of a waste tank in hungary, must not happen again.
on 4 october 2010, a waste tank in hungary ruptured, causing considerable pollution and resulting in the deaths of ten people.
the only point to be made is article 15, which directly calls on 'the member states to strengthen their national environmental inspection bodies'.
this disaster had caused the death of ten people and caused considerable pollution in hungary.
while we are in favour of strengthening national environmental inspection bodies, we cannot support this empty shell.
‒ on 4 october 2010, the collapse of a waste tank in hungary released nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud containing aluminium, which flooded several villages, killed ten people, injured nearly 150 and polluted large areas of land, including four natura 2000 sites.
five years later, the european parliament seized the opportunity to call for better prevention of industrial disasters, including those linked to mining waste and waste in general.
the resolution also calls for legislation on access to justice in environmental matters, the establishment of a 'european system for risk-sharing in the event of industrial plant disasters' and better application of the polluter-pays principle.
‒ five years ago, hungary was facing the dramatic consequences of a ruptured waste tank.
although article 15 calls on 'member states to strengthen their national environmental inspection bodies', this possibility was immediately mired in a torrent of calls for strengthening at community level.
the only basis for the various measures being the publicity provided by this date, they inevitably call for an increase in the commission's powers in environmental matters and a strengthening of the european legislative arsenal under the old custom of 'more europe'.
‒ in 2010, a ruptured waste tank in hungary led to the release of nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud.
the mud flooded several villages, killing 10 people and injuring 150. they have caused extensive damage and pollution to large areas of land, including four natura 2000 sites.
in particular, member states are asked to take account of the classification of red sludge as hazardous waste within the meaning of directive 91/689/eec and to monitor existing basins.
i believe it is important to set safety requirements for the management of waste from the extractive industry, to ensure its safety.
it should be remembered, however, that the transposition of the environmental liability directive has not resulted in equal responsibilities in all member states.
the only basis for the various measures being the publicity provided by this date, they inevitably call for an increase in the commission's powers in environmental matters and a strengthening of the european legislative arsenal under the old custom of 'more europe'.
‒ on 4 october 2010, a waste tank in hungary burst and over one million cubic metres of red mud was spilled, causing damage to the environment and the health of the surrounding population.
the european parliament wanted to stress the importance of this disaster and the need to ensure control of waste tanks.
the same applies to the bodies responsible for measuring the toxicity of industrial waste and the solutions for its treatment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we propose to create a social and ecological development fund dedicated to these new projects of the future.
secondly, it should be remembered that climate change will be an aggravating factor in the migration problem.
today, in good times and bad, we have 24 million displaced persons and refugees, because of wars, dictatorships, but also because of the climate and climate change.
again, if nothing is done, we will have a temperature rise of 4.5 to 6 degrees by the end of the century and we will have 200 million climate refugees worldwide.
we have included in this report ambitious climate targets for the planet and for europe.
first, the total elimination of greenhouse gas emissions worldwide by 2050, but also the reduction of at least 40% of these emissions in europe by 2030. we also aim to increase the share of renewable energy in europe to 30% by 2030 and to increase the energy efficiency of our continent by 40% by 2030. without such goals, we will not trigger the paradigm shift we so badly need to address climate change.
another proposal is to set a global 'carbon price' to make the least polluting technologies the most attractive to investors.
we are also making proposals on the use of ets credits to finance the fight against climate change.
the price of ets credits has fallen dramatically in recent years in europe, making it unable to effectively finance the fight against climate change.
we must be aware that we must give a hand to the developing countries, which are the most affected by the consequences of climate change.
i would like to welcome the commitment of the french presidency, but also of all parties, and i would also like to recall how climate change is an opportunity to seize to initiate new economic growth in the world but also in europe, green growth, and to put in place a new energy policy that not only supports employment but also the purchasing power of 500 million europeans.
european countries are expected to shoulder the burden of the world's environmental problems.
yet europe has been reducing its greenhouse gas emissions for years.
yes, we have invested, built and developed innovative, clean and sustainable structures.
indeed, just because there is an agreement in paris does not mean that we will have found the solution to climate change and its accompanying disruptions (floods, hurricanes, droughts) that we are observing more and more frequently.
we are less than 11% of the world's co2 emissions.
in this area, the involvement of non-state actors alongside governments is crucial in climate action.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gilles pargneaux, on his excellent work, which will send a strong and clear signal that the european union will be at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
yes, transport, which accounts for a quarter of the total co2 emissions of the european union and is the only sector whose emissions will continue to grow, must and can play its part in the objective of keeping global warming below 2 degrees.
without a strong awareness of the role of transport in a context of increasing urbanisation to reduce co2 emissions, we will not be able to achieve the cop 21 targets.
we must call on the commission and the member states to raise awareness among all stakeholders of the issues that link transport and the fight against global warming.
i would like to say to the climate sceptics that it is fortunate that our report is widely adopted tonight.
we are fortunate to have an agreement in paris, because it will not only help to fight climate change, but also to change the paradigm and to set up a new economy based on green growth and a new energy policy, to allow a rise in purchasing power, especially for the most modest.
cop21 is a key meeting in the fight against global warming.
we must set ourselves ambitious targets for reducing co2 emissions.
if climate change is already causing disruption and population displacement, tomorrow, in ten, thirty or a hundred years, these phenomena will be unmanageable.
europe alone accounts for only 11% of global co2 emissions.
we cannot lead the energy transition and preserve the competitiveness of our economy without the commitment of emerging economies and developing countries.
the ability of these countries to adapt to a low-carbon economic model will therefore play a major role.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ this report is part of the right path of climate correctness.
it is a matter of distilling fear once again on the pretext of global warming, a warming which is very much exaggerated and whose human origins are not at all scientifically proven.
the consequence of this climate alarmism is the deindustrialisation of europe, which de facto leads to an increase in imports and therefore the shipping of large cargo ships hungry for fuel... the hypocrisy is obvious, but as a result of years of ideological and pseudo-scientific bullying by the ipcc in particular, no one dares to take offense, except for a few courageous scientists and journalists.
what about those countries which, like the united states, say they are concerned about the climate and impose international constraints which they themselves do not respect?
these large climate masses are sources of colossal waste in the service of globalism.
today, instead of the defense of the fatherland, the climate is protected and the need for a world government is established!
the proposals are counterproductive and harmful: they only move low-polluting production to countries with lower standards, encourage globalisation (more and more trade, therefore transport, and therefore polluting emissions) and deprive europe of its industrial and therefore economic power.
if we want to save our ecosystem, we must first relocate our economies.
the purpose of this report is to determine the position of the european parliament for the 21st conference of the parties on climate change.
‒ the report 'towards a new international climate agreement in paris' presents bad tools for bad decisions in order to avoid challenging globalist dogmas and weakening the power of member states.
‒ the purpose of this report is to determine the position of the european union at the 21st climate conference in paris.
the fight against global warming is one of the main challenges facing the states in the 21st century.
to combat climate change, the commission had already adopted a measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% between 1990 and 2030. it is clear that the member states of the union are far from having achieved their objectives in this area, since france is only at -13% while the union is at -18%.
as usual, the european authorities want to increase the environmental constraints and standards imposed on our companies in order to achieve their delusional objectives.
this policy is helping to deindustrialize our continent in favour of the emerging countries and the united states, which are less concerned about the environment and see it as an opportunity to increase their competitiveness.
from an ecological point of view, this policy is counterproductive, since the increase in imports to europe resulting from these relocations increases co2 emissions.
‒ the international climate conference, or cop 21, will be held in paris in december.
the aim of this conference is to put in place a new agreement that will have to be respected by all the countries of the world, in order to keep global warming below 2 °c.
the environmental situation in which we find ourselves requires immediate action.
we must reduce our emissions of polluting gases in order to limit the harmful effects on the planet.
‒ this own-initiative report sets out the mandate of the european parliament delegation to paris from 30 november to 11 december as part of the negotiations for the cop21 climate conference.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases by at least 40% by 2030 and to increase energy efficiency by at least 40% by 2030. the report also calls for a binding agreement and regular review of the commitments of the states.
it also makes proposals to fund the green fund, an annual €100 billion fund to help developing countries transition to a low-carbon economy.
i believe that the european parliament must send a strong message to the paris conference in favour of reducing global warming, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
i supported this text because the new climate agreement must be ambitious, universal and legally binding.
the text is intended to encourage all financial actors to refocus their investments to finance a real transition to low-carbon economies.
‒ france will host and chair the 21st conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change 2015 (cop21/cmp11), also known as paris 2015 , from 30 november to 11 december 2015. it is a crucial deadline, as it must lead to a new international climate agreement.
indeed, just because there is an agreement in paris does not mean that we will have found the solution to climate change and its accompanying disruptions (floods, hurricanes, droughts) that we are observing more and more frequently.
‒ as the cop21 climate conference approaches, the european parliament is taking a stand on yet another attempt to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the introduction of ever more stringent emission targets leads in fact to a shift of these emissions to countries which are less concerned about these rules, such as china, india or the united states, and ultimately generate much higher pollution.
the share of pollution attributable to world trade and trade is not addressed, another untouchable dogma.
this ecological repentance is not good for our economy or for solving the real problems of polluting emissions.
i therefore voted against this report, which is part of the mistake that the union repeats at every major climate summit, namely that europe could encourage emerging economies to prioritise ecology over economic development.
i want the paris agreement to be as binding as possible, for the benefit of our environment, our citizens and the competitiveness of our companies on the international stage.
when we know that the european union accounts for only 10% of global co2 emissions, we are forced to tackle the climate problem globally.
the conference should be an opportunity to support new low-carbon technologies by identifying and facilitating their deployment and investment.
the companies developing these technologies therefore have a key role to play in the implementation of such an international agreement: they will be the ones to carry out the innovative projects that will reduce emissions.
they must therefore be fully involved in this great climate conference.
‒ under the pretext that a global response to global warming is needed, the european institutions are overreaching by targeting industry.
the remedies proposed include, for example, directing investment towards so-called less polluting activities, which would help to deindustrialize europe and lead de facto to an increase in imports (how much pollution from cargo ships crossing the seas?)
in fact, a serious issue such as climate has unfortunately become, in the game of global competition, a weapon for the massive deindustrialization of europeans.
the only global climate enterprise that would be valid and fair would be an agreement on targets measured in per capita pollution and a relocation process that would respond to this mad rush to free trade.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague gilles pargneaux on the paris climate conference.
the text calls for an ambitious and legally binding climate agreement, underlining the important role of the eu, speaking with one voice and encouraging other participants to take the necessary measures to stay within the 2°c temperature increase limit.
the success of this climate conference is essential to prevent climate change from taking a dramatic turn, with serious consequences in the future if governments do not take their responsibilities today.
‒ i voted against this report because it unrealistically pushes the eu to be 'an example' in the fight against global warming.
the americans are cynically encouraging us, because they are using the climate debate as a weapon to massively deindustrialise europeans.
only a global agreement would really combat global warming.
cop 21, to be held in paris at the end of the year, must be concluded with a binding agreement if we are to hope to contain global warming below 2°c.
it proposes that the european union should lead by example and commit to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 and by 80-95% by 2050. unfortunately, this is less than the 50% we proposed, but it is the right direction.
‒ parliament is in favour of an 'ambitious, universal and legally binding agreement' for the 21st conference of the parties (cop) on combating climate change.
the eu is committed to a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions (compared to 1990 levels) by 2020 when it is already on a trend to reduce them by 23% without making any further efforts... similarly, while the text argues that limiting global warming to 2°c above pre-industrial levels is not enough, it does not commit to a target of 1.5°c.
finally, it fails to overcome the logic of green capitalism and consequently advocates the strengthening of the carbon market.
i abstain in order not to discourage parliament's environmental ambitions.
‒ under the pretext that a global response to global warming is needed, the european institutions are overreaching by targeting industry.
the remedies proposed include, for example, directing investment towards so-called less polluting activities, which would help to deindustrialize europe and lead de facto to an increase in imports (how much pollution from cargo ships crossing the seas?)
in fact, a serious issue such as climate has unfortunately become, in the game of global competition, a weapon for the massive deindustrialization of europeans.
the only global climate enterprise that would be valid and fair would be an agreement on targets measured in per capita pollution and a relocation process that would respond to this mad rush to free trade.
‒ the report proposes ambitious targets to reduce the causes of global warming, and in the first place industrialisation.
the pargneaux report, which is based on the principle that global warming must be tackled in a coordinated and global way, calls for a universal and binding target and for funding of 100 billion a year for developing countries.
for example, efforts are measured as an overall percentage, without taking into account pollution generated per capita; the measures requested contribute to the deindustrialisation of europe and thus to the increase of imports, ignoring the pollution caused by cargo ships sailing the seas.
the only line that can be drawn would be a truly global, binding agreement with targets measured in terms of per capita pollution and an end to the race for free trade to initiate a process of relocation that respects sovereignty.
the pargneaux report presents proposals for ambitious targets to be set by the european institutions for the international climate conference in paris in december.
in addition to the binding targets already set by the commission (-40% co2 emissions), the report proposes funding support of usd 100 billion per year for developing countries, transfer of funds mainly to the detriment of eu member states, and more and more stringent environmental rules for economic activities.
the biggest polluters, the united states and china, are far behind the eu, having perceived that the "climate" is a weapon of massive deindustrialization in their favour at the expense of the europeans.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which gives a clear mandate to the european parliament delegation to participate in the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, known as cop21.
this is a crucial deadline as it must lead to a new international climate agreement with the objective of keeping global warming below 2°c.
i agree with the ambition to reduce greenhouse gases by between 40% and 70% by 2050 compared to 2010 and to get close to zero emissions by the end of the century.
this report is intended to be a roadmap for the european parliament's engagement at the 21st un climate conference in paris very soon.
it called for binding legal measures to be included in the final text of the conference in order to achieve the objectives relating to global warming, in particular to keep it below 2°c.
it sets three main objectives: 30% renewable energy by 2030, 40% energy efficiency and 40% greenhouse gas reduction by 2020. it also called for a timetable for phasing out fossil fuel subsidies and for a comprehensive financing policy for developing countries to combat global warming.
i am voting in favour of this report, which gives an ambitious dimension to parliament's commitment to cop 21 and to the environment.
‒ the pargneaux report presents proposals for ambitious targets to be set by the european institutions for the international climate conference in paris in december.
in addition to the binding targets already set by the commission (-40% co2 emissions), the report proposes funding support of usd 100 billion per year for developing countries, transfer of funds mainly to the detriment of eu member states, and more and more stringent environmental rules for economic activities.
the biggest polluters, the us and china, are far behind the eu, having perceived that "climate" is a weapon of massive deindustrialisation in their favour at the expense of the people of europe.
‒ with a view to the international climate conference 'cop 21' in paris next december, the european parliament wanted to recall the climate challenges and the importance of reaching agreement on a global action plan.
i voted for this report and i believe it is important that all the member states of the union and other states commit themselves together and coordinate their actions in order to combat climate change effectively.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european union's strategy for a new international climate agreement to be concluded in paris at the end of 2015. the imminent global threat of global warming is no longer to be demonstrated and it is our duty to adopt ambitious measures urgently in order to achieve the objective of limiting warming to 2 °c.
it should aim to phase out global co2 emissions by around 2050. the question of financing is paramount, and we encourage the commission in particular to establish international carbon market mechanisms and to ensure that the least polluting technologies are attractive to investors.
finally, emissions from the transport sector, the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases, need to be reduced.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the european parliament's recommendations to the member states and the european union for the negotiations to take place at the united nations conference on climate change (cop21).
we must act to find solutions to global warming, which is translated into natural disasters with devastating effects.
the text calls for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and sets energy efficiency targets.
cop21 and actions on climate change must be an opportunity to strengthen the participation of all economic sectors and non-state actors in the search for and implementation of solutions.
these efforts have a disastrous result and contribute to the deindustrialization of europe in favour of even more imports and globalization, ignoring the pollution caused by cargo ships crossing the seas.
having perceived that "climate" is a weapon of massive deindustrialisation of europeans, in the geopolitical game of the powers, the americans give encouraging speeches.
‒ this report deals with the preparation of the 21st un climate conference, to be held in paris from 30 november to 11 december 2015, and is intended to be parliament's roadmap to that end.
the report rightly calls for the final text of cop 21 to be legally binding to eliminate global co2 emissions by 2050 in order to keep global warming below 2°c.
it advocates a triple target: a reduction of at least 40% of greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 levels, a 40% energy efficiency target and a 30% target by 2030 for renewable energy.
however, this report continues to support the european system for trading co2 emission allowances, the so-called 'carbon market', whose inefficiency and dangers are no longer to be demonstrated.
these mechanisms of "green capitalism" are only false ecological solutions.
these campaigns require considerable energy, considerable budgets.
without good governance and the rule of law, there can be no sustainable development: the two are interlinked.
we know how to prepare to stop global warming by 2040. but rescuing, sheltering, taking hundreds of thousands of refugees to our homes, we don't know.
we are the best at promising $100 billion to cool the climate in 20 years, but the european union cannot afford to increase the number of border guards by a few hundred.
we are absolutely opposed to this ultra-liberal policy which is putting our agricultural model, based on quality and respect for the environment, at risk.
the commissioner said that the commission had already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy was not undermined by the eu's energy policy.
‒ i supported this report, which is in line with the parliament's resolution of 17 june 2010. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ i voted against this joint motion for a resolution on emission measurement in the automotive sector because this text is actually more a matter of the european industrial strategy than a matter of the environment or public health.
another positive point is that the pollution thresholds for nitrogen oxide emissions, which were totally unrealistic, have been raised from 80 mg/km to 168 mg. however, this text contains several elements that run counter to the interests of the european automobile industry, which is already facing increased global competition.
co2 emissions are constantly denounced, even though their role in global warming (which is vastly overestimated) is far from scientifically proven.
finally, this proposal strengthens the union's powers and exaggerates the negative environmental impacts of diesel engines.
i regret that millions of consumers have been misled or misled by false information about the emissions of their vehicles.
‒ i voted against this text which considers a strategic industrial issue from a purely ecological point of view in the context of a global trade war.
the infringement by volkswagen is a real one, involving the emission of a pollutant, nitrogen dioxide (nox), while the diesel engines of the german car giant have indeed reduced emissions of carbon monoxide, a particle that oxidizes rapidly in the atmosphere to produce carbon dioxide.
the resolution, following the volkswagen scandal, was based on a false premise: the diesel engines involved in the infringement had emitted more nitrogen dioxide than was permitted; however, the text argues that this endangers public health without taking into account that the cars concerned have, on the other hand, emitted less carbon monoxide, a much more harmful gas.
this motion for a resolution deals with this offence only from an environmental point of view, whereas this is a strategic issue between two trading powers, germany and the united states.
the text also fails to mention that this infringement limits the emission of carbon monoxide, a gas which is extremely harmful to the environment.
since we do not currently have an effective technical or technological means of reducing the emissions of enteric methane (waste from livestock), i co-signed an amendment, the content of which was taken up by the plenary, to exclude these emissions from the directive, so as not to penalise the agricultural sector.
i believe that consumer confidence must be restored quickly and that there must be a thorough investigation into cases of fraud in car emissions tests.
‒ a few weeks ago, the us environmental protection agency (epa) revealed a large-scale fraud by the volkswagen group.
the german manufacturer has reportedly fitted some of its cars with software to conceal the real level of polluting gas emissions in the event of a check.
the fraud in car emissions tests must be thoroughly investigated and appropriate sanctions applied, but this must not be an opportunity to ideologically put diesel aside.
firstly, fraud in car emissions testing must be thoroughly investigated and appropriate sanctions applied.
secondly, given the scale of the crisis, it is imperative that europe establishes real-life emissions tests that respect legal emission limits and are fully implemented.
the fraud in car emissions tests must be thoroughly investigated and the appropriate sanctions applied, but this cannot be an opportunity to ideologically put diesel aside.
it strongly condemns fraud in emissions tests by car manufacturers and paves the way for thorough investigations.
it also calls for the revision of emissions tests so that they are carried out under real driving conditions by 2017, rather than in laboratories, and that they are extended to all pollutants.
it is also gratifying that the pollution limits for nitrogen oxide emissions, which were totally unrealistic, have been raised from 80 mg/km to 168 mg. however, this text, through some of its provisions, is contrary to the interests of the european automobile industry, which is already facing formidable global competition.
co2 emissions are constantly denounced, even though their role in global warming (which is vastly overestimated) is far from scientifically proven.
consequently, this proposal strengthens the eu's powers and exaggerates the environmental effects of diesel engines.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, following the volkswagen scandal, it was necessary for the european parliament to remind the member states and the european commission of their obligations in relation to pollution control and to stress the need to review the current system of car controls in europe.
‒ in this resolution on volkswagen's carbon emissions cheating, i supported the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry.
on the other hand, an amendment was adopted which maintains that diesel is a means of achieving our objectives of reducing carbon emissions.
a few days later, the technical committee for motor vehicles revised its test guidelines to allow exceeding its own pollution thresholds.
‒ the motion for a resolution tabled by the epp, s&d, alde and the greens follows the scandal of the german company volkswagen, which was accused of rigging its engines to falsify pollution tests.
at a time when international competition and economic warfare are raging, particularly against the united states, which has cleverly used this scandal to weigh down european car production, this resolution finds nothing better than to constrain the car industry by strengthening eu legislation and the commission's grip under the guise of good environmental sentiments, which the united states does not mind.
‒ in the electricity context of the volkswagen scandal, this motion for a resolution seeks to provide a purely environmental response to a strategic industrial problem.
this resolution tackles a strategically important industrial issue by treating it as an environmental problem.
under the guise of protecting the environment, it provides for the obligation to choose a product 'on the basis of the comprehensive and unbiased technical characteristics provided to it', even though the technical characteristics are anything but unbiased!
‒ this resolution condemns the emissions cheating by volkswagen.
i am voting for this text, although i regret that it does not call for the end of the negotiations currently under way on the transatlantic single market, which is based on the harmonization of these various control systems by means of 'mutual recognition' and which could increase the level of risk in terms of emissions from passenger cars.
another positive point is that the pollution thresholds for nitrogen oxide emissions, which were totally unrealistic, have been raised from 80 mg/km to 168 mg. but there are several elements in this text which run counter to the interests of the european automobile industry, which is already facing increased global competition.
co2 emissions are constantly denounced, even though their role in global warming (which is vastly overestimated) is far from scientifically proven.
the proposal thus strengthens the union's powers and exaggerates the environmental effects of diesel engines.
the resolution, tabled by the epp, s&d, alde and greens, follows the scandal involving the german company volkswagen, which was accused of rigging its engines to falsify pollution tests.
at a time when international competition and economic warfare are raging, particularly against the united states, which has cleverly used this scandal to weigh down european car production, this resolution finds nothing better than to constrain the car industry by strengthening eu legislation and the commission's grip under the guise of good environmental sentiments, which the united states does not mind.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on measures to reduce emissions from the automotive sector.
the text, which was drawn up in response to the scandal created by the revelation of fraud in pollution tests by volkswagen, is balanced and aims to restore motorists' confidence in the use of diesel engines.
as stated in an amendment by the ppe group which i voted for, i believe that diesel technology remains an important means of enabling manufacturers to meet the average co2 emissions targets for the fleet in circulation in the union in 2021. it is essential to support this less polluting engine system than the petrol-driven one, which allows many europeans to gain purchasing power by paying less for their fuel.
‒ the motion for a resolution tabled by the epp, s&d, alde and the greens follows the scandal of the german company volkswagen, which was accused of rigging its engines to falsify pollution tests.
at a time when international competition and economic warfare are raging, particularly against the united states, which has cleverly used this scandal to weigh down european car production, this resolution finds nothing better than to constrain the car industry by strengthening eu legislation and the commission's grip under the guise of good environmental sentiments, which the united states does not mind.
the text also calls on the commission to introduce real-world emissions tests to better monitor the environmental impact of new cars on the market.
on 27 october 2015, meps adopted a resolution calling on the commission to take all necessary measures to respond to the volkswagen scandal and the falsification of pollution tests.
it would also have been necessary to include a specific paragraph in favour of diesel emission policies, which is at the root of the air pollution problem causing serious public health problems throughout europe.
‒ after speaking to elzbieta bienkowska, european commissioner for the internal market, industry, entrepreneurship and smes, in a debate on emission measurement in the automotive sector, i voted in favour of a motion for a resolution to improve the efficiency and reliability of emissions controls.
cheating is unacceptable, especially since the health of citizens, the environmental model we want to build and consumer confidence in a major european industrial sector are at stake.
it considers a strategic industrial issue in the context of a global trade war from a narrow and highly exaggerated point of view of the environment.
we must urgently give ourselves the financial leeway to deal with the challenges of the moment: climate change, the energy transition, the advent of the digital society, industrial recovery, youth employment, the refugee crisis, geopolitical instability in the middle east and, of course, agriculture, for which i was the rapporteur on the budget.
before the refugees, there was terrorism, there was the investment plan - the so-called juncker plan - there was the exceptional programme on youth employment; in a few weeks, there will be climate and energy, next year, digital strategy, etc.
and you can see that this is a huge waste of time.
i therefore have no fear of the argument of financial waste; in my opinion it is demagogic.
the first element is the re-evaluation of the evaluation: scientific evaluation, evaluation in relation to health, evaluation in relation to environmental risks, socioeconomic evaluation.
the safety of citizens and the protection of the environment should guide all our decisions.
what i am asking you today is that in the face of this public health and environmental risk, the commission should have the courage to ban the use of nanoparticles.
however, the objectives of reducing pollution must not override our economic interests.
madam president, commissioner, despite what i hear, what we hear from the far right and the far right in this house, yes, there is urgency, seven million people die every year because of air pollution, 600 000 people in europe die every year because of air pollution.
limiting our polluting emissions, just as reducing our co2 emissions are the cornerstones of this new society we want to build.
changing our society, changing the way we organize our agriculture, the way we reuse our waste to organize a circular economy: that's how we'll get the low-carbon society we want.
we need ambitious standards to combat air pollution, the poor quality of which causes more than 48 000 premature deaths a year in france.
i would draw your attention to our amendment to exclude enteric methane from animal waste, since we do not have at present any effective technical or technological means of reducing these natural emissions.
we have to ask ourselves what kind of farming model we want: animals kept indoors to reduce their intake emissions or animals raised outdoors?
mr president, this is the question of the limit on annual methane emissions.
following the sentence 'member states must at least limit their annual anthropogenic emissions of methane', i propose to add the sentence 'except for the enteric methane emissions from ruminants', which would allow us, mr president, to avoid being ridiculous in the eyes of the whole of europe.
the budget also does not propose any sustainable solution to ensure the reduction of arrears of unpaid invoices in relation to the implementation of the programmes for the period 2014-2020. that is why i voted against this budget.
on transport and longterm investment, i welcome the additional funds allocated to the connecting europe facility to step up sustainable investment in energy, telecommunications and transport infrastructure.
the budget also does not propose any sustainable solution to ensure the reduction of arrears of unpaid invoices in relation to the implementation of the programmes for the period 2014-2020. that is why i voted against this budget.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
of course, this court deals with important cases, for example environmental legislation.
these derogations will expire at the end of 2015. these measures strike a healthy balance between protecting the environment and allowing member states to obtain derogations.
‒ this text should define technical measures to preserve fisheries resources in a 'difficult' mediterranean context (overfishing + pollution in particular), while respecting the interests of fishermen.
i voted for this text because the idea is, as is often the case, to strike a balance between protecting the marine environment and the interests of fishermen, and it is the right thing to do.
‒ i voted for this text, which is a step in the right direction, given that the idea is to strike a balance between protecting the marine environment and the interests of fishermen.
these derogations, which expire by 31 december 2015, are a compromise for the protection of the environment and the safety of our fishing vessels.
its main objectives are to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean, the black sea and the intermediate waters.
the transposition provides for technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm area.
the gfcm has adopted a series of measures to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, in particular as regards red coral, seabirds, sea turtles and sharks.
the problem was the necessary balance between the problems of overfishing, pollution and the economic interest of fishermen.
this means limiting pollution, taking care of overfishing and renewing marine resources and finally granting derogations to fishermen.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it strikes a balance between protecting the environment and the interests of fishermen.
the idea is, as is often the case, to strike a balance between the protection of the marine environment and the interests of fishermen.
the text, which was the result of negotiations between the european institutions, which want to protect the environment, and the member states, which want to defend the interests of their fishermen, sets out technical measures to preserve fisheries resources in the mediterranean.
i am voting against this text which conscientiously denies any ecological advancement.
the aim of this recommendation is to define technical provisions for the conservation of fishery resources in the context of overfishing and pollution in the mediterranean, while respecting the interests of fishermen.
i voted for this text because i believe it seeks to strike an acceptable balance between the protection of the marine environment and the interests of fishermen.
the aim is to transpose into union law the decisions adopted by the commission which are aimed at promoting the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean, the black sea and the intermediate waters.
i therefore supported the technical measures envisaged by this commission to ensure the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the area covered by this agreement.
‒ the aim of this recommendation is to define technical provisions for the conservation of fisheries resources in the context of overfishing and pollution in the mediterranean, while respecting the interests of fishermen.
i voted for this text because i believe it seeks to strike an acceptable balance between the protection of the marine environment and the interests of fishermen.
the cgpm was established in 1949. it is a regional fisheries management organisation whose main objectives are the promotion of fishing, the conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean, the black sea and the intermediate waters.
in 2011, 2012 and 2013, the gfcm adopted a series of measures to ensure the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans during fishing activities, a high level of protection of sharks and rays against fishing activities and the sustainable development of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
‒ the technical measures presented in this text are the result of a simple compromise between the european institutions and the member states, the idea being as often to strike a balance between the protection of the marine environment and the interests of fishermen.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
it is therefore necessary that such products, as defined in this way, may be placed on the market only in accordance with the precautionary principle, accompanied by a specific labelling, and after their safety in relation to health and the environment has been demonstrated.
foods or food ingredients not consumed in the european union before 1997. for example, goji berries, originally from latin america, were not consumed in europe 20 years ago, but are now widely available commercially and highly prized for their energy-giving properties.
it is therefore necessary that such products, as defined in this way, can only be placed on the market in compliance with the precautionary principle, with specific labelling and with proven safety with regard to health and the environment.
it is therefore necessary that such products, as defined in this way, can only be placed on the market in accordance with the precautionary principle, with specific labelling and with proven safety with regard to health and the environment.
the commission has also rejected the environmental amendment calling for a moratorium on the presence of nanoparticles in food until an adequate european procedure for health and environmental assessment has been developed.
i am opposed to this idea because these farms have very little potential to reduce emissions, in particular because there is no effective technical solution to prevent cows from emitting so-called enteric methane.
this would be tantamount to encouraging intensive farming models that are less favourable to the environment and to fragile territories.
i am glad that our assembly has taken account of the realities of agriculture without neglecting the issues of public health and the environment.
‒ with just a few weeks to go until the cop21 in paris, the european parliament is voicing its commitment to curbing the damage to the ozone layer.
i trust the farmers who have already implemented new practices that meet the requirements of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i therefore supported and voted for an amendment to exclude enteric methane emissions from this directive.
‒ the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants is part of the legislative package on air quality proposed by the commission.
it is very important to increase the quality of air as pollution is responsible for many deaths every year.
the main source of methane emissions is the agricultural sector, as ruminants are the main emitters.
since we do not currently have an effective technical or technological means of reducing the emissions of enteric methane (waste from livestock), i co-signed an amendment, the content of which was taken up by the plenary, to exclude these emissions from the directive, so as not to penalise the agricultural sector.
air pollution kills 400 000 european citizens every year, so the eu needs to set stricter emission ceilings and binding targets for 2025 for all the pollutants it targets.
the european ecological revolution we are calling for is synonymous with the preservation of a sustainable agricultural model which respects animal welfare.
the reduction of methane emissions is certainly an important public health issue, but we must be pragmatic.
‒ i voted in favour of this text, which sets new virtuous thresholds in the policy of reducing emissions of several air pollutants.
the environment, with the abandonment of permanent grasslands.
the greenhouse effect must be combated without sacrificing traditional agriculture, which also captures a number of gases from its soil (which are very useful carbon sinks, particularly in the fight against global warming).
‒ air pollution is responsible for 400 000 premature deaths a year in the european union!
on the eve of the cop21 in paris in december, parliament has just adopted an ambitious report to reduce emissions of air pollutants in the european union.
i welcome the adoption of this ambitious but also balanced and realistic draft directive, which takes account of the specific situation of the agricultural and livestock sector by excluding enteric methane emissions.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a key legislative instrument for air pollution control at european level.
i supported the report on reducing air pollutant emissions, adopted by the plenary on 28 october.
i voted in favour of this text because air pollution causes 400 000 premature deaths in the eu every year, and it is very costly for our planet and our societies.
this instrument is important in combating the worsening air pollution experienced by large agglomerations.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to strengthen air pollution control at european level by setting ceilings for the main pollutants.
‒ the national front delegation maintains its position against the inclusion of methane and the mention of ammonia in the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants, in order to limit the regulatory burden on agriculture and certain industries.
to achieve these objectives, the report stresses the need to reduce emissions from road transport.
some attention is also paid to pollution from agriculture.
this girling report on emissions of certain air pollutants concerns the directive which continues the work of the 2001 pen directive on emission ceilings for certain air pollutants including sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvocs) until 2020. the new directive proposes new thresholds until 2030 by adding methane (a polluting gas largely from agricultural and livestock activities) and fine particulate matter.
ambitious standards are needed to combat air pollution, which is believed to be responsible for many premature deaths.
i am therefore in favour of the objective of setting national ceilings for environmental protection and air quality, but i have opposed the inclusion of enteric methane (gas from fermentation in the ruminants' bellies) in the calculation of these ceilings.
‒ we need ambitious standards to combat air pollution.
‒ this girling report on emissions of certain air pollutants concerns the directive which continues the work of the 2001 pen directive on emission ceilings for certain air pollutants including sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvocs) until 2020. the new directive proposes new thresholds until 2030 by adding methane (a polluting gas largely from agricultural activities and livestock) and fine particulate matter.
‒ in order to combat climate change effectively and to encourage a gradual reduction in emissions of air pollutants, the commission has put in place the 'national emission ceilings' (nec) directive.
the aim of this instrument is to regulate emissions of pollutants into the air by setting emission ceilings for member states for the main pollutants.
i support this position and encourage a realistic text adapted to the environmental, social and economic needs of our states.
‒ air pollution from human activities, ranging from industry to agriculture, is estimated to kill 400 000 european citizens every year.
it is therefore essential to tackle the problems of polluting emissions through a global and european solution, since pollution knows no borders.
on wednesday, i voted in favour of the report on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants, which sets a ceiling for emissions by 2030. this includes emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and fine particulate matter.
‒ parliament has made a clear statement to strengthen the european commission's proposal for new rules for 2020 to 2030 on emissions of certain pollutants that are harmful to health.
a few weeks before cop 21, parliament has sent a strong signal to reduce emissions of harmful pollutants.
the commission proposal had the objective of reducing emissions of these pollutants from 2020 to 2030 and parliament added binding targets from 2025. air pollution is responsible for nearly 480 000 premature deaths on the european continent, the time for procrastination is now over.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution setting new, more ambitious national emission ceilings for the main air pollutants harmful to human health and the environment: nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, non-methane volatile organic compounds, ammonia, methane and particulate matter.
air pollution is responsible for about 400 000 premature deaths each year in the european union and causes between 300 and 900 billion euro in health-related costs per year.
the reductions set shall apply from 2020 and 2030, with intermediate emission levels for the year 2025. we have decided to keep methane and ammonia in the directive, two pollutants which are mainly from agriculture, while excluding the enteric methane emissions naturally produced by ruminants.
‒ i supported this report which sets new national ceilings for certain pollutants and will allow the level of air pollution in the european union to be monitored.
we must find solutions to the serious problem of air pollution, which causes more than 400 000 premature deaths in the european union every year, including more than 48 000 in france!
i supported this report which sets new national ceilings for certain pollutants and will allow air pollution levels to be monitored in the european union.
we must find solutions to the serious problem of air pollution, which causes more than 400 000 premature deaths in the european union every year, including more than 48 000 in france!
90% of europe's city dwellers are exposed to pollution levels that pose a health risk.
it was therefore necessary for us to legislate to reduce these risks and to limit polluting emissions.
the report presented by mrs girling is ambitious, aiming to limit emissions of the main pollutants, particularly in the transport, industry, energy, residential heating, services and agriculture sectors.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the report also identifies several development priorities, namely blue growth, strengthening the region's interconnection, environmental quality, and sustainable and competitive tourism.
the report appropriately identifies several development priorities for the four pillars of the strategy, namely blue growth, interconnections, environment and tourism.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports the commission's communication on the new eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian sea, with the priorities of blue growth, the environment and sustainable and competitive tourism in this area.
the report describes the characteristics of the macro-region, the challenges and opportunities it faces, and calls for specific actions on blue growth, connecting regions, environmental quality, sustainable and competitive tourism.
the text recalls that the existing macro-regional strategy for the eight countries bordering the baltic sea has produced good results and enabled denmark, germany, estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, finland and sweden to respond to several common challenges in the area (creating a sustainable environment, enhancing prosperity, improving accessibility and attractiveness and ensuring security).
this report identifies blue growth, regional interconnection, environmental quality and sustainable tourism as development priorities for the adriatic and ionian region.
it is important to promote regional cooperation within the union and to foster synergies, in particular in the fields of blue growth, transport, environment and tourism.
in parallel, the report identifies several development priorities for the four pillars of the strategy: blue growth, regional interconnection, environmental quality and sustainable and competitive tourism.
the europe 2020 strategy highlights the union's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
as an instrument of investment and solidarity, the union's cohesion policy contributes to the implementation of the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
cohesion policy is the european union's main investment instrument and it is closely linked to the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
on the contrary, the new cohesion policy is in line with the objectives of europe 2020. it thus abandons the objectives of reducing disparities between regions in favour of 'smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'.
i welcome the references to the social and environmental progress made possible by this strategy but condemn the lack of solidarity and cohesive objectives in this report, which is why i abstain.
it is important to recall that cohesion policy is the main instrument of investment of the union and reflects european solidarity; it also meets the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
on the one hand, it remains firm on the question of the stability of the macroeconomic environment, which can only increase the effectiveness of cohesion policy.
it is important to ensure the stability of the macroeconomic environment, which can only increase the effectiveness of cohesion policy.
we have always stressed the importance of the stability of the macroeconomic environment as this stability increases the effectiveness of cohesion policy, but it should also be noted that the provisions linking the effectiveness of the esi funds to good economic governance should only be applied as a last resort, following all the steps in article 23.
in writing.
we are one month away from the summit of the last chance to save the climate, cop 21. we must reconcile the economy and the climate, the economy and the environment, and put the emphasis on renewable energy and the social and solidarity economy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the current economic situation in the european union is characterised by stagnating gdp (stable in the euro area and marked by a 0.2% increase in the eu-28 in the second quarter of 2014), remarkably low inflation (0.3% in august 2014) and a record unemployment rate of 11.5% in the euro area and 10.2% in the eu-28 in july 2014. the report highlights a series of priorities focusing on modernising economies, structural labour market reforms, the banking union, immigration policy, energy policy and increasing sources of finance for smes.
the report is a complete waste of time and remains vague except for the promotion of ultra-liberal reforms or the proposal for own fiscal resources for the eu.
the report is a complete waste of time and remains vague except for the promotion of ultra-liberal reforms or the proposal for own fiscal resources for the eu.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ in the context of the post-crisis economic environment, the unemployment rate has risen sharply in the union and the long-term unemployed now represent 12.1 million people, or 5% of the union's active population.
‒ the future european regulation will aim to address justified safety concerns but will also try to give this emerging sector the means to develop in a respectful environment for citizens and airspace.
the commission should therefore increase its staff responsible for tourism policy, report on the first measures taken in 2010 in this area, take account of future challenges (protection of the climate and the environment, digitalisation of the sector, accessibility, etc.)
it also advocates the development of sustainable and responsible tourism, as well as the sharing economy and digitalisation.
while the text is a diatribe on trends such as "responsible tourism" or even "ecological and sustainable tourism", it only anecdotally addresses the problem of insecurity in major tourist destinations.
the commission is therefore asked to start by increasing its staff responsible for tourism policy, to report on the first measures taken in this area in 2010, to take account of future challenges (protection of the climate and the environment, digitalisation of the sector, accessibility, etc.)
the report aims to focus on a brand strategy for european tourism against global competition, as well as on supporting digital offerings and preserving biodiversity.
the commission should therefore increase its staff responsible for tourism policy, report on the first measures taken in 2010 in this area, take account of future challenges (protection of the climate and the environment, digitalisation of the sector, accessibility, etc.)
finally, the tourism industry must take account of increasingly stringent sustainability requirements.
the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
the idea is also to promote sustainable, responsible and environmentally friendly tourism.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, aviation is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases of all modes of transport.
for each passenger and each kilometre travelled, this mode of transport is three times more harmful to the climate than the car.
imagine that a round trip from london to new york generates about as many greenhouse gases as one person needs to heat themselves for a year.
the result, since 1990, is that as the price of the airline ticket has gone down, emissions from this sector have gone up by 110%, and they could even triple by 2050 and take us well beyond the 2°c of global warming.
so you see, colleagues, we are faced with three challenges when we talk about aviation: the climate challenge, the social challenge and the international challenge.
by recommending that the commission accelerate the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, you will inevitably increase the already heavy burden on our airlines and thus penalise our customers, since the price of the air ticket will inevitably be increased again by one or more taxes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the resolution also ignores any environmental prospects and, on the eve of cop 21, stresses that 'the aviation sector is recognised as a growing sector' and welcomes the forecasts of a doubling of traffic by 2030. i am astonished at the irony of this document and i am voting against this text which threatens airline employees, passenger safety and the environment.
to accompany this progress, new rules must be defined to guarantee safety, security and environmental conditions.
but it faces many challenges: an increasingly competitive environment, a constantly increasing number of passengers, climate change, fluctuating oil prices, and more.
so, in agriculture, the proliferation of intensive livestock farming in france and europe, combined with the threat of ttip, makes me fear for animal welfare and the environment, but also for human health.
consumers want both greenhouse gas reduction and open-air farming.
mr president, commissioner, you have given us details of the energy union, the great project that jean-claude juncker wants to see completed, which must ensure the energy security of the european union and at the same time the competitiveness of our companies.
the first concerns the achievement of the 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. we know that we will have great difficulty in achieving this, because many member states are not making the necessary investments in this area.
this must be emphasized, especially in the case of heating and cooling, which are the main sources of energy consumption in the european union, because existing buildings, that is to say 98% of buildings, cannot be left out of any energy improvement.
i would therefore like to know, commissioner, what you intend to do to really encourage member states to invest in energy efficiency.
renewable energies make this system a bit complex and therefore it is important and urgent to respond to the complexity of energy management with a real european strategy focusing on so-called smart grid management.
in the context of the forthcoming reform of the carbon market - my colleague kariņš has spoken about this - it is important to take account of the interests of our industry and not to sacrifice our industrial base to a certain ideology; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are not used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry.
she was wrong about the concept of the energy market.
you have also cut off the concepts of production and distribution which are essential to the energy market, which is a natural oligopoly.
you have misunderstood the notion of priority between environmental, competitive and security priorities.
i am sure you want to make an energy policy without france, without germany, without italy, without britain.
it is now failing again in the field of energy security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy europe is in crisis.
wholesale prices are generally too low to provide investment opportunities for energy companies, but this trend does not benefit the final consumer, whether residential or industrial.
i do not believe that the invisible hand of the market can multiply interconnections, replace our fossil fuel power stations with renewable energy, insulate our buildings or accelerate research and development.
the market alone will not guarantee us a leading position in the industrial part of the energy transition.
the national energy plans would be a step forward in coordination but let us not repeat the mistakes made with the european semester and the national reform programmes which are often considered too bureaucratic and not democratic enough.
i therefore sincerely hope that this complex watchmaking will be up to date with the new challenges we are facing, so that europe can finally break free from its external energy dependence and continue to play a leading role in the fight against climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy union offers us a great opportunity to build a common market which serves our common interests while taking into account national realities.
the price of energy represents in some sectors a quarter or even a third of the cost of production.
yet europe produces less than half of its energy and has few reserves.
ensuring supplies, improving energy efficiency and promoting low-carbon alternatives are therefore our priorities.
however, we must make sure that europe's energy policy, however ambitious, continues to create jobs and strengthen our competitiveness.
thanks to investments in new technologies, france is one of the countries with the lowest per capita greenhouse gas emissions.
we therefore need to mobilise more of the horizon 2020 financial instrument to achieve our energy objectives.
‒ police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters are, a priori, relevant ideas, particularly in the climate of insecurity that has characterised europe in recent years.
this new cooperation is in line with the policy of the european union, which is very active in all regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo) in order to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
as the union is very active in regional organisations on the issue of sound and sustainable management of marine resources and in the fight against illegal fishing, i support this accession which should strengthen the union's influence within the ccsbt by giving it a voting right.
the text before us is intended to allow the union to join this committee in order to strengthen its commitment to the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources worldwide.
it is time that the european parliament stopped giving all the power to the banking and insurance lobbies and allowed the same competent people to do this job in a sustainable way.
‒ this proposal fully incorporates the provisions of the united nations convention on the rights of the child: education, health, housing, protection, leisure, free time, nutrition and care in the family environment.
however, the rapporteur zuber forgets that the well-being of the child depends on the family environment and that a viable solution to the problem of child poverty cannot be found without combating the professional and social precariousness of parents.
‒ the united nations convention on the rights of the child provides that all children are guaranteed the right to education, health services, housing, protection, recreation and leisure, as well as a balanced diet and care in a family environment.
‒ parliament's motion for a resolution fully incorporates the rights already guaranteed by the united nations convention on the rights of the child, namely education, health, housing, protection, leisure, free time, nutrition and care in the family environment.
this proposal focuses on the child as an autonomous atom, to the detriment of the family, which is its first developmental environment, the second being society as a whole.
‒ parliament's motion for a resolution fully incorporates the rights already guaranteed by the united nations convention on the rights of the child, namely education, health, housing, protection, leisure, free time, nutrition and care in the family environment.
this proposal focuses on the child as if he were independent, autonomous, outside any family unit, which is his first reference point, his immediate environment.
it focuses on the child, while it is also necessary to take an interest in the environment in which he lives (deterioration of the situation of parents, or even grandparents, since intergenerational solidarity plays a major role, which argues for the cessation of cuts in retirement pensions).
according to the united nations convention on the rights of the child, all children should be guaranteed the right to education, health care, housing, protection, recreation and leisure, as well as a balanced diet and care in a family environment.
it focuses on the child, while it is also necessary to take an interest in the environment in which he lives (deterioration of the situation of parents, or even grandparents, since intergenerational solidarity plays a major role, which argues for the cessation of cuts in retirement pensions).
1. the all rights are covered in this proposal, but the focus on the child sometimes leaves out the environment and the family, which should receive more attention.
finally, the text contains a provision which alone sums up the nonsense of this report: the introduction of the principle of climate refugees into international law.
‒ in the face of armed conflict, regional instability and global environmental and health problems, there is a need to improve the internal functioning of the united nations.
finally, the text contains a provision which sums up the nonsense of the text: the introduction of the principle of climate refugees into international law.
moreover, at a time when climate change is increasing population displacement (rising sea levels, droughts, etc.
), the text opens the door to the drafting of an international definition of 'climate refugees'.
it also introduces the principle of 'climate refugee' into international law.
i support the measures in this text which call for the union to strengthen its role in this international arena, in particular to promote economic growth, reduce poverty and protect the environment.
it also introduces the principle of 'climate refugee' into international law.
the report stresses the need to strengthen the role of the european union in the united nations general assembly, and more particularly in the economic and social council, including environmental issues.
the european union and the united nations face common challenges: the pursuit of peace and security, the prevention of conflict, the fight against terrorism, the promotion of human rights, action for sustainable development, the defence of an international system based on multilateralism.
as for the companies themselves, having already admitted for some time that they have a social responsibility, that they have an environmental responsibility, they must begin to understand that they also have a civic responsibility, which is to contribute to the proper financing of public services in the countries where they work, in proportion to their activity.
it was mentioned that climate change is upon us.
the projections of the ipcc tell us that by 2025 there may be 100 million climate refugees.
of course, mrs g hyperlink "https://www.google.com/search?rls=com.microsoft:en-gb:ie-address&biw=1920&bih=934&q=georgieva+kristalina&spell=1&sa=x&ved=0ahukewiiqory56njahxcvq8khanfchmqvwuigsga" eorgieva kristalina, vice president, was a key person, who put a lot of her energy and talent into it.
the report deals with the sustainable development of the production of base metals, and i wanted to give it that title to cut short all the fantasies of others and of those who told us that we had to choose between industry and respect for the environment.
i am trying to show in this report that both are possible: to maintain a strong industry in europe, the production of base metals, while respecting the environment, of course.
europe has been suffering from a lack of investment since the 2008 crisis, which has an impact on competitiveness and also on the environment.
that is what i would like europe, the european parliament, to be able to defend at the dawn of cop21 by means of urgent decisions, although europe is the continent that continues to defend both the environment and industry.
this equity measure is the carbon adjustment at the frontiers, because there is no question of charging the polluting duty only to european industrialists and turning a blind eye to all imports from elsewhere.
this is the opportunity because here too the industrialists tell us that they need to have visibility, especially in terms of energy contracts which can be given to them to sign long-term contracts.
your carbon shielding won't work and won't be effective.
we must protect ourselves against dumping, we must protect ourselves because there is a problem of safety, independence, the environment and jobs.
there is no shame in protecting ourselves, the problem is the commission, which, by a bad view of the market, is creating energy insecurity and also insecurity in employment and industry.
i was also surprised to hear some colleagues, including mr fox - it is a pity he is already gone - say that the carbon adjustment at the border was not a good answer.
let me be very clear: if we do not accept the carbon adjustment at the borders, we will indeed take protectionist measures, but we will protect others.
because what is border carbon adjustment?
can you imagine, a few weeks before cop21, that we europeans are going to send the following message: pollution will only be paid for by european production?
polluters outside the european union will also be exempt from paying for their pollution.
i thank president weber for expressing his solidarity with the french republic, but i am surprised at his stigmatizing remarks and the climate of conflict he maintains, while we are all mobilized to bring about the pnr.
in fact, despite the current climate, this text still shows an angelism towards radical islamism by advocating the establishment of socio-educational processes.
‒ the current european regulatory framework for the improvement and prevention of risks in the working environment consists of 25 directives derived from a framework directive adopted in 1989. the proliferation of legal texts shows the futility and the profound stupidity of the european project as it is conceived today.
‒ since 1989, the principle of establishing standards to improve the prevention of risks in the working environment has been reflected in a european legislative framework comprising some 25 directives.
‒ 25 european directives are already aimed at preventing risks linked to the working environment.
‒ one of the european union's priorities is to ensure a safe and healthy environment for workers working in the european union.
every worker must have access to a safe and healthy working environment.
keeping workers healthy has direct and measurable effects on productivity and also contributes to a more sustainable social security system.
it is our role as meps to ensure a healthy and safe working environment for the 217 million workers in the union.
‒ this report on the further introduction of risk prevention standards for the working environment is another contribution to the european regulatory inflation.
‒ at present, the european regulatory framework for the improvement and prevention of risks related to the working environment is divided into 25 directives, under the aegis of a framework directive dating from 1989. this particularist approach is limited in the transposition phase into the national law of the member states, and even more so in the application phase.
but the report is satisfied with empty words calling for "a culture of mutual trust and learning encouraging employees to participate in the development of a healthy and safe working environment" when the main concern is to ensure "the application of legislation on health and safety at work in the member states".
the aim of this framework is to improve the prevention of risks related to the working environment.
the aim of this framework is to improve the prevention of risks linked to the working environment.
today, two-thirds of the african population have no access to energy, no access to light.
access to energy means access to water, to clean drinking water, to health, to education, to employment, to security.
yet africa has real potential for renewable energy development.
the g20 has recognised the urgency of limiting global warming to two degrees by 2100 compared to the pre-industrial era, but will cop 21 solve the funding issue?
that's 100 billion dollars a year that we need by 2020. help third countries to move to a low-carbon economy.
but no development is possible in a modern world without energy.
the amendments i have supported denounce these negotiations in terms dictated by the nordic countries and call instead for a plurilateral trading system based on social and environmental objectives.
i am afraid that these reforms, which are based on assumptions such as 'the liberalisation of trade is an important instrument for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development', will not bring any good.
the european parliament welcomes sectoral free trade approaches such as the agreement on environmental goods, information technologies and tisa (deployment of public services).
parliament welcomed the sectoral free trade approaches such as the agreement on environmental goods, information technologies, tisa (decommissioning of public services)... it calls for wto agreements to be legally binding.
this asymmetrical agreement aims to make it easier for ecuador to develop, but above all it asks the european commission to ensure that human, labour and environmental rights are well respected in ecuador.
unfortunately, this report still interferes with the country's politics by calling for respect for human rights, labour or the environment, but parliament recognizes a halving of poverty in 8 years in ecuador.
parliament therefore encouraged the agreement to enter into force as soon as possible and recommended that the ecuadorian government take measures, particularly on labour law and the environment.
this agreement, which is totally asymmetrical, makes it easier for ecuador to develop, but it also authorizes the commission to ensure that human, labour and environmental rights are respected.
moreover, in a completely neo-colonial attitude, the report welcomes "the important efforts made by ecuador in the field of the environment" even though this country is more committed to the defense of the environment than all the states of the european union.
this report is a request to the commission to ensure that human rights, labour rights and environmental concerns are properly respected in ecuador.
this report is a call to the european commission to ensure that human, labour and environmental rights are well respected in ecuador.
the rapporteur, my colleague helmut scholz of die linke, stressed the need to respect social and environmental rights.
we must also combat extensive farming, which puts us at risk for health and the environment, but also for animal welfare.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on a new animal welfare strategy 2016-2020. i am not going to go back on the attempts of environmental groups, who have become the mouthpieces of the anti-liver-fat movement, to make a splash before the holidays by denying the efforts of the liver-fat industry.
europe must legislate on this issue which affects our health, our food and our environment.
the report supports the pursuit of this objective and calls, among other things, for the "development of public services accessible to all", the strengthening of development aid and the establishment of sustainable funds at international level to provide education in emergency situations.
madam president, i wrote in my report on cop 21, this cop 21, this paris summit, is not only about fighting climate change, but also about changing the economic paradigm.
and then, it's an environmental protection; co2 emissions would decrease by 48% in 2030 and by 83% in 2050 compared to 2012 levels.
producing and consuming without concern for the future availability of our resources or the accumulation of waste is part of another time.
coupled with a re-industrialisation strategy, the circular economy can be a model to make europe sustainable.
it also offers opportunities for growth and green jobs, and it helps us to cope with the volatility of commodity and energy prices.
i particularly welcome the announcements in favour of water policy, which is already a major environmental, economic and geopolitical issue on a global scale.
the principle of waste water reuse is a key concept to be promoted in europe in order to meet the dual challenge of providing sufficient quantity and quality of water.
another reason to review the role of frontex is that, because the situation is dramatic and the climate is nauseating, it is essential that fundamental rights are actually respected.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by karima delli, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on sustainable urban mobility (2014/2242 ((ini)) (a8-0319/2015).
most often, it is suffered, because of traffic jams, because of the loss of time, because of air pollution.
cities were built for cars: let's give cities back to the people, because there's a climate emergency.
we're in the middle of cop 21. urban transport alone accounts for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions.
it is up to us to reverse the trend if we want the european union to meet its 2030 emissions targets.
should we, when we have pollution peaks, lock up pregnant women, children, the elderly to keep their lungs intact?
pollution is the disease of the 21st century, as the un recognizes.
the energy consumption required for our transportation makes us too dependent on oil dictatorships, now in the spotlight.
if we want to re-think how we move, we need to consider the social, environmental, economic and democratic impacts of transport.
in the midst of cop 21, let us put energy efficiency at the heart of our urban mobility policies.
madam president, urban mobility is one of the major challenges of the 21st century because it is at the crossroads of the three pillars of sustainable development: ecology, economy and social.
working towards sustainable urban mobility means making a concrete contribution to the fight against air pollution and global warming.
with transport accounting for 25% of co2 emissions, with increasing urbanisation and hundreds of thousands of people dying every year from air pollution, we have a political responsibility to make sustainable mobility a key issue in european policies.
working for sustainable urban mobility also means fighting social exclusion and ensuring territorial cohesion.
in particular, we are planning to: pursue a more holistic approach to smart, sustainable and resilient cities; further support cities, industry and r&i by promoting a marketplace for trading solutions; offer cities and innovative projects promoters support for real—life testing under horizon 2020; help cities to use different eu funding opportunities, and to combine public and private investment, for instance from the european fund for strategic investment; and run platforms – as one of you also mentioned – for exchange of practices, since at eu level this can have a much bigger impact than many think.
the 2011 white paper already talked about nearly—zero—emissions city logistics by 2030, so green urban logistics are in our programme and in our minds.
encourage all member states and cities to develop sustainable urban mobility plans.
these are the same people who are the victims of diesel emissions fraud.
mr president, i am an old member of parliament whose prostate grows as his energy decreases.
we just have to keep in mind - it has been said by others, but i want to stress this point - that the waste of women's talent, the waste of women's skills, the waste of the fantastic efforts of training, of education that are being deployed through our education systems, our training systems for women, for young girls... (the president withdraws the speaker)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, since may 2010, the human rights situation in hungary has been deteriorating.
what is the role of the european parliament if our resolution of last june seems to be a waste of time?
once again, economic interests take precedence over the environment, nature and the human race as a whole.
we must also find a way of putting pressure on the european multinationals in the drc to respect the principles of human rights and the environment in the region.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ this report proposes to tackle pollution and noise in cities.
all this is wind and a lot of waste.
the delli report on sustainable urban mobility, for example, lays the foundations for an urban policy driven by the european commission, rather than a management by municipalities more in tune with the needs of their cities and their inhabitants.
‒ this report proposes to tackle air and noise pollution in city centres.
unlike the rapporteur, we do not believe that the european institutions are best placed to reduce the level of pollution in the agglomerations.
supranational ecological governance would be bureaucratic and therefore counterproductive.
the main idea is to reserve part of the european funds such as the erdf, the cohesion fund, or horizon 2020 and its european fund for strategic investments (efsi), for sustainable urban mobility projects.
i supported this own-initiative report on sustainable urban mobility as part of the fight against global warming.
a more sustainable and intelligent management of the mobility of people and goods in europe is essential to improving the quality of life of european citizens.
‒ in a context of urban densification on the one hand and the need to connect all territories to each other on the other, i voted in favour of this resolution, which promotes smooth urban mobility based on the development of reliable, smart, greenhouse gas-saving and easily accessible public transport.
as a former regional president, i have long advocated an integrated approach to mobility that limits the use of private transport solutions and reduces air pollution, noise, accidents, congestion, etc.
‒ the report aimed to promote the reduction of noise, pollution and congestion in cities.
apart from the utterly utopian and vague nature of these proposals, the report seeks above all to promote supranational ecological governance.
‒ i voted against this report because it is in favour of supranational ecological governance.
‒ this text is well-intentioned (combating urban pollution).
the unspoken aim of such a text is to pave the way for supranational ecological governance.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague karima delli on sustainable urban mobility.
i believe that a balance must be struck between the social, environmental and economic impacts of transport and between meeting the needs of present and future generations.
the european union is not in the best position to combat pollution and noise in the city centres, much to the displeasure of brussels.
‒ nearly 82% of eu citizens will live in urban areas by 2050. urban transport accounts for 25% of all co2 emissions and is the only sector in which greenhouse gas emissions have been steadily increasing since 1990. the report aims to reverse this trend.
‒ the objectives of combating pollution, noise in city centres and reducing congestion are commendable, but the means proposed in this report (action agendas, the urban mobility observatory, the concept of a 'shared city', green growth strategies) appear inadequate.
this report presents ways to combat pollution and noise in city centres, as well as solutions to reduce traffic congestion.
however, we believe that the european institutions do not have the competence to respond to these problems, firstly because of the principle of subsidiarity, and above all because the obvious objective of this text is supranational ecological governance.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on sustainable urban mobility.
the text recommends that the european union contribute, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, to the development of an integrated and long-term approach to urban mobility aimed at reducing pollution, congestion and accidents in urban traffic.
i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a european roadmap for the energy transition in urban public transport.
given that 80% of europeans will be urban in 2050, it is necessary to develop solutions other than the 'all-roader', ensuring that these solutions are sustainable and environmentally friendly.
‒ on the occasion of the cop 21, which is bringing together world leaders in a (very) grand fashion these days, i reiterate the urgent need to reduce the impact of transport on emissions of both greenhouse gases and fine particulate matter.
i voted in favour of the report on sustainable urban mobility, which promotes a wide range of solutions combining competitiveness and sobriety to achieve these objectives.
in general, i support any initiative to promote and develop the emergence of the sharing economy in urban mobility, such as car-sharing and carpooling, which have a high potential for reducing pollution and urban traffic nuisance.
in this context, action is needed to promote sustainable urban mobility, especially as it can bring environmental, health, energy, safety, urban planning, infrastructure, quality of life and innovation benefits.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on sustainable urban mobility.
this is to meet the ever-increasing demand for mobility while assessing the environmental, social and economic impacts.
the report suggests that part of the erdf, the cohesion fund, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the horizon 2020 programmes should be earmarked for financing sustainable urban mobility projects.
the union must continue its commitment to sustainable urban mobility in order to achieve its objectives, in particular those related to the circular economy as a driver of job creation.
‒ the aim of this text is to pave the way for supranational ecological governance.
karima delli made no secret of this when she explained in an interview: "the first step is that before the end of 2016, each member state must deliver what is called a national plan for sustainable urban mobility".
i think that you can only really achieve energy resilience if you build on the links that are the states.
without the states, no energy policy is possible.
in my opinion, mr gróbarczyk is wrong to abandon sustainable development because we currently have - as my colleague mr turmes has pointed out - energy prices which allow new energy sources to be competitive.
the commission is a liberal ideologue and therefore unable to ensure energy security, since its price approach does not support the market in the long term.
mr president, our european energy market is gradually being set up.
commissioner, i listened to you very carefully earlier and i understood that we were going to have a lot of work to do in 2016 on renewable energy or energy efficiency.
i shall focus on the energy market.
the second solution is to ensure that investors benefit from a favourable framework for sustainable investment and more long-term contracts in the electricity market in order to secure and encourage investments, especially in renewable energy, which have very high fixed costs.
this will create a dynamic energy trading space for the benefit of energy producers, network operators and consumers alike.
written declarations (rule 162)
the agenda calls for the debate on the motion for a resolution by mr bart staes, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: authorisation of genetically modified maize nk603xt25 (2015/3019(rsp)) (b8-1365/2015)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on the other hand, the second source of legislation, namely us, the european parliament, has today very clearly rejected, in the committee on the environment, the validation of this product which is extremely dangerous, particularly because of its resistance to chemicals, which are themselves very dangerous.
it is now essential to put all the cards on the table to ensure the viability and sustainability of the euro at the service of our citizens and thus first of all investment and employment.
we need further work on the pension system to make it sustainable, also in greece.
pensions systems need to be sustainable if we want to insure our pensioners, also in the future.
i would like to remind you that in 2012, before i was elected by that abominable mrs le pen, did we not propose a stimulus programme based on the central bank with the large public banks, using quantitative easing to invest in the real economy, in transport and energy infrastructure, in smes, in export development.
these two bodies, like the european semester, will have to make economic competitiveness and growth a priority in order to create sustainable jobs and strengthen our economic and monetary area, that is to say, to strike the right economic and political balance between reducing member states' deficits and implementing recovery policies.
the egf shall have a maximum annual budget of eur 150 million for the period 2014-2020. i have supported this report because i believe that one of the purposes of the european union budget is to help the declining sectors to move towards a more sustainable economic model.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this deliberation because it aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, so as to bring economic, environmental and social benefits.
‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries (cmpea), to which the european union is a contracting party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, so as to bring economic, environmental and social benefits.
the cpane recommendations are transposed into union law and the cpane the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the aim of the neafc is to ensure optimum conservation and use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area to ensure the long-term economic and social benefits of fishing and the protection of the environment.
the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a contracting party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, so as to bring economic, environmental and social benefits.
the cpane recommendations are transposed into union law and the cpane the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries (cmpea), to which the european union is a contracting party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, so as to bring economic, environmental and social benefits.
‒ there are many challenges to the protection of marine biodiversity and sustainable development in fisheries.
the eradication of illegal fishing activities can enhance fishing activities that respect the rights of fishermen and smallholders, while protecting the environment and marine fauna.
the commission's text, like parliament's, proposes to extend these exceptional measures of asymmetrical liberalisation of trade between the union and bosnia until 31 december 2020, at a time when bosnia is in a state of near-permanent political crisis, due in particular to a deleterious climate in which both the mafia and the islamists are thriving.
as regards its ecological aspect, ambitions have been raised.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
the main disagreement is over shale gas and nuclear energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to reduce the eu's dependence on energy imports by integrating their energy markets, improving security of supply and making the best use of existing and renewable sources.
i strongly opposed this text, which contains one of the juncker commission's flagship projects, namely a european energy union, that is to say, the abolition of the sovereign competence of the member states to make strategic choices for their nation on their energy package, thereby undermining their levers of influence on the geopolitical scene.
the report, drawn up by a rather sovereignist ecr member, certainly attempts to moderate the commission's ambitions, in particular by not adopting its idea of transforming the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators into an integrated agency with powers of injunction and sanction.
finally, it is a text which clearly announces the plan to submit this energy union to american interests since it calls for this area to be integrated into the tipc, already the main threat to the interests and well-being of the peoples of europe.
‒ given the anti-russian nature of this document (it calls russia an "unreliable partner", supports gas and oil pipeline projects bypassing russia and proposes to ban gazprom from the distribution market in europe) and its very pro-american positioning (it calls for energy to be included in the ptci negotiations), i consider this text to be the complete opposite of my geopolitical orientations.
it also promotes the creation of a liberalised energy market by advocating the abolition of regulated tariffs, monopolies and long-term contracts in favour of highly speculative market prices, which i consider to be harmful.
‒ this report deals with the implementation of the energy union, which is the aim of the european commission, chaired by jean-claude juncker.
first, it recalls that the choice of the energy package is a matter for the member states and not for the commission.
however, we cannot support proposals to include energy in the transatlantic free trade agreement.
the rapporteur is also clearly in favour of the exploitation of shale gas and oil, which is harmful to the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on a european energy union.
global challenges such as fluctuating energy prices exacerbated by our dependence on certain countries and global warming will not be adequately addressed by national policies in isolation.
we need an efficient and interconnected european energy sector.
a european energy union will enable a more competitive energy sector to emerge, offering european citizens a service tailored to their needs.
cooperation in this field will help us to reduce our dependence on third countries for energy.
we will also achieve this by investing in research into new energy sources.
‒ i supported this report, whose content i believe reflects a good balance between the need to create a single energy market based on cleaner and cheaper energy and the need to let member states control and guide their nuclear policies.
in view of the current energy fragmentation of the union, which is hampering its competitiveness and independence, i would like to stress two points in this report: the 10% target for european electricity interconnection and the categorical rejection of the nord stream 2 gas pipeline project, which, by creating a certain energy dependence on russia, would be in conflict with the european strategy for diversifying sources of supply.
finally, the report proposes a reasonable compromise on shale gas, with the aim of establishing sufficient guarantees in terms of compliance with environmental standards in the production of this type of hydrocarbons.
while diversification of sources of supply is a horizon to be achieved, strong environmental and public health safeguards should be maintained.
‒ this own-initiative report sets out the european parliament's recommendations for building an efficient energy union, capable of providing citizens and businesses with sufficient energy at a competitive price.
this report responds to the commission's communication on the energy union of february last.
it stresses the importance of diversifying energy sources and supply routes.
while recalling the competence of the member states in the field of energy packaging, parliament stressed the need to complete the internal energy market and the measures needed to achieve this.
the introduction of a voluntary system of energy group purchases is one of the main proposals to reduce the energy bill of europeans.
i voted in favour of this report because it reflects the european parliament's ambition in the field of energy and because it provides practical solutions to strengthen european competitiveness.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european energy union because we need to speed up its construction.
at the same time, more and more renewable energy sources are coming onto the grids, making the organisation more complex.
it is therefore urgent to respond to the complexity of energy management with a real european strategy, giving priority to the so-called 'smart' management of the networks.
the juncker plan on energy has financed many projects and this must continue, particularly for heating and cooling, which are the main energy consumption in the european union.
‒ i agree with a number of the proposals in this report, including those emphasising the importance of the role of our assembly on all the legislative proposals in the energy union package, the involvement of industries in the development of the energy production chain of tomorrow, the strengthening of euro-mediterranean cooperation on gas, electricity and european energy networks.
i would also like to reiterate my attachment to research and innovation, which are central to ensuring security of supply and combating the greenhouse effect.
as regards fracking technologies, i would remind you that they are not, as carbon-based energy, a sector of the future.
i am in favour of not calling nuclear energy into question in a blatant way in order to move towards a sustainable energy package which does not call into question the important balances in terms of safety.
‒ i voted against this resolution because it excludes russia as a strategic energy supplier to european countries.
on the one hand, and i fully support him, he says that energy policy is a highly strategic area on which the independence and sovereignty of the states depend and which is therefore their responsibility.
on the other hand, it proposes, in order to ensure the energy security of these same states, supply policies at european level, that is to say the negation of these very notions of sovereignty and independence.
let us add to this an anti-russian charge, a pro-american tropism, in particular in favour of including the sector in the negotiations of the transatlantic treaty, unwavering support for the internal energy market - that is to say, its total liberalisation and its delivery to private operators, including non-european ones - the multiplication of highly inventive means of breaking what is left of public service in this field - personal production, deregulation of tariffs ... and it will be understood that once again i voted against a report on energy in this house.
in the field of security, whether internal, external or energy, europe is not the solution: it is one of the causes of the problem.
the construction of an energy union must be accelerated.
the achievement of the 20% energy efficiency improvement target by 2020 unfortunately seems difficult to achieve because too many member states do not take this huge undertaking seriously enough and still block the necessary investments in this area.
this must continue, particularly in the case of heating and cooling, which are the main energy consumption in the european union.
at the same time, more and more renewable energy sources are coming onto the grids, making the organisation more complex.
it is therefore urgent to respond to the complexity of energy management with a real european strategy, giving priority to the so-called 'smart' management of the networks.
the forthcoming carbon market reform will be essential for the future direction of investment and for consolidating our industrial base.
as regards its ecological aspect, ambitions have been raised.
the main disagreement is over shale gas and nuclear energy.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague marek gróbarczyk on a european energy union.
europe must reduce its energy dependence and promote the use of renewable energy sources to ensure a sustainable and competitive future.
‒ i voted in favour of an own-initiative report on the energy union, one of the ten priorities set by jean-claude juncker at the beginning of his mandate.
the report supports the development of renewable energy sources, without banning nuclear energy for those member states that wish to do so.
the aim will be to move towards an integrated internal energy market at the forefront of research and innovation, particularly in energy efficiency, whereas europe is already a world leader in renewable energy, with 40% of patents and 1.2 million jobs in this sector.
as we have been reminding the european commission, it is equally important to have better and more demanding anti-dumping measures to protect our european energy industries.
finally, i believe that the ets must be thoroughly reformed and designed in a more realistic way, so that we can effectively combat the ever-increasing leakage of carbon to third countries.
‒ i voted against the report on the european energy union.
firstly, the report is in favour of polluting companies: it proposes in particular the exploitation of shale gas and oil, under the heading of 'non-conventional energy sources'.
he called for energy to be included in the cipr.
the text also supports the commission's view that a liberalised energy market should be created.
‒ fn meps voted against this energy bill because, firstly, it increases the powers of the european union, secondly, it is foolishly anti-russian, and thirdly, it paves the way for the tafta treaty.
despite some positive points, such as the reminder of the national prerogative to choose the energy package or the maintenance of subsidies for fossil fuels, we are opposed to this text.
we are not happy with his anti-russian and pro-american approach, in particular his demand that energy be included in the ptci and his denunciation of russia as an 'unreliable' partner.
‒ the aim of the report is to create 'a more economically and physically integrated single energy market' which 'could lead to considerable efficiency gains'.
with just a few days left until the end of cop 21, all environmental commitments have disappeared and the report encourages and supports "the exploitation of conventional indigenous oil and gas resources in the north sea, eastern mediterranean or black sea".
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of nuclear proliferation.
i am voting against this text, which does not take any account of the energy challenges facing europe.
as regards its ecological aspect, ambitions have been raised.
the main disagreement is over shale gas and nuclear energy.
‒ this gróbarczyk report on the european energy union includes some laudable objectives such as the desire to retain the national prerogative of choosing the energy package, or the non-reception of the idea of the transformation committee of the agency for the cooperation of regulators, etc.
however, media reports have shown that the ptci negotiations were largely in favour of us energy exports and that the european negotiators were subject to the us energy lobby.
this ideological relationship is therefore not in the interests of consumers, since it prefers to sacrifice cheap energy (at regulated prices) because of its origin and will favour the import of energy from countries that are not recommended (qatar, etc.).
‒ i voted in favour of this particularly balanced text which calls for the implementation of a genuine energy union.
the report stresses the competence of the member states in the composition of their energy mix, but also supports the development of renewable energies, conventional hydrocarbons and nuclear energy.
it does not oppose in principle non-conventional energy sources, in particular shale gas.
at institutional level, it insists that all matters relating to the energy union should be dealt with under the ordinary legislative procedure and therefore involve parliament fully.
finally, and this is a very positive point, it asks the commission to report annually to parliament on the implementation of the energy union using detailed indicators.
‒ this report on the european energy union includes some commendable objectives such as the desire to retain the national prerogative of choosing the energy package, or the non-reception of the idea of the transformation committee of the agency for the cooperation of regulators, etc.
however, revelations in the press have shown that the ptci negotiations were largely favouring us energy exports and that european negotiators were subject to the us energy lobby.
this ideological relationship is therefore not in the interests of consumers, since it prefers to sacrifice cheap energy because of its origin and will favour the import of energy from countries that are not recommended (e.g.
i am referring in particular to the desire to bring down the price of energy and to do everything possible to reduce our dependence on imports.
to do this we should create a single energy market which should be based on a voluntary common purchasing mechanism.
‒ i voted in favour of the energy union report because it proposes concrete and ambitious measures to build a fully integrated european energy market.
in cop 21, the energy sector should meet the greenhouse gas reduction targets by supporting decarbonised energy and improving existing technologies to reduce energy consumption.
we must support renewable energy sources and energy efficiency measures with the extension of regulatory measures or financial incentives, such as the european fund for strategic investments, which will have to play its full role in decarbonising energy.
furthermore, the development of energy production and distribution infrastructures and the interconnection of member states' networks would reduce our dependence on our historical suppliers, end the isolation of certain member states from the european energy market and strengthen the security of supply of the european union.
energy independence, efficiency and security will be the winning triptych of the european energy union.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the commission's communication on the energy union.
the text stresses in particular the aspects of energy security and the need to diversify energy sources and supply routes.
it is important that the eu member states work together to reduce their dependence on energy imports; this will require action by integrating their energy markets, improving security of supply, using their existing and renewable sources and managing demand.
the security and competitiveness of energy supply will be central elements for the energy union.
‒ this report deals with the implementation of the energy union, the main topic on the juncker commission's agenda.
the document contains some positive points, notably the partly eurosceptic tone of the report, which recalls, for example, the national prerogative to choose the energy package.
this report is aimed at polluting companies and proposes in particular the exploitation of shale gas and oil, under the heading of 'non-conventional energy sources'.
the commission is proposing to include energy in the cipp.
the text also supports the commission's view that a liberalised energy market should be created.
‒ i voted against this report by the european parliament entitled 'towards a european energy union'.
the eu's basic energy policy guidelines are in complete contradiction to the modest progress achieved at cop 21 in paris.
following the commission's proposal for an energy union, this resolution follows the same lines: use of nuclear and fossil fuels, low ambition in promoting renewable energies, and capture and storage of co2.
one of the few really positive points is the demand for a binding 40% energy efficiency target, which is necessary but not sufficient on its own.
we are far from any climate ambition in which the energy question would be integrated; we remain in a mercantile approach that favors the big energy groups, ignoring any approach based on energy as a public good.
energy poverty and moderation of energy consumption are hardly taken into account.
we are therefore in a continuous process, far from any ambitious energy policy that can respond to the fight against global warming.
it outlines the prospects for a european electricity grid ready by 2020. overall, this text reflects the reality that the member states are best placed to tackle the problem of energy poverty in the union.
the text also recalls that the member states have exclusive competence to define the energy package.
‒ i voted in favour of this debate because it encourages the creation of better interconnection of electricity grids, both for renewable energy.
this crucial step must help us achieve our climate goals and make europe more competitive with cheaper electricity.
evaluations should be comprehensive, including in terms of economic, social and environmental impacts, and should be carried out by qualified experts acting independently of the project promoters.
‒ this own-initiative report sets out the european parliament's recommendations for a european electricity network, in the context of the european commission's proposals on the energy union presented last february.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources.
this integrated market would facilitate energy trade within the european union, thus increasing market stability and security while reducing the volatility of electricity prices.
‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report entitled achieving the 10% interconnection target in the electricity sector - a european electricity grid ready for 2020. it contributes to the debate on the reorganisation of the energy market, and more particularly on the need to develop electricity interconnections within and between member states.
this is a prerequisite for making renewable energy production installations 'profitable', whether they are industrial or come from consumers/producers.
this is a necessity to ensure the energy security of the european continent.
this is why financial incentives should be given priority to limit the risks of investment (juncker plan and efsi, dedicated taxation) in sustainable, 'smart' and connected technologies.
in doing so, the competences of the national authorities must also be respected; the commission has also proposed that the member states should not destabilise existing networks by seeking to coexist two principles which are difficult to reconcile: energy independence and openness to competition.
it must serve climate objectives but also public service values such as accessibility through connecting all territories and reducing the energy bill.
the problem is that all this is part of the ideological project of the european energy union, which i oppose, and which obliges the states to a minimum percentage of interconnection of 10%, which i have difficulty in understanding the economic relevance.
the report also calls for increased funding and powers for the agency for the coordination of national energy regulators, acer.
our european energy market is gradually being established despite the obstacles it faces.
we need it, however, to make the energy market more flexible and to ensure a high level of security of supply, both within a member state and between member states through crossborder grid areas.
it is also necessary to ensure that investors benefit from a favourable framework for sustainable investment.
this report outlines the prospects for a european electricity grid ready by 2020. overall, this text reflects the reality that member states are best placed to tackle energy poverty in the union.
the text also recalls that the member states have exclusive competence to define the energy package.
this report contributes to the debate on the reorganisation of the energy market, and more particularly on the need to develop electricity interconnections within and between member states.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
‒ fn mps voted for this energy bill because it is positive for france.
in 2002, the european council adopted a target of at least 10% electricity grid interconnection by 2005. in 2007, it postponed the achievement of this objective until 2020. interconnected networks ensure energy security, maintain affordable prices and promote the increased share of renewable energy in the decarbonisation process.
however, this is all part of the 'energy union' which aims to further liberalise the sector.
this report outlines the prospects for a european electricity grid ready by 2020. overall, this text reflects the reality that member states are best placed to tackle energy poverty in the union.
the text also recalls that the member states have exclusive competence to define the energy package.
‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on european energy policy.
the text recommends developing electricity interconnections within the union and sets a target of 10% interconnection by 2020. the aim is to guarantee european citizens a secure, sustainable and affordable energy supply based on solidarity and trust.
i approved this text and supported in particular the recall of the competence of the states to determine the composition of their energy mix.
i do, however, deplore the language used in recital q, which calls russia into question and describes it as 'an unreliable partner which uses its energy supplies as a political weapon'.
‒ network interconnection is essential to the development of a european energy market as demonstrated by the report on the connecting europe facility, which i was co-rapporteur.
the benefits will be many, not only in terms of energy, but also in economic, climatic and geostrategic terms.
‒ the european union is the world's largest energy importer, with 53% of its energy imported, amounting to €400 billion per year.
‒ in connection with the report on the energy union, the european parliament adopted another own-initiative report on the development of the interconnection of the european electricity grid in 2020. launched in 2002, the resolution aims to achieve a 10% level of electricity grid interconnection by 2020. the interconnection project should reduce the energy isolation of certain member states not connected to cross-border networks and improve the security of energy supply.
the aim would also be to reduce the european union's dependence on energy imports, but it is clear that this dependence is growing, particularly in the case of fossil fuels.
but it is also proposed, in the usual ultra-liberal logic, to phase out regulated energy prices and support market mechanisms for determining electricity prices and infrastructure investments.
this instrument could therefore be useful, in particular through social integration through work (unemployed, disabled people), access to credit for the most precarious entrepreneurs, the creation of sustainable jobs, especially in this period of austerity and banking prudence.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources for sustainable fisheries in europe.
‒ this own-initiative report is part of the implementation of the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) adopted in 2013. the new cfp is based on the objective of maximum sustainable yield (msy) and applies stock management at the level of biomass size, reproductive stock and fishing mortality.
simplifying the measures of this legislative framework and enhancing cooperation in certain areas are essential to achieve the objectives of the cfp, namely to minimise by-catches and the impact of fishing on the marine environment.
this should lead to more sustainable fishing, ensuring the reproduction and conservation of species and protecting an important economic sector for many member states, including france.
‒ the new common fisheries policy is based on three key ideas to ensure the sustainability of the fisheries sector through sustainable management of fisheries resources.
the multiannual management of quotas aims to give clarity to fisheries companies, the objective of maximum sustainable yield aims at optimising catches in accordance with the state of stocks, and the participation of regional advisory councils brings management decisions closer to local operators, whether they are fishermen, scientists or members of ngos.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the new common fisheries policy, which has been in force since january 2014. the policy is based on four main pillars: maintaining fish stocks above the maximum sustainable yield (msy), making all catches landed, management plans to manage fish stocks on a multiannual basis and regionalising technical measures.
since the 2013 cfp reform, all multiannual plans have to include a maximum sustainable yield objective with a timetable for achieving it, measures to implement the discard ban and the landing obligation, as well as back-up mechanisms for taking corrective action and review clauses.
we still need to put this on paper, but we will succeed because we will remain committed to sustainable but competitive fishing.
‒ the common fisheries policy (cfp) is supposed to guarantee the sustainability of fisheries while ensuring a fair standard of living for fishermen.
for us, the conclusion is clear: we have to get off carbon, we have to get off fossil fuels, and we have to do it very quickly if we really want to get close to 1.5 degrees.
having sectors that are totally exempt from climate responsibility is also a failure of the paris negotiations.
the fact that we have not succeeded, under pressure from the oil-producing countries, in including decarbonisation, the entry of the price of fossil fuels and the price of carbon in the negotiations is also a failure.
my takeaway is that, at the end of the day, if the path to this 1.5 to 2 degree warming finish line is unclear, there are some extremely interesting tools, including this five-year review - and hopefully already a review, or at least a start to a review in 2018 - because it reflects a new governance of climate policies.
civil society, businesses that have understood the climate challenge and local authorities, which are often ahead of the states, will regularly be actors in new climate policies.
i think that's really the good news of this negotiation: democratic public debates will be held regularly on climate policies and it will be up to us to rise to the challenge each time, to move from this moment of climate irresponsibility in which we are, with commitments at 3 degrees, to this responsibility at 1.5. but it also implies a responsibility for the european union: it is not the status quo, it is not a return to business as usual; 30% reduction in our emissions by 2020, commissioner, that must be your objective.
reviewing the climate-energy package - as the european parliament has again called for - in terms of emissions, efficiency and renewable energy is your agenda.
but this is the world we live in, where governments are just one of the actors in the fight against climate change, alongside local governments, civil society, business.
the reality is not quite that, because the paris agreement is not binding, and it boils down to declarations of intent that will prove insufficient to limit global warming, if it is still edible.
the cop 21 and the union today want to reduce carbon emissions, but the union continues to advocate unbridled free trade, in particular by refusing to implement a community preference that would encourage the relocation of our means of production and thus avoid importing consumer products from tens of thousands of kilometres away.
and of course, the fewer kilometres a commodity travels, the less greenhouse gases are released into the atmosphere.
cop 21 and the union also want to preserve biodiversity and encourage responsible agriculture, but at the same time the union is validating the transatlantic treaty, which will have the effect of importing into europe products which do not meet any of our social or environmental standards and which are putting hundreds of small family farms in grave danger of death.
i am not even talking about the total absence of a visionary policy on the part of the union and its support for renewable energy sources in particular, nor will i mention the facilitation of the import of oil sands from canada, which is a real threat to the boreal forest.
madam president, after copenhagen and the disappointment of copenhagen, i can say that we have come a long way, because bringing 195 countries together around a climate agreement was a real tour de force, and we can welcome this fine step forward thanks to the unwavering will shown by the french presidency and the talents of its diplomacy, and above all i welcome the role of the luxembourg minister, carole dieschbourg, and our commissioner, arias cañete, whose efforts have been rewarded.
but i remain confident because the commitment of civil society and our businesses to reduce their emissions is a new one.
and this is where the economy and the climate come together, which i think is very positive.
however, let us consider this summit as the starting point of a new collective awareness at international level on the issue of climate change, and in particular on its train of disruptions, floods, hurricanes, droughts, which we have to face more and more frequently.
it should be remembered that we, the european union, account for less than 11% of global co2 emissions.
it should recall our principles of humanitarian aid intervention and also contribute to all sustainable financing to respond to crises while promoting the strengthening of the links between humanitarian aid and development policy.
mr president, yes to the european border and coast guard, yes to the strengthening of europol, yes to aid to turkey, jordan and lebanon to guarantee the shelter and safety of syrian refugees, yes to aid to africa, after the valletta european-african summit, after cop21, to help african states to prevent migration, to combat terrorism and to develop their economies without compromising the environment.
however, despite obstacles related to trade agreements, on 10 october 2013, when the pwai board of directors announced a plan to phase out the closure over an 18-month period, with the final closure scheduled for june 2015, it confirmed that the decision to close the pwai site was not at all due to the employees, as productivity and efficiency had increased and all important targets had been met or exceeded, for example, annual revenues, profits, health and safety, environmental the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health and safety network.
the egf shall have a maximum annual budget of eur 150 million for the period 2014-2020. i have supported this report because i believe that one of the purposes of the european union budget is to help the declining sectors to move towards a more sustainable economic model.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
alien, animal or plant species, considered to be invasive and potentially dangerous either for native species, the environment and biodiversity, or even for human health.
it is estimated that these species represent the second largest cause of biodiversity loss in the world.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to ionising radiation.
in addition, the european food safety authority (efsa) conducted a study and concluded that the plant in question posed no risk to human health or the environment.
on the contrary, the commission followed the procedure in place for the authorisation of gmos, including an analysis by the european food safety authority (efsa) on the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment before issuing a proposal for authorisation.
i would like to denounce the stupid attitude, excuse the term, which led our colleagues to refuse to take account of the opposition proposal of the enl group in the committee on the environment and its amendments in plenary.
the european food safety authority has conducted a study which concluded that maize is safe for humans, animals and the environment.
however, the commission followed the procedure for authorising these products, relying in particular on an analysis by the european food safety authority (efsa) which established the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment.
the commission has followed the procedure for authorising gmos, including an analysis by the european food safety authority (efsa) of the safety of the plant for human and animal health and the environment, before issuing a proposal for authorisation.
these include country-by-country accounting reporting, reaffirming its public nature; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment (2007-2013).
‒ the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the european union and china should be an opportunity to take stock of cooperation between the two entities, but also to consider coordinated responses to global challenges such as terrorism, immigration, climate change and financial governance.
this requires improved respect for human rights, freedom of expression and commitments to environmental protection by the chinese political authorities.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the union and china, the text recalls that the strategic partnership concluded between the two parties is a fundamental instrument in the search for common responses to a range of global challenges, such as global and regional security, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development.
this type of closer cooperation could help to address common global challenges and threats such as illegal immigration, terrorism, climate change and global financial and market governance.
it is worth noting that a chapter on sustainable development should be included, as economic growth has led to significant environmental problems and high inequalities in china.
these include the fight against terrorism, illegal immigration, security, climate change and global financial and market governance.
finally, it is important to continue to work together to improve the situation of environmental protection and to encourage china to take further action in this regard.
this agreement should cover the fields of industry, agriculture, technology, energy, environmental protection, etc.
the report recognises the need to address the challenges facing the eu and china together, including environmental issues.
‒ i abstained on the report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry.
‒ the conclusion of this report is the same as that of the national front for many years: environmental standards are becoming more and more restrictive, especially in the base metal industry, and are the main reason for the loss of competitiveness of european industry.
the text proposes to develop an ecological adjustment at the borders, by obliging importers to buy co2 emission quotas on the market for polluting rights when introducing products from the steel industry or primary aluminium.
the angle taken to safeguard and develop this industry is the ecological adjustment at the borders, by obliging importers to buy co2 emission allowances on the market for polluting rights when introducing products from the steel industry or primary aluminium.
‒ while the report's assessment of the state of the steel industry and aluminium production seems to us to be correct, particularly when it emphasises their strategic nature, the flight of decision-making centres out of europe and the impact of environmental constraints on the productivity of european companies, the same cannot be said for the proposed solutions, which are very complex and essentially consist of obliging importers to buy co2 emissions on the market for polluting rights.
he admits that the environmental standards imposed by the commission are the cause of the loss of competitiveness of this industry.
the commission is proposing to oblige importers to buy emission allowances on the market for polluting rights in order to combat environmental dumping by emerging countries.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by edouard martin on a sustainable european base metal industry.
the report proposes concrete measures to safeguard the competitiveness of the steel industry and the union's steel industry, but also to combat climate change.
the aim of this text is to introduce an adjustment of the carbon emission quotas at the frontiers, in order to prevent unfair competition from the union's trading partners subject to standards that are much more flexible than ours.
they must enable the union to impose its social, fiscal and environmental standards.
‒ this own-initiative report proposes measures to support the metal industry, which is extremely vulnerable to international competition and to european climate and energy policies.
the report proposes the introduction of a carbon border adjustment scheme, the aim of which is to impose a carbon tax on goods entering the european union that are subject to less ambitious environmental quality criteria.
it also refers to the revision of the emissions trading system (ets).
i supported this report, which aims to ensure the competitiveness of the base metals industry, in particular through a review of the emissions trading system.
european producers, who, unlike their international competitors, are obliged to comply with high-level environmental and energy obligations, are struggling to remain competitive in the face of chinese steel sold at very low cost.
to protect this sector and its jobs, it is therefore essential to invest and develop sustainable european regulation for raw materials and base metals.
in particular, a carbon taxation system at the eu's borders should be introduced to oblige foreign importers to declare the carbon content of their metals and to purchase emission allowances in order to sell on the community market.
to do this, we advocate the introduction of a carbon border adjustment (cca) and the future reform of the emissions trading system (ets) to protect the competitiveness of european industries.
the text makes a relevant diagnosis of the disastrous industrial policy that europe has suffered (in particular by mentioning the far too restrictive environmental standards).
the need for a global agreement on co2 emissions, which would harmonise scattered and ineffective texts, was also mentioned.
to demand long-term energy supply contracts in a fully liberalised market.
we talk about competitiveness and impose the most severe climate policy constraints on our own companies.
in addition, the price of energy in europe is extremely high compared with other producing regions.
a long-term carbon adjustment mechanism at the border is in itself a good idea, but we must be careful that it does not become a huge burden on our industries because such a mechanism would automatically raise the price of imported raw materials.
we need a strong and sustainable industrial base.
the commission is proposing to introduce a co2 adjustment at the borders of europe to prevent unfair competition from those who produce in territories with less stringent standards than ours, but sell in europe, while at the same time fighting climate change.
the point is that europe can and must act to defend its businesses, its employees, its know-how, its social and environmental standards.
the european union must impose its social, fiscal and environmental standards if it is not to be reduced to being a single market.
‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr édouard martin, on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry.
to this end, harmonisation of energy prices and increased investment in research and development would be beneficial.
its irreplaceable experience in this industry has enabled it to come up with shared and effective recommendations: a 'carbon adjustment' at the union's borders for metals that have not been produced with the same respect for the environment as in europe; long-term electricity contracts for industrialists to smooth the cost of this major input; the development of the circular economy of scrap metal; and above all, the encouragement of new forms of governance that encourage reinvestment in the productive tool, such as public participation.
‒ this report, written by a social democrat and former steel unionist, explains the difficulties of the european base metal industry through the 'higher taxation, levies and costs linked to the energy networks'.
the carbon market.
the report even envisages allowing the steel industry "to benefit from totally free allowances in sectors which are at risk of losing their international competitiveness because of high carbon costs".
i am voting against this unjust text which ignores the interests of european workers and which is clearly contrary to the environmental objectives set out by the european union at cop21.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry, the main objectives of which are to contribute to the reindustrialisation of europe and the restoration of fair conditions of competition at international level.
the measures include reducing and harmonising energy prices in europe through better integration of the internal market, modernising trade defence instruments against unfair practices and dumping, banning distortive practices on raw materials in regional, bilateral and multilateral free trade agreements, and investing in research and development so that europe can remain a centre of excellence in the production of base metals.
i have in particular approved the maintenance of the system of state compensation for indirect costs in the sector of energy-intensive industries and its harmonisation at european level, with the aim of ensuring fair conditions of competition with third countries and between european producers.
‒ i voted in favour of this report by my colleague edouard martin because i support the development of a strong and sustainable european base metals industry, in particular through the implementation of innovative strategies such as a co2 adjustment at europe's borders to prevent unfair competition from those who produce in territories with less stringent standards than ours, but sell in europe; also to combat climate change.
a social and fiscal environment in the member states that is not adapted to globalisation has led to the loss of more than 60 000 direct jobs and 100 000 indirect jobs for our industries.
in order to remedy the distortion of competition caused by unilateral application of the ets, the report proposes the implementation of carbon-adjustment measures at the eu's borders, to avoid the union's legitimate environmental ambitions becoming a burden for our industry.
the report also suggests that revenue from carbon auctions could be used to fund environmental schemes such as the green fund, under the polluter-pays principle.
i also voted in favour of the implementation of a carbon border adjustment and the reform of the emissions trading system but it is important to ensure that these measures are not too burdensome for our companies and industries and that we can defend ourselves against any form of dumping.
‒ the martin report aims to save the european steel industry in the best possible ecological conditions.
we are calling for a border adjustment to penalize products manufactured without respect for the environment and for a strengthening of our trade defence mechanisms.
marked to the left and concerned about the sustainability of our production, the report drawn up by my colleague édouard martin also proposes to fully include employees in decision-making and to develop the circular economy of heavy metals.
multinational companies in the sector have taken advantage of this increased competition to relocate production to countries with low social and environmental standards.
despite some ambiguities on the issue of carbon markets, i voted in favour of this report which was widely discussed with the trade union organisations in the sectors concerned, although i have no illusions about its significance other than symbolic.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the first violation of human rights is to have to leave one's country, one's roots, because of war, because of dictatorial regimes, but also because of climate change.
in 2014 - and the preda report addresses this in paragraph 72 - 17.5 million people were displaced as a result of disasters caused by climate hazards.
these displacements are mainly in the southern regions, which are most exposed to the impacts of climate change; 85% of these are in developing countries.
secondly, we must lead by example by including climate change measures in all our international development agreements to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees.
this is our fight of the century if we don't want to have 200 million climate refugees in the world tomorrow.
the moratorium on the death penalty has been lifted and criminal responsibility is effectively set at 10 years, or even 7. in this climate of freedom-killing and inequality, the maldives is reportedly the country in the region that sends the most young people to iraq and syria, relative to its total population.
this small country is facing catastrophe, and the rising waters caused by climate change are also threatening it.
‒ a commission of inquiry into the measurement of polluting emissions in the automobile sector, following the notorious volkswagen case, would damage the image and value of european car manufacturers, at a time when the sector is subject to increasingly intense global competition and economic warfare.
while we regret that industrialists have circumvented the regulations in force, my colleagues from the national front and i believe that the defence of the economic interests of the member states of the union is essential to maintaining a viable economic and industrial environment in europe.
this is why the focus should be on better monitoring of national type-approval authorities under the supervision of the european commission, better control of the emissions tests carried out and the implementation of tests in real driving situations as soon as possible.
it will also reduce emissions in the automotive sector, which is essential for the environment and the health of our citizens.
we know what measures need to be implemented and that is what we need to focus on: better monitoring by the national type approval authorities under the supervision of the european commission, better control of the emissions tests carried out and the implementation of tests in real driving situations as soon as possible.
with these measures we will avoid a new scandal, we will reduce emissions in the automotive sector, which is essential for the environment and the health of our fellow citizens, and we will encourage the industry to make technological progress.
we know what measures need to be implemented and that is what we need to focus on: better monitoring by the national type approval authorities under the supervision of the european commission, better control of the emissions tests carried out and the implementation of tests in real driving situations as soon as possible.
with these measures we will avoid a new scandal, we will reduce emissions in the automotive sector, which is essential for the environment and the health of our fellow citizens, and we will encourage the industry to make technological progress.
‒ a commission of inquiry into the measurement of polluting emissions in the automotive sector, following the 'volkswagen affair', could damage the image and value of european car manufacturers in a context of increasingly intense global competition and economic warfare.
while transparency is a fundamental issue, the protection of the economic interests of states remains essential to a viable economic and industrial environment in europe.
it is true that it has the merit of calling for the creation of a committee of inquiry into the volkswagen case and that it is necessary to measure the pollutant emissions in the automobile sector.
this week the european parliament has issued a doubly ambitious response to this, first to the council and then to the states, which had let their guard down in the face of the interests of the car lobby, by taking the decision to raise the permitted levels of nitrogen oxide emissions.
the european parliament has asked the commission to take action in response to the scandal of volkswagen's emissions cheating and investigations are already under way.
as cop 21 has just ended, it is a step forward in the fight against the scourge of air pollution and a positive signal sent to european citizens to ensure and strengthen compliance with emission standards.
we know what measures need to be implemented and that is what we need to focus on: better monitoring by the national type approval authorities under the supervision of the european commission, better control of the emissions tests carried out and the implementation of tests in real driving situations as soon as possible.
with these measures we will avoid a new scandal, we will reduce emissions in the automotive sector, which is essential for the environment and the health of our citizens.
‒ in the aftermath of cop 21, while europe showed the extent of its ambition in the fight against co2 emissions, we could not sit idly by in the face of emissions of other pollutants (such as nitrogen oxides and fine particulate matter from diesel engines).
the scandal of vehicle emissions fraud, because it is a system that is harmful to both the environment and public health, by allowing cars to emit far more pollutants than the manufacturers advertise, cannot go unpunished any longer, and the european parliament owes the citizens a duty to shed light on the subject, including whether or not european or national institutions are involved in the fraud.
above all, we must seize the opportunity to invest in alternative engines, the best way of reconciling the protection of industrial jobs and our environment.
it will allow for more intensive cooperation on a wide range of issues of common interest, such as the fight against corruption, innovation, including new technologies, sustainable development, disarmament and the fight against terrorism.
it aims in particular to strengthen cooperation between the two sides in a range of policy areas, such as taxation, migration, health, the environment, social affairs and technology.
it will allow for more intensive cooperation on a wide range of issues of common interest, such as the fight against corruption, innovation, including new technologies, sustainable development, disarmament and the fight against terrorism.
i am voting against, as i am against all the other free trade agreements of the union, which are motivated only by the commercial interests of multinational firms, whereas solidarity protectionism and ecological planning should be promoted in trade.
it will allow for more intensive cooperation on a wide range of issues of common interest, such as the fight against corruption, innovation, including new technologies, sustainable development, disarmament and the fight against terrorism.
it also expressed concern about environmental degradation and land grabbing, which is a real scourge in vietnam.
from this point of view, mass immigration policies, liberal laws (marriage and adoption for homosexuals, the dissemination of gender theory in the school environment), expulsions from illegal and unsanitary camps are presented as intolerable violations of human rights.
it imposes the union's vision on 'climate refugees', etc.
the issue of climate refugees is very relevant because it is the next mass migration that we will face if we do nothing.
the french arms export control system goes beyond the eight criteria defined by the common position and our arms export policy already takes into account the strategic situation and the regional environment of the state of destination.
‒ virunga national park, in the democratic republic of congo, has been a unesco world heritage site since 1979 and is a true 'ecological sanctuary'.
this "ecological sanctuary" of 790,000 hectares, which has been listed by unesco since 1979, is threatened by armed groups (more than twenty) who, in addition to fighting with the regular army, are engaged in poaching, deforestation and "other illegal and unsustainable forms of resource exploitation", but also and above all by the prospecting conducted by soco international, to which the drc government has granted oil concessions covering 85% of the park's area.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ i voted for this resolution because it defends an ecological sanctuary against the threat of oil exploitation.
for once, environmental protection may be able to outweigh the financial appetites of multinational corporations!
it is designed to defend an ecological sanctuary that is a unesco world heritage site, which is now more than ever threatened by a london-based multinational oil company.
it is a unesco world heritage site and is world-renowned for its rich biodiversity, including the critically endangered mountain gorilla.
‒ virunga national park is an 'ecological sanctuary' of 790,000 hectares, listed by unesco since 1979, which is threatened both by armed groups (more than twenty) who, in addition to fighting with the regular army, engage in poaching, deforestation and 'other illegal and unsustainable forms of resource exploitation', but also and above all by prospecting by soco international, to which the drc government has granted oil concessions covering 85% of the park's area.
‒ virunga national park is an 'ecological sanctuary' of 790,000 hectares, listed by unesco since 1979, which is threatened both by armed groups (more than twenty) who, in addition to fighting with the regular army, engage in poaching, deforestation and 'other illegal and unsustainable forms of resource exploitation', but also and above all by prospecting by soco international, to which the drc government has granted oil concessions covering 85% of the park's area.
this park, located in north kivu province and eastern province of the drc, on the border of rwanda and uganda, is africa's oldest national park, a world heritage site and world-renowned for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, unmatched in africa; it is particularly known for its mountain gorillas.
it is clear that in parallel, we will need to help the national government to define sustainable energy and economic solutions for the communities that are heavily dependent on the natural resources of the park.
i vote for the protection of this ecological sanctuary.