well, tell that to 220 of my constituents who lost their jobs when tilbury power station closed in 2013. the large combustion plant directive has forced the closure of the plants in the uk that provide us with a third of our energy.
all of this was done while ed miliband was secretary of state at the department of energy and climate change.
it allows for national bans to apply to groups of gmos, rather than on a case-by-case basis, and fails to completely rule out the possibility of member states citing environmental and public health grounds for national bans.
this conflicts with the efsa risk assessment process, whereby the environmental and public health risks of gmos are examined on a case-by-case basis prior to union authorisation.
it provides for a strengthened environmental impact assessment on new gmos.
- i voted in favour of renewing the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of são tomé and príncipe because i believe that establishing sustainable fisheries policies in sao toméan fishing zones is in all our interests.
establishing sustainable fisheries policies is also crucial, especially in terms of fighting illegal fishing.
the fisheries partnership agreement, alongside other instruments providing development support, such as the european development fund, should foster the genuinely sustainable development of the são toméan fisheries sector and of related industries and activities, so that more of the added value resulting from the exploitation of são tomé’s natural resources remains in the country.
in addition, the protocol will strengthen cooperation between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe with a view to establishing a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fisheries resources in são toméan fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
it also responds to a request from the republic of the seychelles for reciprocity in the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfpa), with an agreement that enables seychelles vessel owners to fish in european waters.
— i supported the request to have a consultation in order to underline how important sustainable mobility is in relation to jobs, growth and tackling climate change in europe.
— i supported this request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on ‘implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: taking stock and way forward towards sustainable mobility’.
madam president, it is a funny thing: when we talk about climate change in this chamber, we are constantly told that the vital thing is to venerate the scientific consensus.
- crucial in winning my support for this report was the fact that, compared to the original council position, it provides for enhanced environmental impact assessments of new gmos, stronger measures that allow for better management of the coexistence of gm and non-gm crops, and increased protection against the unwanted influence of biotech companies.
furthermore, this text will allow for national bans to apply to ‘groups of gmos’ – rather than being applied on a case-by-case basis – and fails to completely rule out the possibility of member states citing environmental and public health grounds for national bans.
both of these elements conflict with the efsa risk assessment process whereby environmental and public health risks of gmos are examined on a case-by-case basis prior to union authorisation being granted.
— the scottish national party is opposed to the cultivation of gm crops in scotland: apart from the uncertainties about the long-term environmental effects, scottish farming relies on a reputation for quality and environmental sensitivity, and we must not jeopardise consumer confidence in any way.
we should focus instead on reforming the eu’s environmental risk assessment and authorisation process to reflect the opposition of a majority of member states and of europe’s citizens to the imposition of gm technology.
i consider it unacceptable that, under current rules, the commission is legally obliged to authorise the import and processing of new gmos, even in cases where a clear majority of member states are opposed to their use.’ in this climate it is right that member states be given the right to make decisions on gmo cultivation.
in addition, it also provides for strengthened environmental impact assessment of new gmos as well as more robust coexistence measures for better management of gm and non-gm crops.
if the eu turns its back on technological innovation in the agri-food industry, how are we to meet the great challenge of ensuring food security and sustainability?
— the scottish national party is opposed to the cultivation of gm crops in scotland: apart from uncertainties about the long-term environmental effects, scottish farming relies on a reputation for quality and environmental sensitivity, and we must not jeopardise consumer confidence in any way.
we need to focus instead on reforming the eu’s environmental risk-assessment and authorisation process to reflect the opposition of a majority of member states and of europe’s citizens to the imposition of this technology.
in addition, it allows national bans to be applied to ‘groups of gmos’ – rather than on a case-by-case basis – and it fails to rule out completely the possibility of member states citing environmental and public health grounds for national bans.
both of these elements conflict with the european food safety authority risk-assessment process whereby the environmental and public health risks of gmos are examined on a case-by-case basis prior to authorisation being granted.
the proposal includes strengthened environmental impact assessments for gmos, and coexistence measures for border areas, so that traditional crops cannot be contaminated by gm crops in a member state that has opted out.
labour meps also supported amendments in the environment, public health and food safety committee that removed the council-backed idea of a phase of negotiations with agrichemical companies as part of negotiations over banning the cultivation of gmos.
mitigating incidental captures and improving the protection of these and other endangered animals, such as seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and coral species, will be crucial if we want to avoid causing irreversible damage to the ecosystem of our seas.
the proposal contains technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement area.
the proposal contains technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm agreement area.
we need investment in energy, transport, digital, innovation, production, but politicians cannot keep spending taxpayers’ money, so we must encourage that private investment.
on behalf of the british labour delegation i welcome much of what you will be prioritising for the coming months, prime minister, especially on issues such as energy security and the implementation of the investment plan.
failing to increase engagement with these countries would equal failing to deliver growth, high social standards, stability and progress on tackling climate change.
we will have the first chance in new york in september, when we will get together to replace the mdgs by the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
linked to the debate on the sdgs is, of course, the climate change agenda, and we will have the climate talks in paris in december.
it is the poorest in the world who are already paying the price of climate change, and we have to link climate change and development, which is why it is very important that we have the kind of coordination that i know you, mrs mogherini, are leading in the commission.
citizens have vital rights that this parliament and its predecessors have voted through, and – whether it is passenger rights, environmental safeguards, the right to a paid holiday – these are not often enforced in the way that they should be.
mr president, i supported this resolution because i believe a sustainable solution to the crisis in libya is long overdue and i sincerely hope that the new round of talks launched yesterday in geneva will allow all major stakeholders to reach a sustainable agreement on political transition and bring an end to the appalling humanitarian crisis.
the only option for a sustainable solution is one that respects ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.
— mr president, the current political climate in egypt has offered a vacuum for an escalation in violence and persecution against religious minorities, including christians living in that country.
is it not plain that countries – possibly not limited to the united kingdom, possibly other member states – who are not part of this federal vocation could negotiate some kind of associate membership where we stay in the single market but withdraw from the other policies – on justice and home affairs, foreign policy, environmental protection and so on?
i believe our citizens deserve strong eu action that delivers growth, quality jobs and progress on tackling climate change.
this means finally realising that the economy cannot be fuelled without adopting strong policies on issues like affordable housing, energy poverty, and education.
— i strongly support the inclusion of the air and waste packages in the wp and voted as such in the specific votes today (paragraphs 16, 18, 21(1), 9(1) and 23).
air quality in particular is a hugely important issue for european citizens, and we cannot underestimate the benefits, both for the health of our nations and to the wider environment, that would be found with improved legislation in this area.
— i do not believe the work programme is adequate in the areas of job creation and social protection and i think we need a strong line on tax havens and environmental policy.
— the eplp have pushed to ensure that fighting zero hour contracts as well as tax evasion and strengthening environmental policy is a priority for the european parliament.
so the true test of success here is not how many roads are built or how many pipelines are laid, but it is how many entrepreneurs will get financing and create sustainable jobs.
first, as we have said before, the climate is refusing to cooperate with forecasts: the figures show that since 1995 global warming has not been happening.
fact two is that we do have one clear success to report: on ozone.
as they also know, goal 13 of the sustainable development goals is to tackle climate change.
for colleagues on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, every country on the planet will have to adopt the sustainable development goals, and implement them: it is not like the millennium development goals.
– in the uk, nearly 70% of people say we are not doing enough to tackle climate change.
yet british politicians on the right choose to ignore this, claiming – in blatant disregard of the scientific consensus that exists among 97% of the world’s leading climate scientists – that the link between rising carbon dioxide levels and human activity is ‘open to question’.
firstly, moving forward the european energy union will be crucial.
an important test will be the roadmap on energy union which we expect to see next month and which should put us firmly on the path towards a sustainable, decarbonised economy based on renewables.
secondly, the emissions trading scheme (ets) needs urgent reform.
it might be for environmental reasons, it might be the air miles that are travelled, it might be about the way the meat is produced – the standards of husbandry.
mr president, the eu framework directive on waste, like so many outpourings of bureaucracy from these institutions, uses a one-cap-fits-all approach to the problem of waste disposal, despite the ways that different member states have traditionally approached this subject.
i just hope that it will one day listen to the voters who say they want no more meddling and waste, and no more eu bureaucracy.
as always, it is to create the environment where businesses can thrive and grow, by addressing skills shortages and by removing barriers, but above all by reducing administrative burdens on business, especially micros, and making it easier for businesses to compete in the global market place.
this means that up until this day we have dumping legislation that has not been revised since 1995 and does not take into account current-day social and environmental concerns.
— i voted against the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal as it is not adequate.
— i voted in favour of the nicolai report because i welcome the enhancement of cooperation between the eu and senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fisheries resources in the senegalese fishing zones.
i also welcome the fact that under the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement tailored support will be offered to senegal for conducting scientific research, monitoring and for fighting illegal fishing, as well as for small-scale fishing, including the rehabilitation of degraded ecosystems to allow the recovery of juvenile stocks.
— i voted in favour of this agreement as it will enhance cooperation between the eu and senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fisheries resources in the senegalese fishing zones, in the interests of both parties.
— i supported the report as it aims to enhance cooperation between the eu and senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy in the senegalese fishing zones, in the interests of both parties.
taking into consideration the opportunities for the senegalese economy to prosper from a better exploitation of the stocks available, in accordance with the principles of a sustainable fishery and the best practices in the industry, it is my opinion that the new agreement and the protocol are in both partiesʼ interests.
the aim is also to enhance cooperation between the eu and senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fisheries resources in the senegalese fishing zones, in the interests of both parties.
— i voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal.
i welcome the agreement and the mutual benefits that both senegal and the eu will enjoy in accordance with the principles of a sustainable fishery and the best practices in the industry.
additionally, i am in favour of enhancing cooperation between the eu and senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fisheries resources in the senegalese fishing zones.
food is the key element in the development of sustainable society, and it is time that the commission stared treating it as such.
it has proactively continued to monitor political, economic and social developments in the acp countries, with a view to promoting development goals and the respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms, including respect for fundamental social rights, democracy based on the rule of law and transparent and accountable governance that are an integral part of sustainable development.
i voted in favour of the s&d group tabled 10 amendments referring to human rights and non-discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in the acp countries, as well as calling for more a strategic approach for the jpa especially in regards to post-2015 sustainable development goals and the replacement to the cotonou agreement, which runs out in 2020.
in writing.
only a broad political consensus can provide a sustainable solution to the current crisis, and security is an essential prerequisite for the success of the transition.
if we could deal with the inefficiencies of drug waste, drug dumping and patient compliance, we would do an awful lot to help with patient access.
mr president, our energy prices are driving industries, jobs and investments out of the eu altogether, often to jurisdictions with lower environmental standards, while we undermine european economies.
the energy policy based on the 2008 climate change act will fail in its own terms.
we are damaging our economies and, with a growing carbon leakage problem, we are increasing global emissions all the time.
while solar energy will eventually become competitive in the near future, wind farms are hugely damaging our economies.
the emissions savings claimed for wind turbines are overstated.
mr president, i think it is a good start, but i had a look at one of the earlier leaked versions of the particular proposal, and one section caught my eye: ‘an energy union for research and innovation’, and in brackets: ‘needs more work’.
but there is not a single mention of storage of renewable energy.
if we are to be an energy union moving ever toward renewable energy, we have to find a way of storing it.
pump-action hydro is one method, but we are going to have to put a significant amount of work into understanding how we can ensure that all the energy we create is either stored or used.
we can ensure that renewables, conventional and unconventional energy, in the uk, in the netherlands, in belgium can actually begin to contribute to certainty, and it is that certainty which will allow us to plan and turn our eyes from the east towards the west.
mr president, i welcome an energy union for europe.
if we create a single market for energy then our constituents will benefit from the lowest possible energy prices that a free market can deliver.
lower energy prices across europe will help our businesses compete and will create jobs.
the key to energy union is interconnection.
if my constituents in bristol, plymouth and gibraltar are to be enabled to purchase their energy from any supplier in the eu, we need to properly integrate the european energy market, and a properly functioning market is the best way to give every member state energy security.
let us create a common market in energy.
that is why any efforts on developing an energy union need to start by modernising and upgrading our energy networks.
second, a successful energy union is one that benefits our citizens.
this means we need to commit to ensuring employment in the energy sector, increasing transparency on energy bills and tackling fuel poverty.
it is unacceptable that in 2015 between 50 and 125 million eu citizens suffer from energy poverty, meaning they are unable to access a basic level of energy services in their homes.
putting the interests of people first also means that we need to prioritise enhancing renewable energy, energy efficiency and a decarbonised economy.
despite the fact that some politicians on the right, including in the uk, still chose to ignore the scientific consensus that exists among 97% of the world’s leading climate scientists, climate change is not open to discussion.
in my country, 70% of people want us to do more to tackle global warming.
i urge the commission to be guided by their voices and make the energy union a key tool to achieve step-change in the run-up to the paris summit.
mr president, the eu has set its sights on europe 2020 targets of smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth, but it is february 2015 and still we are picking a course through the debris of the 2008 crash.
the role of women in small to medium enterprises – and especially in social enterprises – is crucial for the eu 2020 goal of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, for example, in respect of new green technologies.
finally, governments must have the freedom to act against the biggest civil challenge of our time: climate change.
so i am pleased that this report will preserve governments’ ability to promote green energy projects because, frankly, there is no point in having a level playing field if the playing field is ten feet underwater.
i have just come from the meeting of the committee on the environment where mr timmermans has been extolling the virtues of impact assessments, with seemingly the majority of members agreeing with him, so i can assume that the signatories are not against impact assessments per se.
with over 850 million people in the world who do not have enough to eat europe, with its favourable soils and climate, surely has a moral obligation to optimise agricultural output.
legalising mega-trucks throughout europe in densely populated areas with high traffic volumes would have, we believe, devastating effects for road safety and for infrastructure investment costs and would counteract all the good efforts for a more sustainable and efficient use of transport modes.
this together with low transport costs resulted in zachem’s inability to compete in this environment.
moreover, the effects of these changes in trade patterns have been worsened by other factors such as a decrease in demand in steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu as a consequence of the economic crisis and a relative increase of production costs (raw materials, energy, environmental constraints, etc.).
the coordinated package of personalised services has been drawn up in consultation with the targeted beneficiaries and the social partners, taking into consideration the potential of the area and the business environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the leichtfried report because i welcome the fact that the new directive would promote the use of alternative power-trains and aerodynamic flaps and cabs, thus contributing to reductions in co2 emissions, fuel savings and road safety.
all sectors should contribute to the transition to a sustainable economy and to an energy union.
heavy goods vehicles are responsible for about 26 % of road-transport co2 emissions in europe and their fuel efficiency has hardly improved over the last 20 years.
it will authorise longer lorries which is said to be justified on environmental grounds.
labour meps will continue to call for further action at eu level to improve vehicle safety and environmental standards.
in particular, the provisions amend the design of longer lorries, which will have a positive environmental impact and increase safety for drivers and pedestrians.
these cabins will not only reduce co2 emissions through improved aerodynamics, but they will allow for a wider field of vision through the installation of bigger windshields, thus improving safety for drivers.
these cabins will not only reduce co2 emissions through improved aerodynamics, but they will allow for a wider field of vision through the installation of bigger windshields, thus improving safety for drivers.
the core idea that european long-term investment funds (eltifs) would support social and environmentally sustainable investments is a positive one.
the shadow rapporteurs equitable and exhaustive amendments were not included in the compromises, despite being focused on sustainable and viable alternatives.
long-term finance is a crucial enabling tool for putting the european economy on a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in accordance with the europe 2020 strategy, high employment, and competitiveness for building tomorrow’s economy in a way that is less prone to systemic risks and is more resilient.
i welcome the emphasis placed on enabling greater competition in areas such as the digital market, public procurement and the supply of energy.
‒ while some amendments on the investment environment and financial stability of the banking union were adopted, my group abstained during the committee vote due to concerns that the report welcomes the ecb’s readiness to ‘do whatever it takes to save the euro’ and called for the ecb to explore unconventional monetary policy measures in the event of an excessively lengthy period of low inflation, which could see the ecb over-stepping its remit.
‒ i welcome the fact that this report encourages the ecb to consider in its balance sheet expansion policy the buying of eib project bonds, which fund some of the more productive investments in the euro area, particularly from those projects chosen by the commission as having european added value after a cost-benefit analysis, especially ten-t projects in energy and transport and projects related to the digital single market.
in september we go to new york, we have the sustainable development goals conference, and we have to put universal health care at the top of that agenda.
we have to have carbon dioxide.
what you are suggesting is absolute madness and our agricultural industry is going to suffer heavily if we attempt to bury carbon dioxide in the ground: it is absolutely mad.
mr president, next week the council will discuss the crisis in ukraine and the eu’s plans for an energy union.
mr putin also uses energy policy to threaten us, and here the eu can play a useful role.
i welcome the commission’s plans on the energy union.
that is real energy security.
it is so important we create the right environment to enable businesses to grow and create jobs.
mr president, to get sustainable public finances we need jobs and growth to help our businesses be competitive and to increase trade.
issues covered include management of resources using msy (maximum sustainable yield), discards and how to tackle iuu (illegal, unreported and unregulated) fishing.
‒ i supported this report considering the mutual interest in the development and the proper utilisation of the living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea and convinced that the conservation and sustainable use of the living marine resources in the area of application and the protection of the marine ecosystems in which those resources occur, plays a major role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development.
‒ i welcome the proper utilisation of the living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea and i am convinced that the conservation and sustainable use of the living marine resources in the area of application, and the protection of the marine ecosystems in which those resources occur, will play a major role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development.
‒ i voted against the guidelines for the 2016 budget because i felt that there was insufficient reference within the guidelines to reductions in areas of spending which have consistently failed to promote sustainable economic growth, such as in the common agricultural policy direct subsidy.
there are many examples within the south-east of england of european funding projects promoting sustainable growth, and we should be strongly backing such projects, by removing funding from areas like the cap and the wasteful second seat of the european parliament in strasbourg.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european integration process of kosovo because it is crucial that we send out a clear signal to the effect that, following the resolution of a six-month political stalemate, the government now urgently needs to achieve step change in strengthening the rule of law and the judiciary, eradicating corruption and organised crime, strengthening employment, and laying strong foundations for structural economic reforms and sustainable development.
‒ i voted for this report which stresses that reducing the eu’s dependence on external energy sources must form part of its growth strategy; it reiterates, therefore, the need to diversify external energy supplies, to upgrade the eu’s energy infrastructure and to complete the eu internal energy market as key priorities of the eu energy security strategy.
we need to create good-quality, well paid and sustainable jobs.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2015. the report emphasises that europe must be committed to the model of the social market economy, ensuring sustainable growth in order to provide the next generation with jobs instead of debts.
it must also be noted that the european social fund, with the youth guarantee, and the youth employment initiative have to be used fully and correctly to finance sustainable projects in order to fight unemployment, in particular youth unemployment.
‒ my socialist colleagues and i voted in favour of this report because it welcomes the commission's new approach to economic policy, with focus on sustainable growth and investment.
‒ i voted for this report, along with my s&d colleagues, as the single market is one of the defining characteristics of the european project and its exploitation needs to be fully realised so that we can all benefit from the sustainable growth and quality jobs it offers.
projecting single market priorities into all policy areas would ensure the completion of a viable single market serving as a catalyst for economic recovery and sustainable growth.
‒ i gave, together with my socialist colleagues, full support to this report as it believes the single market is one of the most powerful engines at eu level and its potential needs to be fully exploited to boost sustainable growth, competitiveness and the creation of new jobs; and the report fully reflects this.
the emerging threats now seen in the european neighbourhood region increase the importance of diversifying our member states’ energy supplies away from the exclusive sourcing from russian gas in particular.
i welcome this emphasis and the emphasis being placed on an eu future energy union.
as i am proud to have championed the directive on corporate non—financial reporting now agreed, with its specific reporting obligation on human rights, i ask the high representative to both support implementation of this framework, but also to champion the new sustainable development goal that ban ki-moon is supporting to ensure that that is a global, not just a european requirement.
the energy industry, which was supposed to be the cornerstone of libya’s recovery and a success story of the arab spring, is on the brink of collapse.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, the commission should note that the title of this item is ‘sustainable exploitation of sea bass’.
the common fisheries policy, based as it is on outright naked theft of natural resources by giant businesses under the protection of the eu, is an unmitigated economic, ecological and environmental catastrophe.
all of you sitting here – although there are not many this morning because perhaps you are just busy signing on – in this chamber spouting smug platitudes about caring for the ecosystem, looking after the impoverished of our world and acting as good stewards of the planet, i have news for you: you are being used by this giant corporatist scam and you are blinding yourselves to the truth.
the masai mara serengeti ecosystem supports the highest concentration of wildlife on earth.
the masai and other pastoralists see themselves as custodians of the land they inhabit and they play an essential role in conservation and environmental protection.
‒ i agree with large parts of the report, as it argues that the eu has yet to unleash its full potential to shape the international and security environment and needs a more proactive and credible foreign policy, based on a joint perception of interests and threats.
finally, this report swerves into many other policy areas such as development, trade, fiscal policy, climate and asylum and migration policies, which is something the ecr strongly opposed.
in the uk, sea bass anglers have shown a willingness to take sustainable measures and are responsible fishers tending to fish only for mature sea bass.
in name of biodiversity, this situation needs to be urgently reversed.
‒ labour meps and the s&d group voted in favour of the resolution on sustainable exploitation of sea bass.
– this resolution prioritised a wide range of human rights issues such as social and economic rights, women’s rights, civil and political rights, rights of the child, lgbti rights, and human rights in the context of climate change.
we took the first concrete steps towards an energy union with all its dimensions.
our discussion focused mostly on energy security.
leaders agreed that in future all gas contracts, both between governments and businesses, need to be more transparent to make sure that they comply with our rules and do not endanger our energy security.
finally, we agreed to step up europe’s climate diplomacy ahead of the paris climate summit in december.
we have agreed in the european council on the basic lines of the energy union on the basis of a list of proposals from the european commission which will soon be put to the legislative procedure.
i have here in this parliament - but in strasbourg, which is actually the seat of parliament - on 15 july, when we discussed the priorities of the then new commission - it is getting older and older, mr timmermans is also growing older, he is getting bigger the older the commission gets - it was made clear that the energy union is an important priority for the then new commission, which is now aged.
there are four fundamental freedoms in the european treaties - in the treaties of rome - and i would like us to add a fifth, without having to make any changes to the treaties: we also need the free movement of energy in europe!
we must therefore put an end to the national silos and the geoblocking of energy supplies.
i was very pleased that we had a summit in madrid a few weeks ago with the french president and the portuguese and spanish prime ministers to ensure the future energy supply of the iberian peninsula.
portugal is on the periphery of europe without being a peripheral country, because portugal is an important member state of the european union, but in terms of energy policy the supply situation in portugal, and in some cases also in spain, is very unsatisfactory.
i have also noted, rebecca, that the green group was not, to my great sadness, enthusiastic about the commission's proposals on the energy union.
on energy union and energy policy, we secured a commitment to the proposals put on the table but the detail was put off until another meeting.
we need to demonstrate – as ms grossetête said – how we are going to encourage diversification of energy sources, better interconnection and energy security so that our countries no longer have to rely on unpleasant regimes in the middle east or on russia.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, today i was going to talk about issues ranging from greece to the eu’s energy policy, but when travelling in i thought all this can wait because i do not believe today should be about political point-scoring.
(applause)
blue-card question.– you drew attention to the importance of interconnectors between countries in providing connections for transferring renewable energy across the union, but when i am out visiting small renewable energy producers they are much more concerned about upgrading to the grid so that they can put the energy they produce back into the grid network.
do you think that is also an important part of what we need to provide in the energy union?
however, as a green, i was deeply disappointed that, in this year that will culminate in the paris negotiations on climate change, our most important amendments – calling for ecological taxation, the ending of tax advantages and exemptions granted to the aviation industry, and the phasing out of other fossil fuel subsidies – were rejected.
we should all remember that tax, when used strategically, can provide incentives to move our communities towards the sort of future we imagine for our children, a future of sustainability and justice.
additionally, i do not believe that this represents any value for money and it is a waste of resources.
the violent conflict in the donbass has crippled ukrainian production as well as its energy industry.
as ireland tries to find a sustainable economic recovery it is crucial that we develop a healthier reputation as a transparent place to pay tax and face up to any changes necessary to create transparent global tax system where multinationals cannot escape their duties to countries, including developing countries.
this technology creates an ecosystem of smart applications and services which interact with each other.
we can be thankful now that labour and safety issues have been improved as a result of the eu-bangladesh sustainability compact – for instance 32 factories have been permanently closed in bangladesh as a result of significant safety concerns.
but good progress is being made, public awareness about production methods is improving, and we now have the sustainability compact with the bangladeshi government, the eu and the ilo.
it remains collectivised; it is treated as a common resource; it retains the concept of a maximum sustainable yield, taking little or no account of subsidy or illegality or the simple fact that if you try to operate at the limit of its sustainability you have no margin of error.
madam president, the multiannual plans under the new common fisheries policy (cfp) must meet the ambition of restoring stocks of fish by setting maximum sustainable yield (msy) levels plus a safety margin.
that is why we must always ensure in these plans that we have maximum sustainable yield calculated at a level that is sustainable, even if we get it wrong.
it is the challenge of doing more for less, and we need to create a more sustainable and prosperous fishing industry that protects our fish stocks.
i believe that much sustainable forest management is currently being constrained by well—meaning but overly prescriptive and bureaucratic environmental legislation, and that includes things like the eu timber regulation.
there are three main reasons for this importance: first, tackling climate change; second, creating jobs; and third, improving health.
on the first of these, tackling climate change, we already sequestrate – absorb – 10% of our carbon emissions at the eu level through our forest cover.
if we could increase that forest cover, and i believe we can – in the republic of ireland they are going to go from 10% cover to 18% cover by 2050 – we will sequestrate more carbon and play a better role in tackling climate change.
so tackling climate change, creating jobs and improving health all show why man’s best friend is not the dog: man’s best friend is the tree.
in particular: the proliferation of crops for biofuel production for fuel consumption there on land that could and should be used for food production; the betrayal of some local communities whose livelihoods have depended on that land; and of course the unintended consequences of indirect land use change that have resulted from the replacement of ecosystems that would actually have contributed to solving the problem of climate change.
co2 emissions will increase for decades, regardless of what we in this house do.
i welcomed the commission proposal when it was first launched, as i believe absolutely that we need to tackle the issue of plastic waste, particularly plastic bags, in the environment.
there are certain provisions which i believe would have been better addressed in the context of the follow-up to the commission green paper on plastic waste, such as the report on the use of oxo-biodegradable bags.
i have concerns that the possibility to vary the measures taken towards plastic bags, based on their environmental impact or other properties, could be problematic as regards the principle of non-discrimination and proportionality, as well as the possible impact on the smooth functioning of the single market.
this shows how weak the conservative commitment to environmental protection is.
i do not know that we have sorted it here, but what happens is that, if the biodegradable ones get into the recycled waste stream, they corrupt that waste cycle.
the underlying principle of reducing environmental damage from discarded plastic bags is, of course, one we can all support.
i am convinced – and knowing it from the constituency – that this is a very good technology that will help us address this pollution problem.
these measures will make many consumers get into the habit of reusing bags, which should reduce the amount of litter that blights our communities and natural environment, and costs a fortune to clean up.
the ecr is very pleased to vote in favour of this regulation, which will establish an eu system for monitoring, reporting and verification of co2 emissions from maritime transport.
‒ i gave my support to the ribeiro report on the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel because i believe it is vital to ensure that personnel sailing on fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job so that potential threats to safety of life and property at sea or to the marine environment can be minimised when operations are being carried out on seagoing vessels.
this will be important in promoting the safety of personnel, property and the marine environment.
this agreement must now be seen as a stepping stone and not the end of moving towards sustainable transport in europe.
– i opposed these rule on biofuels because they will not curb the negative impact of indirect land use change (iluc) on climate change.
i specifically welcome the fact that my group was able to push through wording on respecting the waste hierarchy, and protections for indigenous peoples’ land rights.
i also applaud that this legislation will help reduce co2 emissions from transport and curb the undesired effects induced by indirect land use change caused by biofuels.
unfortunately, due to the reluctance of the council and the commission, there has been a missed opportunity to make headway on developing an advanced policy on biofuels that delivers real benefits for the climate while offering a strong regulation for safeguarding the stability of investment and jobs.
i urge the council and the commission to seriously reflect on the crucial importance of a directive on fuel quality and renewable energy that truly responds to the eu’s ambitious goals in the fields of climate, energy, jobs, development assistance and, last but not least, the achievement of sound policy coherence between all these fields.
‒ the conservatives recognise the role that biofuels can play in reducing emissions and therefore help the eu and member states achieve important environmental objectives.
biofuels play an important role in the uk energy mix as the eu looks towards achieving its climate goals whilst achieving greater energy security.
an unscientific approach towards accessing the environmental impact of biofuels could have damaged business confidence in the sector.
‒ i voted in favour of the legislation as it will help reduce co2 emissions from transport and also curb the undesired effects induced by indirect land use change caused by biofuels, such as land use for speculation and higher food prices.
we have to move towards advanced biofuels with the proper regulation both for the environment and for the stability of investments and jobs.
the final offer includes a cap on conventional biofuels of 7% that can be counted towards the 10% target for renewable energy in transport and set a non-binding target of 0.5% for advanced biofuels.
it also obliges fuel suppliers to report on the indirect land use change (iluc) emissions of their fuels, but these will not be taken into account when calculating fuels’ carbon footprint under the fuel quality directive.
‒ today i voted in favour of the package on the fuel quality directive and renewable energy directive.
if we do not step up to the plate, the overarching challenge europe faces is the continent being technologically overtaken regarding sustainable fuels.
this will have a positive impact on the environment, for example by improving the greenhouse gas performance of biofuel production processes and encouraging biofuels to increase their market penetration.
‒ this amending directive applies to indirect land-use change (iluc) and amends the fuel quality directive and renewable energy directive.
the original directives aimed to enable a transition from fossil fuels to biofuels to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
however, these ʽfirst generationʼ biofuels use crops that would otherwise have been used for food or animal feed, and the indirect land-use change can produce enough emissions to negate the benefits of biofuels over fossil fuels.
this proposal caps the contribution of first generation biofuels to greenhouse emissions targets and encourages the use of advanced biofuels that will be more beneficial to our environment.
plastic bags are not biodegradable and can take between 400 and 1 000 years to break down in the environment.
it is estimated that 1 million plastic bags are used every minute globally which makes it no surprise that plastic waste is causing some serious impacts on the worldʼs oceans.
– i voted to approve new rules on plastic waste.
half end up in landfill sites where they can be blown into the environment.
‒ over 8 billion plastic carrier bags are littered in the eu every year, causing significant harm to the environment, especially under the form of marine litter.
‒ the conservatives favour proposals to reduce the consumption of plastic bags and their effect on the environment, particularly the blight of marine litter.
i believe that discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment and harm biodiversity as marine litter.
putting a charge on the use of plastic bags is a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem.
discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment, not to mention the harm being done by marine litter to biodiversity.
putting a charge on the use of plastic bags is a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem.
importantly, for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, we will have binding measures at eu level to reduce waste generation.
‒ discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment and harm biodiversity as marine litter.
putting a charge on the use of plastic bags is a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem overnight.
the s&d group believes that discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment and harm biodiversity as marine litter.
putting a charge on the use of plastic bags is a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem.
‒ discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment, therefore i voted against the efdd proposal to reject the council’s position on reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags.
‒ i voted in favour of the faria report, because the establishment of a european monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) system of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping is a crucial - and long overdue - measure to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions from the sector, and encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
‒ climate change and pollution are not restricted to international borders so the conservatives recognise that an eu-wide approach is needed to successfully tackle carbon dioxide emissions, in this case from maritime transport.
we also removed provisions that would have integrated maritime emissions into eu ets before any global agreement at the international maritime organization.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
at eu level, the international maritime sector accounts for around 3% of global greenhouse gas emissions and these are expected to increase significantly in the future.
an eu-wide system for the mrv of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping is necessary to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions from the sector, and encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
‒ i voted in favour of the report as an eu-wide system for the monitoring, reporting and verification system for co2 emissions from ships is necessary in order to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions from the sector, and encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
‒ i welcome this overdue proposal to introduce a system for monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
an eu-wide system for the mrv of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping is necessary in order to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions from the sector, and encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
– international maritime shipping is the only form of transportation that is not included in the eu’s commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
eu-related carbon dioxide emissions from international shipping increased by 48% from 1990-2007. the eu climate and energy framework for 2030 sets a binding eu target of at least 40% reduction in ghg emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. in setting this target the eu identified the need for ghg emissions reduction in the transport sector.
the approach proposed for reporting emissions on an annual basis will benefit operators in british waters, and is to be welcomed.
this agreement is an important first step in reducing co2 emissions in the sector without introducing unworkable administrative burdens on the shipping industry.
‒ labour meps voted in favour of the report on monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
at eu level, the international maritime sector today accounts for around 3% of global greenhouse gas emissions and these are expected to increase significantly in the future.
an eu-wide system for the mrv of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping is necessary in order to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions from the sector, and encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
‒ it is vital that we have effective co2 monitoring in the eu, which is why i voted in favour of this report on carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
by putting an eu system into place, it will be possible to monitor the shipping sector and encourage a reduction in emissions and fuel consumption.
‒ president, i gave my support to the wałęsa report because it is vital that we ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod, herring and sprat while providing stability for fishing opportunities.
i hope the council will prove it has grasped the urgency for a more sustainable approach by backing the ambitious measures called for by this house and support its use as a blueprint for the next management plans for fish stocks in other regions.
the inclusion of exploitation rates of fmsy as the upper limit for mortality is urgently required to promote sustainable fisheries in baltic waters.
the baltic map should ensure that the negative impact of fishing activities on the marine ecosystem is minimised and avoid destruction of the marine environment.
multiannual plans under the reformed common fisheries policy (cfp) must be in line with the objectives of the cfp to ensure environmental, economic and social sustainability and respect the precautionary and the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management.
the plan should provide for a balanced, sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities – and thereby of the livelihoods of fishers.
at the same time it should guarantee that the management would be based on the most up-to-date scientific advice regarding the status of stocks covered, interactions between species and other aspects related to ecosystem and fisheries.
the baltic map should ensure that the negative impacts of fishing activities on the marine ecosystem are minimised and to avoid destruction of the marine environment.
the new baltic multiannual fisheries plan is the first of its kind and will be beneficial in a number of areas, for example on conservation and minimising the impact of fisheries on the wider environment.
‒ i gave my support to the cadec report because it is crucial that we finally bring an end to the discarding of marketable fish back into the sea, which has been proven to be bad for fish stocks, bad for the marine environment and costly for fishermen.
i have stressed the need for a regionalised approach to these proposals as it is clear that a one-size-fits-all policy will not work and could negatively affect fishing regions that require a different approach to sustainability.
it will be phased in from this year onwards and will end the discarding of marketable fish back into the sea, which has been proven to be bad for fish stocks, bad for the marine environment and costly for fishermen.
this will end the discarding of marketable fish back into the sea, which will bring benefits to fish stocks, the marine environment and be financially beneficial for fishermen.
therefore, i voted in favour of this report as i believe it is crucial in view of pursuing the eu goals of sustainable growth and a knowledge-based society investing in quality education and learning.
‒ i voted in favour of the łybacka report given it represents a crucial contribution to achieving sustainable growth and a knowledge-based society investing in quality education and learning through the bologna process.
i therefore voted in favour of this report as i believe it is crucial in view of pursuing the eu goals of sustainable growth and a knowledge-based society investing in quality education and learning.
therefore, i voted in favour of this report as i believe it is crucial in view of pursuing the eu goals of sustainable growth and a knowledge-based society investing in quality education and learning.
therefore, i voted in favour of this report as i believe it is crucial in view of pursuing the eu goals of sustainable growth and a knowledge-based society investing in quality education and learning.
to make full use of its cultural and economic potential, the european film industry needs to thrive in the right environment, spurred on by a stable and adaptable legal framework which encourages investment and diversity, and allows new services to develop online.
this forms part of a much wider debate that must be duly considered – we support a legal framework that encourages entrepreneurship in the digital environment, but need to consider and understand the direct effects on digital goods which are easier to source across borders than physical goods.
while we may have sympathy with this idea in certain circumstances, this forms part of a much wider debate that must be duly considered – we support a legal framework that encourages entrepreneurship in the digital environment, but need to consider and understand the direct effects on digital goods which are easier to source across borders.
to make full use of its cultural and economic potential, the european film industry needs to thrive in the right environment, spurred on by a stable and adaptable legal framework which encourages investment and diversity, and allows new services to develop online.
to make full use of its cultural and economic potential, the european film industry needs to thrive in the right environment, spurred on by a stable and adaptable legal framework which encourages investment and diversity, and allows new services to develop online.
to make full use of its cultural and economic potential, the european film industry needs to thrive in the right environment, spurred on by a stable and adaptable legal framework which encourages investment and diversity, and allows new services to develop online.
however, i abstained on this vote because of environmental concerns, especially in the context of bio-energy.
moreover, there was no reflection in the report of concerns in relation to biodiversity problems, the multifunctional nature of forests, the creation of specific support measures to prevent and fight fires enabling early intervention or avoiding soil erosion and the recovery of vegetation cover.
‒ president, i supported the köstinger report because it's crucial we tap the full potential of forest management to mitigate climate change and create employment in rural areas, both in actual woodlands and in wood processing facilities, timber transport, as well as research and innovation facilities.
given that the extensive use of wood opens up new possibilities for employment but also poses challenges in terms of supplying adequately educated and trained workforce, it's vital we now focus on the development of dedicated education and training to familiarize (future) workers in the sector with new technologies as well as constraints associated with the sustainable use of wood.
the report deals with employment in the sector and sustainable use of forest resources.
indeed, forests are major contributors to our climate-change mitigation efforts.
one of the approaches to tackle climate change is to maximise the contribution of our forests which currently deliver a 10% mitigation factor .
‒ forests are major contributors to our climate-change mitigation efforts and one of the approaches to tackling climate change is maximising the contribution of our forests which currently deliver a 10% mitigation factor.
‒ sustainable forest management means guaranteeing the long-term safety of the forest for future generations.
indeed, this was the underlying principle of the un environmental conference in rio de janeiro in 1992: sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs and choose their own life style.
‒ forests are major contributors to our climate-change mitigation efforts.
one of the approaches to tackling climate change is maximising the contribution of our forests, which currently deliver a 10% mitigation factor.
the reasons why we need to manage our forests are not only limited to climate change mitigation.
nevertheless, extensive use of wood opens up new possibilities for employment but also poses challenges in terms of supplying an adequately educated and trained workforce, familiar with new technologies as well as the constraints associated with sustainable use of wood.
forests are major contributors to our climate-change mitigation efforts.
one of the approaches to tackling climate change is maximising the contribution of our forests which currently deliver a 10% mitigation factor.
it is important to manage our forests as not only are they major contributors to our effects to mitigate climate change, but they also create employment in areas such as in woodlands and in wood processing facilities.
the new strategy focuses on sustainable forest management and establishes objectives for the industry up to 2020, including job creation and contribution to a bio-based economy.
it also addresses new issues like climate change, over-exploitation and loss of biodiversity.
forests are major contributors to our climate-change mitigation efforts and have the potential to make an even greater contribution.
labour meps voted in favour of this report because this new forest strategy will increase european forest cover and enable us to actively manage our forests, creating skilled jobs while helping to combat climate change.
it seems therefore that the wasteful eu baggage train will roll in and out of strasbourg just about forever, and this waste would seem to be a suitable subject for the proposed prosecutor to address.
i would also say to anybody who is serious about the european parliament, and people like you are – i am not, i think it is a waste of time and a waste of money – that it is amazing that you can solemnly support the president of france in pursuing this disgrace of meeting in strasbourg twelve times a year.
it makes absolutely no sense at all and it is a large waste of money, and it is anticipating an eventuality that probably may not arise.
we are guilty for this crisis, we are directly guilty for the drownings that are going on, and we are hypocrites in this place when we talk about poverty in africa, when we pursue a common agricultural policy that puts barriers up to them selling us their agricultural produce, where we have a fisheries policy that rapes and pillages their seas and has caused environmental destruction, and we just assuage our consciences by giving away a bit of foreign aid.
when many member states are still experiencing austerity measures it is worrying to see the waste highlighted in this report.
we cannot afford to waste more time when the future of our young people is at stake.
but i have also raised regional concerns directly with the commission about the speed with which money will need to be spent before 2018. we want sustainable solutions not a flash-flood after a drought.
the commission has already been given the power to adopt regulations to declare that certain categories of aid are compatible with the internal market and as such do not need to be notified under art 108(3) tfeu, including aid in favour of smes, research and innovation, environmental protection, employment and training, natural disaster recovery etc.
the commission has already been given the power to adopt regulations to declare that certain categories of aid are compatible with the internal market and as such do not need to be notified under art 108(3) tfeu, including aid in favour of smes, research and innovation, environmental protection, employment and training, natural disaster recovery etc.
‒ i voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ i voted for the discharge of this report on the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the european environment agency (eea) is achieving good results in its area of work.
‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ the clean sky joint undertaking deals specifically with developing breakthrough technologies to significantly increase the environmental performances of airplanes and air transport.
‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking deals specifically with fuel cell and hydrogen energy technologies in europe.
‒ the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy brings together industry and research bodies in public private partnerships.
iter deals specifically with fusion energy.
‒ labour meps voted in support of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, as vice-president of this parliament’s delegation for relations with south asia, it is with deep regret that i have had to co-author this resolution about islands known for their incredible beauty, with strong links to my own country; islands that are at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
the recent arrest and conviction of the former president mohamed nasheed, the first democratically elected president of the maldives, who did so much in the past to raise the plight of inundation his country faces from climate change, is just one example of selective justice and corruption in a politicised judiciary.
it is essential for progress in this small island state threatened by climate change.
success in addis ababa will pave the way for success in new york in september on the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and, crucially, because the processes are linked, for success in the climate talks in paris in december.
i hope the commission and council will work with parliament in the coming weeks to prepare for the council, to prepare for addis, and to lay the foundations for ambitious agreements in addis, new york and paris that can form a true, global partnership for sustainable development from 2015 to 2030.
mr president, from what i have heard this evening, i am concerned that we are not recognising the huge difference between humanitarian assistance in areas of disasters and true development aid.
the days of conditional development for eu economic, social and environmental objectives are well and truly over.
the resolution itself takes a very broad and ambitious approach to what is achievable at the expo, urging the commission to make commitments on development aid, climate change, healthy soil and land-grabbing.
madam president, we are discussing feeding the planet and providing energy for life.
the eu green lobby are forcing thousands of acres out of food production in favour of expensive energy from solar farms and ad plants, while being utterly opposed to the cheap shale gas that sits underneath those same fields.
the european union cannot expect to achieve fundamental rights for workers in an environment where political governance has completely broken down and human rights are curbed on a widespread basis.
the eu cannot expect to achieve fundamental workers’ rights in an environment where political governance has broken down, widespread human rights violations prevail, and media freedom and democratic rights are curbed.
‒ we voted in support of the joint motion for a resolution on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and progress of the bangladesh sustainability compact.
in particular, it called for more investment in renewables and for the phasing-out of all energy projects in fossil fuels, and it also called for investment in regions with high unemployment and low gdp.
so it is right that this report focuses on areas where the eib could improve – providing more help for smes, increasing its transparency and accountability, and ensuring that it invests in projects that deliver strong social and environmental returns.
so it is right that this report focuses on areas where the eib could improve – providing more help for smes, increasing its transparency and accountability, and ensuring that it invests in projects that deliver strong social and environmental returns.
so it is right that this report focuses on areas where the eib could improve – providing more help for smes, increasing its transparency and accountability, and ensuring that it invests in projects that deliver strong social and environmental returns.
bearing in mind that the final draft text includes positive references to sustainable agriculture, limiting food waste and tackling hunger worldwide, the resolution as tabled can send a strong political signal about parliament's concerns regarding food and farming worldwide.
‒ the commission estimates that 30% of food worldwide is lost or wasted and that by 2020 annual food waste in the european union, currently approximately 89 million tonnes (179 kg per capita), will rise to approximately 126 million tonnes – a 40 % increase – unless preventive actions or measures are taken.
‒ this resolution includes positive references to sustainable agriculture, limiting food waste and tackling hunger worldwide.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the commission to help achieve, at global level, the goals of the un food and agriculture organisation in order to support the development of agricultural, environmental and social policies that encourage sustainable family farming.
the reality is that the culture of targets has caused an environment of deceit.
for the microbusinesses struggling to survive, there is no time to waste.
researchers want to unlock the benefits of big data – huge benefits for medicine, for the environment, for the economy – but individuals also want to know that their data is safe.
‒ the report represents an important contribution by the ep to the position of the eu in july’s high-level international conference on financing for development (ffd) in addis ababa (ethiopia), which is to create the necessary conditions for financing and implementing the post-2015 agenda for sustainable development goals (sdgs).
now is the time for other governments to commit, and for a strong new agenda to mobilise a range of finance to make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030.
in writing.
now is the time for other governments to commit, and for a strong new agenda to mobilise a range of finance to make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030. the eu must continue to make sure that development aid is more effective and better coordinated.
now is the time for other governments to commit, and for a strong new agenda to mobilise a range of finance to make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030.
in writing.
now is the time for other governments to commit, and for a strong new agenda to mobilise a range of finance to make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030.
in writing.
by mobilising a range of finance, member states can make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030.
in writing.
now is the time for other governments to commit, and for a strong new agenda to mobilise a range of finance to make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030.
in writing.
now is the time for other governments to commit, and for a strong new agenda to mobilise a range of finance to make the new sustainable development goals a reality and end extreme poverty by 2030.
madam president, i supported the report on safer healthcare in europe.
‒ as a member of the committee for environment, public health and food safety, i am acutely aware of the need for a coordinated approach for controlling healthcare associated infections (hais) and antimicrobial resistance (amr).
‒ ukip meps voted against this report as we feel it attempts to harmonise laws to the detriment of uk patients, uk companies and the uk health environment.
in my region, the west midlands, eu funding has been instrumental in driving forward the development of our region into one of the largest low-carbon environmental goods and services sectors, in terms of sales, in the uk.
if you wanted to say: ‘there is a price to be paid for ecological goals, we should be prepared to suffer slower growth in order to slow global warming’, that is fine and that is a perfectly reasonable argument with good and sincere people on both sides.
renewable energy production and storage technologies are coming more and more to the fore.
‒ the report stresses the opportunities arising from ‘green growth’ and the circular economy, in particular from renewable energy, energy efficiency, resource efficiency, waste management, emission reduction and electrification.
it underlines that the global market for environmental goods and services is worth eur 1 000 billion per year, and it is estimated that this amount will double or even triple by 2020. a strong emphasis is put on the challenges which face smes in the fields of financing, research and development, the legislative burden and enhancing cross-board cooperation in relation to green growth.
i do not believe that deregulation and the dismantling of european social and environmental standards are in the interests of my constituents in wales.
‒ comprehensive measures are needed for the eu to achieve its climate change targets, and i am pleased to see smes being considered as part of these measures.
green growth and smes are vital for future innovation and economic prosperity in light of the depletion of natural resources and climate change itself.
the conservative party always champions small businesses whilst striving to conserve and protect the environment.
‒ green growth sectors offer great economic and ecological benefits for smes in the eu, and are estimated to grow considerably in the coming years.
the starting point is that this economic growth can go hand in hand with environmental sustainability.
‒ i believe that overall the report could have been more ambitious, as the text focuses heavily on issues related to financing for smes and not enough attention is devoted to concrete initiatives for further sustainability, resource efficiency, energy efficiency and the circular economy.
‒ s&d meps voted in support of this report as green growth sectors offer great economic and ecological benefits for smes in the eu, and are estimated to grow considerably in the coming years.
the starting point is that this economic growth can go hand in hand with environmental sustainability.
but defence resources are scarce in the climate of austerity today, so smart defence and pooling and sharing are great ideas, but ultimately, our priority is for every eu member state to spend 2% of their national budgets on defence.
it is the stubbornness of many members that has led to no progress for over five years, so i encourage the commission to take this off the table and end this monumental waste of time.
i do not believe that quotas and forced relocation are sustainable, democratic or fair to the individuals in question.
‒ the eu model of agriculture is increasingly based on unhealthy agricultural systems which are not resilient, with very limited attention to biodiversity and crop rotation in the case of non-perma-crop monocultures, a lack of beneficial organisms, and biodiversity declining in general, thus making it relatively easy for exotic plants and animals to establish themselves; resistance to pesticides used as insecticides is accelerated by the excessive and uncontrolled use of these products, thereby jeopardising any phytosanitary successes achieved.
the resolution reflects the ambivalence on the european union side, recognising on the one hand the importance of turkey’s position as a strategic partner, and particularly its significance in economic and energy relations, while on the other hand there is so much about turkey itself which is subject to criticism.
energy cooperation is a crucial issue.
may i ask the commission what other specific barriers there are to opening the energy chapter with turkey?
to those who are concerned about the new gazprom deal announced between russia and turkey, which is by no means their first energy deal, i would say that this is an argument for opening the energy chapter to secure europe’s interest, and not to fight shy of it.
turkey has great geopolitical potential, as has been said by many, as a strategic country with huge economic and energy security roles and a vibrant and rich culture.
i believe the hunting of these creatures involves unacceptable cruelty and that well-managed, responsible tourism is the only truly sustainable use of these animals.
the eu also imposes alternative energy policies.
in direct consequence, electricity in the european union now costs twice as much as in the united states, and indeed energy prices in the eu increased by 40% from 2006 to 2013. further, the eu is a protectionist construct.
therefore, i am convinced that a lot remains to be done to link to a sustainable growth path to help smes find the right access to financing, and to tackle youth unemployment in a serious way.
there are three main structural regulatory challenges that we need to tackle in the coming months, which could contribute towards a sustainable growth path.
madam president, one crucial dimension of the energy union is the completion of a fully integrated internal energy market.
europe’s energy system is still too fragmented.
building a well-functioning, well-connected internal energy market will bring down retail prices in europe, contribute to the fight against energy poverty in my region, the northwest of england, and across the eu, while at the same time strengthening eu energy security.
the energy union action plan foresees the reinforcement of the european regulatory framework.
author.– mr president, we have massive political repression and a climate of fear in swaziland: a fragile civil society urgently needs our support.
to confront russian aggression effectively, certain european countries must wean themselves off reliance on russia for energy – and by the way, we should open the energy chapter with turkey.
we also need to reflect on the fact that the russian government has not just succeeded in hoodwinking its own population into supporting a policy that is putting the country on a collision course with its neighbours and wrecking its economy, but what is of real concern is that it is also, increasingly, gaining traction in our own member states and even with members in this house by wielding the power of money, energy and disinformation.
the undemocratic european union should not be taking decisions on abortion, whether you like it or not; on sex education in schools, whether you like it or not; on lesbian, gay and transgender roadmaps, whether you agree with them or not or even know what they are; or, indeed, on creating university chairs in gender studies and feminist research – which is a waste of money for people in my constituency who are going to food banks in this recession.
talking of the notion of steps, i was sharing a platform recently with christiana figueres, the un climate change negotiator, and she, quite presciently, said: ‘you do not win a marathon by taking only one step’.
right now, the scottish government have announced that they have failed to meet their ambitious climate change targets for the reduction of carbon dioxide.
i would like to say that in my group we believe that it is possible to be ambitious and pragmatic in our approach to greenhouse gas emissions.
we all saw recently the us senate voting against the general scientific advice, grudgingly accepting that climate change existed but denying any anthropogenic connection, and indeed those of us who went on the environment trip to washington saw that at first hand.
madam president, despite the fact that there has been no evidence of global warming for the past 15 years, the eu is now ratifying a new agreement to approve yet more ambitious targets for the union and its member states, when burdensome eu regulations and utopian green goals are already ruining our industries and driving a large number of our companies abroad.
the rapporteur states that, in order to strengthen its role as a world leader, it is important that the eu supports ambitious targets to combat climate change.
the eu is alone in saddling itself with stringent climate commitments, as other countries are not doing so.
we have forced up the price of energy and undermined our industrial competitiveness.
to tackle global warming.
but, colleagues, there has been no global warming for nearly 20 years.
no child in school today has actually experienced global warming.
future generations will look back on our catastrophic collective climate paranoia and compare it with witch-burning in the 16th century, or with the dutch tulip mania in the 17th.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, the european union has an energy security problem because it is too reliant on one source of energy – russian gas.
i agree with mr kariņš that russia is ruled by an unfriendly government which uses energy as a political weapon.
while improving energy efficiency and our use of renewable energy are both important, they will not have much impact on the eu’s energy dependency on russia.
if we are to relieve the focus on energy security, we should be willing to use all the tools at our disposal, including shale gas and nuclear energy.
we should also encourage the development of new technologies, especially carbon capture and storage.
i reject the calls in this report for binding climate and energy targets and interference in the energy mix of member states.
commissioner, the best way to ensure energy security for the whole of europe is to have a properly interconnected single market.
the commission should concentrate on resolving the technical and legal issues which prevent the free exchange of energy, and they should also use their funds for projects of common interest to improve the connectivity of our energy networks.
a properly-functioning and free market in energy across the eu will reduce prices for consumers and businesses and provide energy security for all of us.
(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i want member states to take sensible and proportionate steps to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, but that does not mean destroying our enemies (because we are doing this so much more quickly than all our competitors), and it also means that we maintain our standards of living.
madam president, there is almost no problem which cannot be made worse by regulatory intervention, and energy markets are a perfect example.
we have hit them with emissions targets, an emissions trading scheme – including backloading and a market stability reserve – feed-in tariffs, renewable obligations certificates and, in my country – the uk – a carbon price floor.
the rapporteur is right to call for energy conservation measures and indigenous energy production, especially shale gas.
but more than that, we need a stable regulatory environment to promote investment.
blue-card question.– energy—intensive industry is moving from europe to countries with cheaper energy costs.
that is why i know, for example, scrap metal merchants who are selling now to india because they can get a better price for doing so, even with all the carbon footprint involved in transporting that metal from the uk to india.
high energy prices push more of this to happen and cause fuel poverty for pensioners.
could, therefore, the european energy union prove counterproductive if it is not competitive?
madam president, on monday the g7 leaders agreed to cut greenhouse gases by phasing out the use of fossil fuels by the end of the century.
it is paramount that this objective is intertwined with our work on energy security.
energy security has become an increasingly important issue, not only for policymakers and the energy industry but also for the public, who are becoming more and more concerned about where their energy comes from and its affordability.
energy security is a crucial part of this puzzle.
however, to help design our energy union, we should not forget that millions of people in europe and in the uk are energy poor.
so how do we ensure that our energy is secure and affordable?
our actions and our policies need to be guided by three major responsibilities: affordability, security and also sustainability.
for all of these reasons, the s&d group has pushed to include binding targets on energy efficiency and renewable energy in the energy security strategy report, which we will be voting on tomorrow.
i believe that this vision is the only way to achieve our climate change targets, to combat energy poverty, to guarantee energy security across europe, and to protect our most vulnerable citizens.
in writing.– in the uk over 80% of people express concerns that we are becoming too dependent on other countries to secure our energy needs and nearly the same number of people say we are not doing enough to tackle climate change.
more than two million households in our country suffer from energy poverty, meaning they are not even able to secure the necessary fuel to heat their homes in winter.
the answer is clear: acting as a bloc, the eu has the potential to develop new technologies to increase energy production while reducing primary demand, optimise network infrastructure, and diversify supply options to decrease our dependence on uncertain imports from third countries, including russia.
all of this is possible while respecting national energy choices.
meeting the energy needs of our constituents should be a priority even for conservative and ukip meps.
the path to energy security lies in an eu strategy that puts energy efficiency first, promotes renewables, and invests money domestically to develop our green technologies industry and create jobs rather than wasting scarce resources on expensive imports.
now, obviously, if you happen to like all of those things anyway, it is easy to persuade yourself that there is no other method to control climate change.
but i would suggest that the facts about the environment suggest something different.
the countries which have done the most to improve environmental and ecological standards are the ones which have become wealthy and have therefore been in a position to do it.
in fact, the best thing to have happened for the environment was the collapse of the berlin wall and with it, the smokestack industries, which was exactly what those in the left of this house supported at the time.
there has been no climate change for 15 years and most global economies will abstain when called to ratify the new agreement.
‒ i voted in favour of the gardini report on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, in which the eu commits itself to limiting the average annual greenhouse gas emissions between 2013 and 2020 to 80% of base year emissions, because we need to send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change.
global warming is costing the world more than usd 1.2 trillion a year and eu citizens are telling us we should act.
in the uk, nearly 70% of people say we are not doing enough to tackle climate change.
climate change is posing a threat to the security and well-being of all, but the eu can be instrumental in turning this around.
the plan to have 90 000 diplomats in over 3 000 missions lobbying to win pledges on carbon cuts from countries ahead of the paris summit on climate change shows the huge added value coordination on climate change on eu level can have.
‒ the eu needs to ratify the doha amendment if the eu or the conference of presidents are to carry any weight when it comes to tackling climate change.
if the eu does not ratify the amendment, it will be seen as backing away from its responsibility to the environment and will lose any opportunity it has to take a lead on climate change negotiations globally.
having played an active role on many climate change related files in the envi committee, i understand the technical challenges that lie ahead, but i am also confident that this parliament will be overwhelmingly unified in its support of the doha amendment and i look forward to europe proactively setting the agenda in paris later this year.
‒ i along, with my labour party colleagues, voted in favour of this report as the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level.
‒ the kyoto protocol is a vital tool in the fight against climate change and today’s vote underlines the eu’s commitment to fulfilling its international obligations.
the eu’s work is complemented by the efforts of individual nations and in this context it should be noted that my own country, scotland, is now more than three-quarters of the way towards achieving its world-leading target of a 42 per cent reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020, with emissions falling 14 per cent between 2012 and 2013.
in writing.
‒ i strongly supported the recommendation to ensure that the doha climate agreement, setting targets for emissions reductions up to 2020, is still ratified by the end of the year.
‒ i voted in favour of the report as the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level, and the timely consent of the european parliament is necessary.
‒ as the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level, the timely consent of the european parliament is necessary.
here today, in this motion, we see iceland, a smaller nation than the united kingdom – iceland with less gdp and less influence in the globe than the united kingdom – entering into an agreement with the european union on a matter that is crucial for the people of the world: how we deal with our environment and how our international partners in kyoto agree on what we should do with the environment.
‒ as i explained in the context of the gardini report, i believe the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the eu will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change at international level.
this is a positive example of the eu using its scale to encourage other european countries to commit to their climate change targets, so i was happy to vote in favour of this agreement.
‒ i strongly supported the recommendation to ensure that the doha climate agreement, setting targets for emissions reductions up to 2020, is still ratified by the end of the year.
finally the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level, therefore rendering the consent of the european parliament to this agreement necessary.
‒ the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level, therefore rendering the consent of the european parliament to this agreement necessary.
mr president, i voted against this report because, frankly, the eu energy policies have been a colossal disaster.
the large combustion plant directive has closed the power stations in the united kingdom that provide us with a third of our energy.
if you look at the wider effect on energy prices, we face the chilling prospect of 10 000 to 20 000 people – mostly older folk – dying every year.
now, with the eu controlling our energy policy, our laws and our borders, and us giving the eu gbp 55 million a day, the public will finally – and only because of ukip – put this issue to rest so we can reject this union and its failed policies.
mr president, in the united kingdom we need a basket of different energy types.
other types of renewables – tidal power, for example – are much closer to being sustainable and economical, and being ready to be introduced.
the point is that we do not need an eu energy strategy.
we need a uk energy strategy.
‒ i welcome this focus on efforts aimed at improving energy security across the member states.
the presence of an energy supply that is stable and affordable in eu regions is of vital importance to national economies, to consumers and to households, including those most vulnerable.
of course, greater supply can aid this, and it is vital that t-ene projects of common interest (pci) start to receive crucial funding to carry out projects that stand to ensure better regional, national and trans-national connectivity in terms of the energy market.
‒ i voted in favour of the saudargas report because it is clear to me that the path to energy security lies in energy transition, putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables, and investing money domestically to develop our green technologies industry and create jobs rather than wasting scarce resources on expensive imports.
that is why i find it baffling that conservatives in parliament, including tories, voted down plans to guarantee european energy security.
given our current dependence on energy imports from unreliable partners like russia, the enormous threat posed to our security by climate change, and the crucial importance of the renewables and green energy sector for the real economy, i find their decision to side with vested interests rather than standing behind the well-being of our citizens completely incomprehensible.
by establishing an ambitious energy security strategy, the eu can play a crucial role in protecting our citizens against the possibly devastating consequences of sudden disruptions of gas supplies, as already experienced by some member states which were hit hard by disruptions in the winters of 2006 and 2009, and put us firmly on the path towards sustainable job creation.
‒ whilst i acknowledge that the eu’s environmental targets and energy security objectives are not entirely independent policy areas, i believe it is important that member states decide their own energy mixes.
fully renewable energy sources are insufficient if the eu is to meet its carbon reduction targets and alternative energy sources can play an important, intermediately step in this process and at the same time reduce our dependence on external energy sources.
this report should focus on reducing our foreign energy dependency in the context of an energy union whilst member states should then be able to determine their energy mix whilst committing to the eu’s environmental targets.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the path to energy security lies in the energy transition, putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables and investing domestically the money currently spent on expensive imports, to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs.
too many people in this house remain supportive of nuclear energy.
i cannot support the idea of nuclear power remaining a long-term answer to the eu’s energy needs.
‒ i supported the report and am extremely disappointed it was voted down by ukip and the tories, as it would have helped thousands of people across the europe out of energy poverty.
the eu currently imports more than half of all the energy it consumes at a cost of more than eur 1 billion per day – this cannot go on.
labour meps want to make sure the uk’s energy security is reinforced by reducing our dependency on fossil fuel imports and developing renewable technologies.
we are pro—business and pro—environment and know it is crucial to boost investment in renewable energy across europe.
‒ i voted for this report to ensure that our energy security is consolidated by a reduction on dependency on fossil fuels and by the exploration of new technology to support energy supplies in the future.
i am disappointed that it was not passed, as it also highlighted the need to tackle energy poverty and energy efficiency.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the path to energy security lies in the energy transition, putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables and investing domestically the money currently spent on expensive imports, to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the path to energy security lies in the energy transition, putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables and investing domestically the money currently spent on expensive imports, to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the path to energy security lies in the energy transition, putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables and investing domestically the money currently spent on expensive imports, to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs.
‒ events in ukraine have highlighted more than anything the need for eu member states to become more energy self-sufficient and to diversify their energy supplies.
energy imports cost eu member states up to eur 1 billion per day now, as over half of all energy consumption is met by imports.
completing the internal energy market is therefore of more importance than ever.
with this in mind, i am forced in this case to vote against the report but this does not dent my enthusiasm for greater work to ensure energy security.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the path to energy security lies in the energy transition, putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables and investing domestically the money currently spent on expensive imports, to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the path to energy security lies in the transition to a clean green energy supply that favours non-nuclear renewables, such as tidal lagoons.
however i voted against or abstained from individual amendments promoting or justifying nuclear energy, including those using ambiguous language or terminology.
my view is based on issues of long-term cost both to people and planet and the fact that it is impossible for us to accurately estimate the cost of nuclear decommissioning, or storage of radioactive and other toxic waste.
transport of raw, processed and spent nuclear fuel is also a financial and environmental burden.
money currently spent on imports would be better used on creating more jobs, infrastructure and research, to support a move away from old carbon-based energy supplies and controversial nuclear power generation.
we expect a new government to make progress on these key reforms, including by finding a sustainable solution to the peace process with the kurdish community and lowering the 10% electoral threshold.
it notes the importance of energy issues but does not call for the opening of chapter 15 of the acquis, which would help to reduce our reliance on russian gas.
ukraine needs the opportunity to take control of its own internal affairs to achieve its ambition of becoming a sustainable and united democracy.
the report highlights eu strategic interests in guaranteeing member states’ energy supply, and the security of oil and gas exploitation in the black sea.
i have been here for16 years and i have been railing against fraud, waste and corruption – and heaven knows, there is plenty of it – but maybe i was unfair to pick on the european union simply for sharing attributes that go with almost all global bureaucracies, including this one.
just this morning i had a meeting with people from my region who were talking about efsi as being a vital source of funding for the significant energy infrastructure gap that we have, which is a promising sign of where it can be used.
first, they showed how important it is for all of us to achieve a stable fiscal situation throughout the european union, in conditions that are sustainable and conducive to the implementation of the union's employment and growth agenda.
the five presidents' report, to which we have referred many times today, also confirms the importance of fiscal responsibility and financial sustainability and the central role of the stability and growth pact in ensuring market confidence.
we are relying on rules developed in the 1930s to regulate the business environment of the 20th century.
they must completely rethink their approach to corporate taxation if they want businesses to pay their fair share of taxes, if they want sustainable tax systems to be growth-friendly, if they want a single market attractive to business and investment.
therefore it is crucial that the right projects are selected in areas such as renewable energy and the digital market.
– in order to maximise the employment impact of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), member states should continue to undertake structural reforms that are effective and economically and socially sustainable, as well as other initiatives such as training programmes and active labour market policies, the support of conditions for the creation of quality and sustainable jobs, and investment in targeted social policies.
nevertheless, the plan provides the opportunity to front-load important spending on renewable energy projects, energy efficiency, electricity and transport networks, and seed capital for smes, at a time when europe is crying out for investment capital: under this plan many projects which otherwise would have been tied up in red tape for years can be brought forward now.
scotland can benefit significantly, from north sea marine energy grids to electric car infrastructure to renovation of buildings for energy savings.
the report as a whole is a bad recipe which lacks vision for ensuring the long-term sustainable future of the emu.
we have a good paper that demonstrates, in a clear way, the priorities of parliament on cmu – to increase growth and jobs across the eu – and, more critically, that underlines that growth has to be sustainable and should not prejudice financial stability.
with investment now 70% below its pre-crisis levels, there is an urgent need to invest and particularly to invest in the sustainable sectors of our economy.
a good example of this is the call for 70% recycling and reuse for municipal waste: very laudable – i support it.
however, to achieve these objectives, she states the european union should avoid exceeding the earth’s resources, which would also mitigate climate change.
there has been no discernible global warming for the last 18 years, even if you support the ipcc theory.
for example, the proposal for an eco-design directive will impose eu ecological design requirements on products.
who can afford to invest in such an environment?
mr president, resource efficiency and the circular economy are exciting opportunities to deliver benefits for the environment, promote new ways to tackle climate change and create jobs.
to focus on one element of the report we will, hopefully, adopt on wednesday, the 2050 horizon for sustainable use of resources in the eu contains a provision to implement the principle of cascading use of resources, notably in the use of biomass.
our rapporteur is right that the best way to help the industry is to create an environment in which the industry is best able to help itself.
threats such as trade embargoes, volatility, extreme climate and the ever-present risk of disease will always be there.
if we want to build a sustainable and competitive sector, we must be there to support them in times of difficulty.
madam president, our global climate talks in paris this december are a critical opportunity which we should not miss.
a strong, comprehensive and globally-binding deal will provide a clear signal to citizens and governments worldwide that we are committed to the massive transition needed to tackle climate change.
we urgently need to tackle dangerous climate change.
fewer and fewer workers are employed, while farming based on monocultures, flex crops and a greater reliance on chemicals and antibiotics has worrying implications for our biodiversity, ecosystems and the richness and variety of eu food cultures.
in my view, and in the view of my group, if this report is adopted by parliament it will provide an excellent blueprint for a progressive ttip that not only creates jobs but protects public services and the right to regulate, and defends labour and environmental standards.
the majority now accept that any investor protection must be transparent, must not limit the right to regulate, and must not undermine health, labour or environmental standards.
in this report we have also made it clear that the sustainable development chapter must be binding and enforceable.
do we really believe that the human rights standards from latin america, the labour standards from china, the environmental standards from other parts of asia, will be up to our standards?
but this report, if it is accepted by parliament and implemented by the negotiators, would create a europe that helps to create jobs but ensures that european standards on workers’ rights and the environment are at the heart of our economic growth strategy.
i am grateful to the many thousands of constituents who have contacted me with their concerns that ttip threatens our public services and health care, our jobs, environmental and food standards, small businesses and – an issue which is vital for wales – minority languages and cultures.
as a continent we are currently facing massive crises in greece, with migrants in the mediterranean, with conflict in the middle east and ukraine and with climate change.
when i and my team negotiate, we will never – nor will the member states and nor will you – accept a ttip that will lower protection for people or for the environment.
i have consistently called for major amendment of the report to ensure that our public services, food, health, environmental and labour standards in scotland are protected.
on the basis of comprehensive information, customers should be able to identify the most sustainable, fastest or best-value travel option for their specific needs, to book and pay online and to make their journey using a single ticket, irrespective of how many different modes of transport they use on the journey.
this is a worry notably in the case of particularly sustainable modes of transport.
‒ i welcome the commission’s proposal for a european fund for strategic investments (efsi); reiterate the need to support strategic investments with high economic and societal value added, promote sustainable innovation, skills and local jobs, boost the competitiveness of the eu and contribute to the union’s strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ this report considers the success thus far of the measures put forward under the 2012 milk package and identifies where action is needed to ensure a viable, sustainable and competitive dairy sector in the post-quota market.
finally, it is vital to ensure that future ppps within the post-2015 development agenda, pursue poverty reduction and other sustainable development goals, and are aligned with partner countries’ national development plans.
however, there were a number of positive aspects to the report including §51 which called on third countries to adhere to the eu’s environmental, social, health, food safety and animal welfare standards if they export to the eu.
the report’s concentration on these measures is highly relevant to the sustainable growth of the fruit and vegetable sector.
the move towards long-termism is an essential response to the financial crisis but is essential for sustainability too.
the commission produced a communication saying it was in favour of long-term investment, and i strongly support the directive incentivising long—termism, as it chimes with the global move being led by the united nations environment programme finance initiative, the un principles for responsible investment and the un global compact.
if alcoa, ing national grid and shell can reward their executives based not just on profitability but also on sustainability, so can other companies.
the aspects for institutional investors to engage with companies on social, environmental and human rights issues are important and are an important part of ensuring that the new eu law on non-financial reporting is actually used.
articles 3f, 3g and 3h risk revealing business-sensitive information with no obvious benefit to the public, and i ask: why should an asset manager be responsible for reducing his or her investees’ social and environmental risks?
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, the emissions trading scheme has been for some time now the eu’s flagship policy, but there has been no wind in the sails.
i am also aware that the phase 4 of the emissions trading scheme that we must shortly embark upon will again ask very serious questions about the functionality which we must achieve if the emissions trading scheme is to deliver and if in the bygoing we are going to begin to link that scheme with comparable schemes in the rest of the globe.
that is why i am pleased again to see that there are conditions affecting carbon leakage.
we do not wish to find ourselves securing significant reductions in our emissions simply by the exclusion and the loss of industry, which is important in so many parts of our union.
i believe we are going to make significant progress if we can put on the table the beginning of a functioning emissions trading scheme when it comes to the cop meeting in paris.
madam president, the eu emissions trading scheme is the cornerstone of the european union’s policy to combat climate change and covers around 45% of the eu’s greenhouse gas emissions.
however, the current eu ets is flawed, as it fails to address problems of oversupply of allowances in the market, which enable the industry to emit greenhouse gases.
it is crucial that we take action to repair the ets and turn it into a mechanism that both controls emissions and promotes investment in clean technologies such as renewables.
we need to give stability and predictability to the eu ets in order both to achieve our climate objectives and to give more stability to industry.
it has been the position of the s&d to support its introduction as soon as possible by transferring carbon allowances to the market stability reserves in times of over-supply and releasing them in times of under-supply.
the eu ets will be more flexible and more stable and therefore better placed to achieve our climate goals.
we must have a balanced system that will benefit our industries and enable a transition to a sustainable and green economy in europe, which will provide a model for other countries worldwide.
we have taken action through the modernisation fund, and we will have stability with other member states to make sure that this is an initiative which both protects the climate and promotes renewables, and protects our industries.
the idea that the ets and its traded co2 emissions will send a signal to the market, thus promoting energy conservation and new low-carbon technologies, has proved to be a failure.
we should not support plant closures, carbon leakage, and industry and job losses.
they have come up with no concrete idea of how else we would reduce greenhouse gases, and on that basis one can only conclude that they have no concern about decreasing greenhouse gases.
in fact, in many cases i am well aware that they deny that there is any problem at all with greenhouse gases, and it is unfortunate that this sort of argument is still going on here, because it certainly is way out of the mainstream of thinking on the science of these issues.
i would like to just mention one issue, and that is carbon leakage.
this is not incompatible with our climate change objectives, and it is very annoying to hear yet again today a polarisation of these arguments.
we talk about converting to low-carbon technologies – only yesterday, mr. timmermans sat here and told us that the future of european industry is in smart green technology – but in order to advance that we need to have investment, we need to be profitable and we need to be able to have the funds to go forward and make that change.
madam president, we in europe are facing a crisis of competitiveness, and that crisis is brought on by very high energy prices.
we are seeing investment moving offshore out of europe entirely, and yet we in this house today are discussing a policy explicitly designed to make energy more expensive.
we should be debating here today how we make energy less expensive.
what it is is an extremely cumbersome and bureaucratic and expensive carbon tax.
so why do we not cut to the chase and have a sensible carbon tax or, better still, no carbon tax at all?
and we have seen resilience, for example in the environmental services sector, during the crisis.
we also know we need to respond to global trends, the inefficient re-use of resources, the unsustainable pressure on our environment and, indeed, climate change.
we need to change working practices and methods to increase resource efficiency, minimise environmental impact and take care of those whose existing employment may be adversely affected by change.
we were clearly told in the hearing and elsewhere that we need a coherent comprehensive policy framework which will provide a predictable environment for training and investment.
that was recognised at the meeting of eu environment and employment ministers not so long ago.
we were also told in the background to this report that there are three very effective drivers of change: environmental tax reform (which proved very controversial in the committee), energy and resource efficiency and the development of the supply chain.
on behalf of the efdd group.– madam president, according to the figures quoted in this report, the renewable energy economy will create 20 million new jobs in europe.
i would also like to thank you very much for your discussion on the green employment initiative report, as well as for the enriching contributions of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi).
the commission will be carefully considering ms lambert’s report, not only in the implementation of the green employment initiative, but also when promoting green skills and social dialogue aspects in both the energy union and in the forthcoming circular economy package.
whether it is the social impact and the environmental impact of energy efficient buildings, or whether it is working on renewable energies.
so i really hope the commission is going to take this on board, as we have heard, in the energy union and the circular economy package.
nigeria is a prime example of how governmental corruption has nurtured an environment of low investor confidence, which has allowed corporations to abuse the free market by investing in the countries with the most disjointed tax evasion laws and ethos.
i think parliament’s proposed amendments are inconsistent with the principle of keeping euratom as a separate organisation responsible for the functioning of the nuclear energy sector.
indeed, during much of the debate and particularly in the detail of many of the recitals which were decided upon, it became absolutely clear to me that many of my colleagues were motivated by a philosophical belief in the danger of nuclear energy, as opposed to any particular regard to this proposal.
it shows that there is little understanding of the immense changes that the digital environment is bringing to consumers, users, right holders and businesses.
this is the best tool to influence the negotiations, and this week we have sent a clear signal that we want a good ttip which excludes our public services, however they are provided, organised or financed (including the nhs), which upholds and strengthens worker rights and our environmental standards and which ensures democratic scrutiny.
it has always been a priority for me to ensure key protections on public services, labour and environmental safeguards, and clear language that dismisses the use of private courts for investment disputes.
ttip offers an opportunity to set global standards on health, labour and environment and to set them high.
‒ i voted against this report as it is sinn fein’s position that the trans-atlantic trade and investment partnership being negotiated by the eu and us will have disastrous consequences for democracy, the environment, labour rights and public services.
these ranged from outright rejection of the ttip project to amendments aimed at protecting workers’ rights, public services, and the environment.
i have been clear from the start, isds needs to be modernized and improved to ensure that scottish public services are protected and environmental standards maintained.
‒ i, along with fellow labour meps, voted to protect the nhs, public services, workers’ rights and environmental standards in this vote on the ttip negotiations.
‒ along with fellow labour meps, i voted to protect the nhs, public services, workers’ rights and environmental standards in today’s ttip vote.
many of these differences have been adopted by countries to pursue policy goals unrelated to trade, such as the protection of the environment, public health and consumers.
the resolution failed to convince me that appropriate measures will be taken to ensure that ttip will not put downward pressure on a host of important regulations, thereby eroding hard-won social, environmental and health protections.
labour meps voted to reject the inclusion of any public service in ttip, regardless of how they are funded or organised, and to protect workers’ rights, environmental standards and food safety.
i firmly believe this will lead to a more sustainable and long-term focus, as well as increased accountability of directors to those who choose to invest.
‒ the european commission’s so-called ‘cornerstone’ of its climate-change policy, the emissions trading scheme, has been an objective and unmitigated failure.
its aim to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner has clearly not been achieved.
the surplus of allowances has had a major impact on the carbon price.
‒ ukip opposes the introduction of a market stability reserve, and the emissions trading scheme.
‒ ukip opposes the introduction of a market stability reserve, and the emissions trading scheme.
‒ i voted in favour of the belet report given the system for trading greenhouse gas emissions (ets) needs fixing urgently following the severe destabilisation caused by the economic crisis and the over-allocation of allowances.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as the current eu emissions trading scheme is flawed and fails to address to problem of oversupply of carbon allowances in the market which enable industry to emit greenhouse gases.
it is crucial we take action to repair the ets and turn it into a mechanism that controls emissions and promotes investments in clean technologies.
by transferring allowances to the msr in times of oversupply and releasing them in times of undersupply, the eu ets will be more flexible and more stable and therefore better placed to achieve our climate goals.
we must have a balanced system that will benefit our industries and enable a transition to a sustainable and green economy in europe which will provide a model to other countries worldwide.
‒ today’s vote marks an important step in rebalancing europe’s carbon market.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the agreement concluded by the european commission on behalf of the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation to associate the swiss confederation to horizon 2020.
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the agreement concluded by the european commission on behalf of the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation to associate the swiss confederation to horizon 2020, including cooperation within the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 and regulating the swiss confederation’s participation in the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter) activities carried out by fusion for energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the agreement concluded by the european commission on behalf of the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation to associate the swiss confederation to horizon 2020, including cooperation within the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 and regulating the swiss confederation's participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which approves the agreement concluded by the european commission on behalf of the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation to associate the swiss confederation to horizon 2020, including cooperation within the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 and regulating the swiss confederation's participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
‒ i supported this report which approves the agreement concluded by the european commission on behalf of the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation to associate the swiss confederation to horizon 2020.
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of this agreement which regulates the participation of switzerland in horizon 2020 and iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
we owe it to our citizens to tap the full potential of instruments offered by the eu to invest in sustainable and quality job creation; decent working conditions; decent living wages set up through collective bargaining; rights-based labour markets with adequate social protection; reduced labour market segmentation; and quality employment for all in terms of socio-economic security.
that is why today i voted in favour of the report on guidelines for employment policies of the member states which will support the achievement of sustainable growth and quality job creation.
that is why today we voted in favour of the report on guidelines for employment policies of the member states which will support the achievement of sustainable growth and quality job creation.
it is time for a change of direction, a time to address the needs of the people and actually commit to decent and quality employment and a commitment to smart, sustainable growth.
a just transition means ensuring targeted skills training and assistance is provided for workers and students – including workers dislocated from declining polluting industries – in emerging green technologies and energy efficiency.
‒ while the ecr can support the general sentiment of this report, it cannot support a number of specific paragraphs which we believe go above and beyond the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality including calls for a new directive on musculoskeletal disorders and carcinogens; the introduction of a financial transaction tax; the creation of decent and inclusive jobs by leveraging the power of public procurement via social and environmental clauses; and the introduction of a legal obligation on employers to include workers’ representatives in green workplace programmes.
additionally, social and environmental clauses should not be the portal through which these burdensome and costly measures are brought to parliament.
we need a fair transition roadmap on green jobs which combines environmental goals with green skills development strategies and targeted investments.
‒ i voted for this report which ‘highlights the fact that full implementation of environmental legislation, as well as the improvement of environmental integration and policy coherence across different sectorial polices in the eu, are essential for a full deployment of the potential linked to the green economy and therefore for the creation of green jobs.’
in writing.
action on tax avoidance and evasion will help developing countries work towards the un sustainable development goals, which aim to complete the task of the millennium directive and provide healthcare and education to all children.
with the forthcoming conference on financing for development, the summit on the sustainable development goals and the paris climate negotiations later this year, this is a very timely report.
action on such tax dodging will help developing countries work to towards the un sustainable development goals, which aim to complete the task of the millennium development goals and provide healthcare and education to all children.
through better use of our raw materials and energy, we can reduce our carbon footprint and lower our consumption of finite resources.
by improving the design of products, we can make our recycling more efficient, thereby reducing waste in landfills.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the circular economy and i am pleased that the majority of the european parliament has as well, especially in light of the commission’s decision to withdraw the waste proposal earlier this year.
any such move will not only benefit our environment but also contribute to significant cost-savings whilst creating an estimated 2 million new jobs by 2050.
in writing.
‒ whilst this is an own-initiative report, it proposes changes to the eu waste directive and for further eu legislation.
‒ whilst this is an own-initiative report, it proposes changes to the eu waste directive and for further eu legislation.
i therefore urge the commission to take an innovative and sustainable approach to issues such as resource efficiency, recovery, reuse and recycling of materials, which will become key elements of the production processes.
the challenge to compete in the global economy we live in today with an ever-decreasing supply of resources will more increasingly depend on innovation and sustainability.
the eu currently imports half of the resources it consumes and throws away around 600 million tonnes of waste that could be reused.
‒ the unsustainable use of resources is both causing environmental damage and posing an economic risk.
the global economy uses the equivalent of 1.5 planets’ worth of resources to produce global output and absorb waste.
to continue in this course would lead to an ecological and economic impasse.
the challenge to compete in the global economy with ever decreasing resources will more and more depend on innovation and sustainability.
‒ in march 2015, the commission confirmed its decision to withdraw the waste proposals which it had published in 2014 as part of its circular economy package.
broadly, i welcome elements of this report as it recognises the link between making better use of resources and minimising waste if we are to move to a more circular economy.
the challenge to compete in the global economy with ever decreasing resources will more and more depend on innovation and sustainability.
the government has already set ambitious targets such as aiming to recycle 70% of all waste by 2025; banning all biodegradable municipal waste going to landfill by 2021; and preventing any more than 5% of waste materiel going to landfill by 2025.
in writing.
the challenge to compete in the global economy with ever-decreasing resources will more and more depend on innovation and sustainability
in writing.
‒ along with my eplp colleagues i voted in favour of this resolution as it calls for further work on the package to include a focus on more sustainable design and innovation; the need for smarter regulation; the need to remove barriers to innovative business models; better exchange of information; and the need for cross-cutting measures that take account of the synergies between environmental policies and other actions aimed at encouraging growth and innovation.
both our shadow rapporteur and the juri committee, consider this approach to be inconsistent with the idea of maintaining the european atomic energy community as a separate organisation responsible for the functioning of the nuclear energy sector.
fulfilling these conditions will be crucial for bringing sustainable peace to yemen and the region.
‒ as the eu’s chief election observer i fully endorse the view in this resolution that ‘the elections held in burundi on 29 june 2015 cannot be considered free, fair, credible and inclusive because the election process was seriously marred by restrictions on independent media, excessive use of force against demonstrators, a climate of intimidation for opposition parties and civil society and a lack of confidence in the election authorities, and urges the burundian authorities to postpone the presidential elections of 15 july 2015 and to involve all the stakeholders in the efforts to create an environment conducive to a peaceful, credible, free and fair electoral process.’
in writing.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, it is quite clear that the events in bahrain have been – and continue to be – disturbing, creating a climate of fear: fear of prosecution and fear of violence – and some fear for their lives.
collectively the european union stands upon its moral high horse, as usual, on one hand, whilst perversely facilitating the climate of fear to continue.
you raise a very valid point about this huge expense – this huge waste.
we have this huge amount of waste – and is it not symptomatic of this place that we have a lot of hot air: a lot of people coming forward and saying we have to do the right things?
i will just pick up one other point that i have time for: the suggestion to move to liquefied natural gas as a transitional fuel to help the environment.
rather, a move to a more sustainable approach to the entire food chain would benefit the customer, the farmer and the environment – a sustainable future, yes; a cloned future, no.
mr president, i fully support the moi-sommer report on cloning of animals, and i do this with the overwhelming backing of hundreds of my constituents, who are deeply concerned at the consequences of cloning for animal welfare and the sustainability of our food production.
thanks to the single market, the eu has the opportunity to answer citizens’ concerns, protect biodiversity and promote high global standards.
such a prohibition is necessary and in line with the expectations of the public and their concerns about animal welfare conditions and threats to biodiversity.
it is in line with concerns about the welfare conditions of cloned animals, threats to biodiversity and the current situation in the european agricultural sector, which does not need to resort to cloning in animal reproduction.
cloning farm animals might be a scientific advancement, but it has no environmental, social or health benefits.
‒ i opposed this report, which calls for further eu regulation and a common framework for the exploitation of energy sources in europe.
i believe that tidal power, for example, will eventually be a cost-effective renewable source of energy.
‒ i voted against this report as it calls for further eu regulation and a common framework for the exploitation of energy sources in europe.
i believe that tidal power, for example, will eventually be a cost-effective renewable source of energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report given it is crucial we develop a greater ability to use, manage and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans, and coastal areas in a sustainable manner.
the eu should take action to create sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and generate growth in areas such as developing offshore renewable energy technologies or supporting research into the blue biotechnology sector.
better management of our blue economy is key to several challenges, including developing sustainable energy sources and energy independence.
the focus of the eu actions should be on creating sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and generating growth in areas such as developing offshore renewable energy technologies or supporting research into the blue biotechnology sector.
a better management of our blue economy is key to several of our society challenges, including developing sustainable energy sources and energy independence.
the focus of the eu actions should be on creating sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and generating growth in areas such as developing offshore renewable energy technologies or supporting research into the blue biotechnology sector.
during the last 50 years there have been significant changes in the nature of humankind’s relationship to the sea, of which the following can serve as examples: the fact that fewer passengers are being carried by sea (and correspondingly more are being carried by air); the growing importance of leisure activities; the prospection for, and exploitation of, fossil energy resources (oil and natural gas, in increasingly deep waters) necessitated by the dearth of resources on land; seabed exploration (still in its infancy) and the prospects for deep-sea mining; the prospects for utilising the energy potential contained in waves, tides, currents, and biomass (seaweed) to generate electricity; offshore wind farms; and the development of marine-related biotechnologies.
a better management of our blue economy is key to several of our society challenges, including developing sustainable energy sources and energy independence.
the focus of the eu actions should be on creating sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and generating growth in areas such as developing offshore renewable energy technologies or supporting research into the blue biotechnology sector.
‒ better management of our blue economy is key to many challenges we face in society, including those of energy independence and developing sustainable energy sources.
the focus of eu action should be on the creation of sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and on generating growth in areas like the emerging offshore renewable energy technologies.
a better management of our blue economy is key to several of our society challenges, including developing sustainable energy sources and energy independence.
the focus of the eu actions should be on creating sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and generating growth in areas such as developing offshore renewable energy technologies or supporting research into the blue biotechnology sector.
i am a strong supporter of efforts to promote the blue economy and i am proud that my constituency is leading the way in one of its emerging sectors, with plans for a new tidal lagoon, that could deliver both environmental benefits (in the form of clean, sustainable energy) and investment benefits for the surrounding area.
a better management of our blue economy is the key to many of the problems facing our society, including developing sustainable energy sources and energy independence.
the focus of the eu actions should be on creating sustainable growth and employment in the marine and maritime economy, and generating growth in areas such as developing offshore renewable energy technologies or supporting research into the blue biotechnology sector.
this will not only promote economic growth but also promote the sustainable use of our natural resources wherever they may be.
‒ entrepreneurship education at all levels can be a highly effective tool for motivating young people, in their decision-making about career development and setting up their own sustainable business ventures.
‒ entrepreneurship education at all levels can be a highly effective tool for motivating young people, and in their decision-making re career development and setting up their own sustainable business ventures.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because, at all levels, entrepreneurship education can be an effective tool for encouraging our younger generation to develop and set up their own sustainable business ventures.
‒ entrepreneurship education at all levels can be a highly effective tool for motivating young people, and in their decision-making re career development and setting up their own sustainable business ventures.
entrepreneurship education at all levels can be a highly effective tool for motivating young people, allowing them to develop their decision-making, further career development and aid them in setting up sustainable business ventures that suit their abilities.
‒ entrepreneurship education at all levels can be a highly effective tool for motivating young people, and in their decision-making re career development and setting up their own sustainable business ventures.
the overarching aim of protecting and promoting the cultural heritage of eu member states, whilst boosting jobs and local economies through sustainable tourism, is one we share.
pensions must not only be sustainable in the financial sense, i.e.
they are now supposed to adhere to sustainability objectives.
however, in total and on balance, we very much support the report, and i welcome in particular the reinforcement of eu action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport by at least 60% by 2050. this is a vital statement for us to make in the run-up to the paris summit on tackling climate change.
it aims to help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and to promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources.
it aims to help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and to promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources.
it will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy in cape verde and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
‒ i supported the agreement as its aim is to enhance cooperation between the eu and the republic of cape verde, thereby creating a partnership framework within which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone of this country.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that it will lead to enhanced cooperation between the eu and the republic of cape verde and create a partnership agreement that will develop a sustainable fisheries policy.
it will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy in cape verde and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
‒ i supported the agreement as its aim is to enhance cooperation between the eu and the republic of cape verde, thereby creating a partnership framework within which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone of this country.
under the protocol, madagascar is expected to continue to cooperate effectively with the eu particularly as regards the sustainable management of fishery resources and the fight against iuu fishing.
‒ i welcome this report which acknowledges the benefits that the implementation of this agreement will bring for developing countries given the contribution it will make to a more business-friendly environment, in particular for smes; emphasises, in particular, that the agreement ought to reduce uncertainty regarding market entry conditions and the costs of trade by between 12.5% and 17.5% (according to estimates – such as those by the oecd) if fully implemented, thus allowing consumers to access a larger and cheaper range of products and businesses to access new markets and improve their competitiveness by increasing efficiency and reducing unnecessary red tape and associated costs.
cities are where two-thirds of our gdp is produced, and where the greatest challenges of our daily life lie too: tackling barriers to employment, social exclusion, pollution and climate change.
be ready to pay to have your domestic waste removed.
‒ i voted in favour of the report, as it suggests that eu policies should support and enable towns, cities and functional urban areas to express and attain their full potential as motors of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development.
for example, the north gaza waste water treatment plant was damaged, meaning that 95% of water in gaza is now unsafe to drink.
in the past, unrwa has regrettably been a byword for corruption and waste.
these include the israeli-palestinian bereaved families forum, made up of parents who have lost a loved one in the war and work together for peace, ecopeace/friends of the earth middle east, who connect israelis and palestinians in a fight for the environment, and breaking the silence, who are israeli veterans who explain the wrongs of the occupations to israeli society.
so i will put all my energy and determination, as i have been doing since the beginning of my mandate, into trying to, as i said, restart the engine of this process and avoid the vacuum that we have been facing now for more than one year.
a number of these measures have already been activated, including the signing of an early-warning mechanism in the area of energy supply, the launch of negotiations on a mobility partnership, and promoting approximation by belarus to the bologna education principles.
we have heard from the high representative about the setting-up of the interinstitutional task force and i would like to ask her about the parliament’s role in that task force in helping bring forward a new era of cooperation ranging from energy to education to the environment, as she outlines.
this agreement gives us hope for long-term sustainable peace in the middle east.
it is not sustainable, and it certainly is not fair.
we need to do more – if we are going do anything at all – to tackle the source of those problems and start talking about the business interests and the lobbying companies that push the products and create the environmental factors that create the illnesses and the problems for the eu.
in a world where desperate people are migrating in vast numbers, the environment is perfect for people-traffickers to thrive.
there are serious allegations of torture and a climate of police repression.
in my view, the eu should focus on job creation as an objective; working to foster a more supportive and therefore more beneficial, environment to assist with the achievement of this goal.
areas which are promising, as pointed out in the report, include the core targets of cohesion investments 2014-2020, which are: energy efficiency, employment and small and medium—sized enterprises, areas which are of importance to the north west of england.
‒ overall, i supported this report, which points to the core cohesion investments 2014-2020, which include energy efficiency, employment and the promotion of smes.
‒ i welcome this report which underlines that cohesion policy is the main instrument of the european union aimed at reducing the economic, social and territorial disparities across european regions, boosting their competitiveness, tackling climate change and energy dependence, while at the same time contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy goals.
looking forward, the report points to the core targets of cohesion investments 2014-2020: energy efficiency, employment and smes – areas where the potential for creating sustainable jobs is indeed promising.
areas which are promising, as pointed out in the report, include the core targets of cohesion investments 2014-2020, which are: energy efficiency, employment and small and medium-sized enterprises.
it was just another propaganda exercise for the eu and a complete waste of taxpayers’ money.
it was just another propaganda exercise for the eu and a complete waste of taxpayers’ money.
it was just another propaganda exercise for the eu and a complete waste of taxpayers’ money.
this report looks in a detailed way at how we move forward to achieve a more efficient, environmental and extensive public transport system across the eu, that not only meets the needs of citizens but those of businesses as well.
‒ stresses that the 2030 reduction target for ghg emissions from transport should be set at a level that will allow the achievement of the long-term target of the white paper of an at least 60% reduction of ghg emissions from transport by 2050; calls in this context on the commission to propose a comprehensive strategy for the decarbonisation of transport.
‒ this report looks in detail at the way forward to achieve a more efficient, environmental and extensive public transport system across the eu, for citizens as well as for businesses.
demands for more intelligent and faster mobile technology, the demand for communications technology 24/7, the need for faster travel and the increasing demand for energy all means that we need more men and women to study science at school and university and become scientists.
mr president, the commission’s proposal for refugee quotas is not sustainable on either moral or practical grounds.
such grassroots work strengthens democratic institutions and promotes human rights and the rule of law on both sides, and is crucial to active sustainable peace-making.
the eu must tackle significant challenges in the short term, including economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation.
‒ the eu must tackle significant challenges in the short term, including economic and financial sustainability, social well—being and especially job creation.
‒ the eu must tackle significant challenges in the short term, including economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation.
‒ the eu must tackle significant challenges in the short term, including economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as the eu must tackle significant challenges in the short term, including economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation.
‒ the eu must tackle significant challenges in the short term, including economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation.
i believe that the social economy enterprises must play a key role in achieving these objectives offering innovative solutions to boost social cohesion and inclusion and job creation offering a sustainable and hopeful future for some of the poorest communities.
‒ i voted for this report and note the commission’s use of the term ‘gold-plating’, which refers to obligations that go beyond eu requirements, that is, an excess of norms, guidelines and procedures accumulated at national, regional and local levels interfering with the expected policy goals; calls on the commission to clearly define the term; stresses that such a definition must make it clear that member states have the right to set stricter standards where necessary, while taking into account the fact that better harmonisation in the implementation of eu environmental law is important for the functioning of the internal market.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, both speakers have made a link between the previous debate on migration and the debate on the sustainable development goals.
what i would like to see come out of new york is a commitment to finish the job that we started when we agreed the millennium development goals: to put poverty eradication at the heart of our development policy and an agreement which recognises that ‘business as usual’ on the environment and climate change is simply not enough to guarantee a future with sustainable economic growth.
firstly, how we make it relate to our development policy and our external action and, secondly, how it relates to our other environment and climate change objectives.
as things stand today, the emissions cut pledges on the table do not add up to the 2°c target.
i know from having been in africa that people in the poorest countries are already living with climate change, and it is they who will pay the price if we do not act.
so we have to get a proper commitment on the actual pledges on climate change.
madam president, tackling poverty and tackling climate change are of course two sides of the same coin.
the un’s sustainable development agenda cannot be considered in isolation from the wider conversation on cop 21. an essential component in tackling both the eradication of poverty and climate change is financing.
i am hugely encouraged by the words of the first vice-president today when he says that private finance can, and must, play a significant role in the financing of both development and climate.
we all have a role to play in both tackling climate change and tackling poverty.
madam president, as this parliament’s rapporteur on corporate responsibility, i would like to welcome sdg 12 and, in particular, target 12.6 on sustainability reporting, and ask commissioner timmermans to defend and promote this text.
bloomberg found that three in four companies do no sustainability reporting.
despite repeated tweaking – back—loading and the market stability reserve – along with other green measures it has forced up energy prices, undermined competitiveness and driven energy—intensive industries out of the eu altogether.
often these go to jurisdictions with lower environmental standards, and that arguably drives up emissions.
we have a policy that undermines our economy, costs jobs and closes plants, and yet which may add to atmospheric co2.
we have been obliged to offer derogations to energy—intensive industries to mitigate the effects of carbon leakage, but this negates a large part of the ets system and leaves small and medium-sized businesses carrying the burden.
mr president, i hope you will forgive me for focusing upon only one part of the summer package, the emissions trading scheme.
mr president, the commission’s summer energy package contains some sensible suggestions that will help the internal market for energy.
i also welcome the commission’s decision to revert back to the a to g system for energy efficiency labelling.
this system is well recognised by consumers and saves them energy and money.
it is, though, important that the eu be consistent in its approach to energy efficiency.
the recent european court of justice ruling against the united kingdom’s preferential tax rate for energy-efficient materials runs counter to the commission’s drive to reduce emissions.
member states should be free to impose lower taxes on energy-efficient products, so i would urge the commissioner to amend the vat directive to allow this to continue.
mr president, within parliament, the s&d group has a position paper defining our priorities on the energy union, which are now becoming legislation with the summer package.
first, the energy union needs to facilitate the transition to a sustainable decarbonised economy, based on energy efficiency, renewable energy and smart infrastructure.
the energy union will need to ensure security of supply, enhance the creation of high—quality jobs and develop new export markets through further investment in research and innovation.
finally, we want the energy union to guarantee secure, stable and affordable energy for european industries and citizens, with a particular emphasis on job creation and – an issue close to my heart – tackling energy poverty among our most vulnerable citizens.
in europe, recent studies showed that only 12% of the most vulnerable consumers are put on the lowest energy tariffs.
in its communication on the summer package entitled ‘delivering a new deal for energy consumers’, the commission highlights the need for targeted, effective assistance, reflecting best practices in the energy field, as well as for eu-wide data collection and monitoring of energy poverty.
mr president, agricultural commodity prices always track global energy prices.
the idea that somehow bypassing the top layer of government will see less waste of our money is a naive idea, to say the least.
it is clear, therefore, that local authorities have a crucial role to play in sustainable development, centred on citizen participation and grassroots engagement.
improving gender balance in local government is a crucial aspect of women’s empowerment and will make for more holistic, inclusive and sustainable development.
at the planned summit on uk steel, government, industry and all stakeholders must come together and find a sustainable, viable future for this vital sector, rather than issuing meaningless platitudes.
we are not hearing much about what is happening to establish peace on the ground, and to actually deal with some of the other underlying issues – questions about democracy and questions about how we are tackling climate change in the region, which is certainly a contributory factor to the instability.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is vital we follow up on recently agreed un sustainable development goals with decisive action, by empowering local authorities in developing countries to ensure accountability and transparency, and providing the basic social services and infrastructure needed to ensure a decent life for all must play a role in this agenda.
‒ along with my colleagues in the socialist & democrats group i voted in favour of this report as the recently agreed un sustainable development goals offer an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice.
‒ the recently agreed un sustainable development goals offer a new framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice around the world.
the recently agreed un sustainable development goals offer an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice.
‒ i voted for this resolution which among other things ‘applauds the mobilisation and commitment of african cities in the preparations for the habitat iii united nations conference on housing and sustainable urban development; calls on the commission to support these mobilisation processes and to factor support for the management of a sustainable urbanisation process into its partnership plans’.
‒ the recently agreed un sustainable development goals offer an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice.
‒ the sustainability development goals recently agreed by the un give us an important framework in the fight against inequality, miscarriages of justice and extreme poverty.
‒ the recently agreed un sustainable development goals offer an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice.
‒ the recently agreed un sustainable development goals are a challenge that we must all strive to meet.
‒ the recently agreed un sustainable development goals (sdgs) offer an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice.
‒ the recently agreed un sustainable development goals offer an important framework in the fight against extreme poverty, inequality and injustice.
we have known for many years that the emissions test and fuel efficiency claims do not represent real-world experience.
it was wrong to do so, and it should rightly face appropriate and proportionate penalties, but we must understand the regulatory environment in which this scandal has emerged.
the truth is that legislators were consumed by climate hysteria and carbon phobia and as a result we pushed car owners and the auto industry towards diesel, which was seen as a lower emissions fuel.
in fact its co2 emissions are only marginally below those of petrol, and, in any case, co2 is not a pollutant.
but as we are now realising, diesel’s other emissions – sox and nox and particulates – are highly toxic, and our dash for diesel has done more harm than good.
volkswagen was trying to follow the pressure by moving to diesel power but found that it was unable at the same time to meet emissions targets, so it decided to cheat.
i see a parallel here with our ill-judged rush to promote biofuels before we understood the issue of energy inputs to agriculture and the impact of indirect land-use change.
madam president, this is obviously a very complex issue but i want to talk about it very simply from my perspective as the rapporteur for the report on national emissions ceilings, the vote on which will be at the next session of plenary in a couple of weeks’ time.
indeed, we have highlighted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) our dissatisfaction with real-driving emissions, with the type approval as it currently stands, and we have put into our report that we expect the commission to come up with new proposals on type approval that actually work in real life, immediately.
many chose diesel models specifically for their lower emissions and for their fuel efficiency.
mr president, we now know that up to half of the savings that we have seen – apparent savings that we have seen – in emissions from cars have come from faulty testing, which means of course in effect that half the saving has not actually existed.
would you not accept that industry needs to be taken into account, and that we must make sure that whatever measures come forth from this place are at least industry-friendly so that industry continues to be a source of wealth as well as pollution?
we opposed the eco-design directive and the industrial emissions directive, so we will categorically oppose a directive covering all medium combustion plants.
current eu policy frameworks have failed to deliver legal certainty to investors, and few can afford to invest in this environment.
madam president, so here we are: a new directive to combat air pollution.
i am from an area of the west midlands of england called the black country and the reason it was called that was because during more industrial times the air was black with smog and many people in my area died from air pollution, so i understand entirely the requirement for cleaner air.
our group has always stressed that the only solution in syria, the only way in which we can create a safe environment for people to return to, is a political solution.
‒ we voted against the provision of parliament’s consent to this protocol because, on a broader point, we do not support the use of member-state taxpayers’ money, through the european neighbourhood policy, being used to support an eu foreign policy in the region and we are against the waste of british taxpayers’ money through projects administered by the eu overseas.
‒ we voted against the provision of parliament’s consent to this protocol because, on a broader point, we do not support the use of member-state taxpayers’ money, through the european neighbourhood policy, being used to support an eu foreign policy in the region, and we are against the waste of british taxpayers’ money through projects administered by the eu overseas.
‒ i voted against the provision of parliament’s consent to this protocol because, on a broader point, ukip does not support the use of member-state taxpayers’ money, through the european neighbourhood policy, being used to support an eu foreign policy in the region and we are against the waste of british taxpayers’ money through projects administered by the eu overseas.
‒ we voted against the provision of parliament’s consent to this protocol because, on a broader point, we do not support the use of member-state taxpayers’ money, through the european neighbourhood policy, being used to support an eu foreign policy in the region, and we are against the waste of british taxpayers’ money through projects administered by the eu overseas.
– we voted against the provision of parliament’s consent to this protocol because, on a broader point, we do not support the use of member-state taxpayers’ money, through the european neighbourhood policy, being used to support an eu foreign policy in the region, and we are against the waste of british taxpayers’ money through projects administered by the eu overseas.
‒ we voted against the provision of parliament’s consent to this protocol because, on a broader point, we do not support the use of member-state taxpayers’ money, through the european neighbourhood policy, being used to support an eu foreign policy in the region, and we are against the waste of british taxpayers’ money through projects administered by the eu overseas.
the implementation of the expected reforms, combined with existing assets such as its human resources and open economy, will unleash this potential, thereby boosting its economy in a more sustainable and inclusive manner.
mr president, i voted in favour of the grzyb report, given that it is key to the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu.
recent research shows that the death toll from air pollution in the uk is much higher than the 30 000 deaths previously estimated.
in the whole of europe, 500 000 people die prematurely as a result of air pollution every year.
mr president, i voted against this and will vote against every single piece of environmental and energy legislation coming out of the european union, because it kills jobs.
‒ today ukip voted against the grzyb report on limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air.
‒ today ukip voted against the grzyb report on limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air.
‒ today ukip voted against the grzyb report on limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air.
‒ today ukip voted against the grzyb report on limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air.
– today ukip voted against the grzyb report on limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it forms a key element of the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu.
‒ today ukip voted against the grzyb report on limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air.
‒ i supported the report, as it is a key element of the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu.
firstly, according to the commission impact assessment, air pollution is estimated to lead to more than 400,000 premature deaths per year and health costs of up to €940 billion.
it also contributes to significant environmental degradation, with 62% of the eu area exposed to eutrophication and economic damage such as €15 billion from lost workdays, €4bn in healthcare costs, €3bn in crop yield loss and €1bn in damage to buildings.
secondly, reducing emissions from medium combustion plants can contribute to achieving the eu climate and energy targets, in reducing greenhouse gases, improving energy efficiency and promoting renewables.
for example, air pollution alone costs china 12-13% of gdp every year.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it forms a key element of the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu.
i voted for this report because poor air quality is a serious threat to health and to the environment.
we need to move towards a credible eu climate policy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it forms a key element of the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it forms a key element of the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu.
the report will improve environmental standards and although it will increase costs in certain areas the benefits far outweigh these.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it forms a key element of the eu’s clean air package and will reduce harmful emissions and improve air quality across the uk and the eu.
‒ following the successful vote on this report in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, it is with great pleasure that i can follow up the work of giovanni la via with another vote of approval in the plenary.
there are a number of amendments that require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour laws and environmental laws, and require the commission to have more empowerment to enforce certain articles.
contracting authorities shall be required to take steps to ensure that, when executing contracts, operators comply with the environmental, social and labour law obligations established by the eu or national legislation, collective agreements or the international environmental, social and labour conventions.
i support the principle of tightening up on financial rules to limit waste, mismanagement and fraud, and i commend the changes in that respect.
there are a number of amendments that require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour laws and environmental laws and require the commission to have more empowerment to enforce certain articles.
there are a number of amendments that require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour laws and environmental laws, and require the commission to have more empowerment to enforce certain articles.
there are a number of amendments that require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour laws, environmental laws and require the commission to have more empowerment to enforce certain articles.
‒ when, all across the european union, governments and individuals are having to cut back budgets, implement difficult measures and save money, does the rapporteur agree that the continuation of financing a separate parliament in strasbourg is a complete waste of taxpayers’ money?
there are a number of amendments that require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour laws and environmental laws and require the commission to have more empowerment to enforce certain articles.
important elements included in this report include: principles of sustainability, alongside value for money; re-emphasis of environmental, social and labour law obligations established by union or national legislation; implementation of recommendations by the court of auditors including more stringent measures to ensure greater added value and contribution towards policy objectives; and re-emphasis of exclusion criteria alongside protection for whistleblowers.
there are a number of amendments that require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour laws and environmental laws and require the commission to have more empowerment to enforce certain articles.
however, there are a number of amendments which would require contractors to adhere to eu policies relating to labour and environmental laws and would require the commission to have more power to enforce certain articles.
‒ this report shores up the importance of attaining value for money for the european taxpayer, while also highlighting the important roles of environmental, social and labour law obligations established by the union and often enshrined in national legislation.
(applause from the efdd group)
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, i would like to thank commissioner katainen for coming to present the capital markets union (cmu) action plan today, a plan which sets out the ambition to free up capital flows across the eu, and a plan which encourages eu savers to become investors so that they can derive a sustainable income in their old age.
mr president, energy security is a major challenge for europe.
in this context, i would like to stress that solutions to energy security include deepening market integration, strengthening our efforts on energy efficiency and promoting the development of renewables.
first, mr arias cañete, the commission must ensure that the project complies with eu laws on energy markets.
it is in our interests to find a comprehensive solution for energy security which will benefit all member states.
finally, we have got to see this discussion in the context of the wider work on the sustainable development goals signed up to two weeks ago in new york.
so it is essential that we keep this is a central point of our strategies in developing countries, particularly this year as we come forward with the sustainable development goals.
our focus was to engage in trilogues to ensure that sustainable economic growth and growth-friendly fiscal measures were the core aims.
we oppose the creation of further eu regulation in this field and we oppose the introduction of an eu environmental inspections law.
we oppose the creation of further eu regulation in this field and we oppose the introduction of an eu environmental inspections law.
we oppose the creation of further eu regulation in this field and we oppose the introduction of an eu environmental inspections law.
we oppose the creation of further eu regulation in this field and we oppose the introduction of an eu environmental inspections law.
‒ i supported the resolution, the member states and the commission must step up efforts to improve and ensure the proper implementation of all eu legislation governing the extractive waste industry to avoid a repeat of such an environmental and human disaster.
‒ the commission and member states must step up their efforts to improve, and ensure the correct implementation of, all legislation from the eu governing the extractive waste industry in order to avoid a repeat of such a human and environmental disaster.
i urge the commission to put more emphasis on research and development in the prevention and treatment of hazardous waste, and to produce guidelines for carrying out stress tests on existing mines with large tailings ponds, in the hope of preventing any further industrial disasters of this nature.
the green climate fund is absolutely core and we support that.
we recognise that the intended nationally determined contributions (indcs) are falling short of the two-degree target and that more climate diplomacy is required to scale them up.
we recognise that the emissions trading scheme must be part of a global endeavour, not solely an isolated continental movement.
the long-term evidence is of oscillations to patterns lasting thousands of years, and the pursuit of this chimera is costing jobs and investment – but only in the uk and the eu, as the climate change theories export them to china and other developing countries.
madam president, the paris meeting will be vital in establishing the way forward for the world’s climate.
my group cannot support calls for binding targets on energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reductions beyond those already agreed.
another un climate conference: as ever, high hopes disappointed, commitments below expectation, delivery below commitments.
we should remember that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about climate theory.
it is not clear that the rise in atmospheric co2 is anthropogenic or that atmospheric co2 has anything like the effects postulated by the ipcc.
nor is it clear that the climate policies we are pursuing will have any material effect on levels of atmospheric co2, or indeed on the climate, but it is absolutely clear that we are utterly unable to predict future changes.
all the predictions so far have been falsified by the data, and it is clear that our climate policies will do far more economic damage than anything that could be conceived as a result of climate change.
it is time to question our hysterical obsession with the new religion of climate alarmism.
madam president, december’s climate talks in paris are an opportunity for us to make a positive impact on the future lives of millions of people in the eu and billions across the world.
it is vital that we secure a comprehensive global and binding agreement, based on the ipcc’s two-degree target, providing a clear plan to tackle dangerous climate change.
by creating decent jobs, inspiring people to innovate and transform their own workplaces and communities, whilst ensuring social security in times of change, we guarantee the public trust and support needed to tackle dangerous climate change.
legislation created from this place... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, just two weeks ago in new york, world leaders signed up to 17 global goals for sustainable development to end poverty, combat inequality and tackle climate change.
the goals are ambitious and set a strong foundation for a sustainable future.
without a binding global agreement in paris and concrete financial commitments, the sustainable development goals have little chance of becoming a reality.
the poorest are already paying the price of climate change in many developing countries and, as charles goerens has said, we must help them pay for adaptation.
therefore, i welcome the words in our resolution on climate finance.
i am glad that the commissioner has not been consulting the same oracle birds the swallows, the swans or whatever other mystical bird ukip has been consulting when it comes to climate change, and that he intends to follow an ambitious programme here, because that leadership role is absolutely crucial.
but we do have a risk of undermining that role if we do not take into account the principles that were agreed just a few weeks ago in new york in discussing the sustainable development goals.
that means that the principles of a just transition, which apply of course to those sectors that will be affected most by a transition to a low-carbon economy, apply also to developing countries, and we have to put that principle right at the heart of things.
some good text was removed in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and i regret that, but there is a chance now to vote to put that text back in.
i welcome the call for the commission to present a sustainable long-term plan for the crisis and particularly welcome and support the focus on search and rescue operations.
the eu accounts for just 12% of global co2 emissions; the uk for just 2%.
‒ ukip voted against the pargneaux report: ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’.
the uk represents only 2% of global emissions; the eu only 12%.
whatever we do, global emissions will rise.
ukip believes that it is time to question the eu’s hysterical obsession with the new belief of climate alarmism.
‒ ukip voted against the pargneaux report: ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’.
the uk represents only 2% of global emissions; the eu only 12%.
whatever we do, global emissions will rise.
ukip believes that it is time to question the eu’s hysterical obsession with the new belief of climate alarmism.
– ukip voted against the pargneaux report: ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’.
the uk represents only 2% of global emissions; the eu only 12%.
whatever we do, global emissions will rise.
ukip believes that it is time to question the eu’s hysterical obsession with the new belief of climate alarmism.
‒ i, along with my colleagues in the socialist and democrats group, voted in favour of this report as climate change is one of the most serious challenges of our time both for the environment and the economy.
climate change is international in nature and calls for an urgent, global response.
– i voted against the pargneaux report: ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’.
the uk represents only 2% of global emissions; the eu only 12%.
whatever we do, global emissions will rise.
ukip believes that it is time to question the eu’s hysterical obsession with the new belief of climate alarmism.
climate change is one of the most serious challenges of our time both for the environment and the economy.
regrettably, the conservative meps’ attempts to water down energy efficiency targets show they are not serious on tackling global environmental issues.
‒ ukip voted against the pargneaux report: ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’.
the uk represents only 2% of global emissions; the eu only 12%.
whatever we do, global emissions will rise.
ukip believes that it is time to question the eu’s hysterical obsession with the new belief of climate alarmism.
‒ ukip voted against the pargneaux report: ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’.
the uk represents only 2% of global emissions; the eu only 12%.
whatever we do, global emissions will rise.
ukip believes that it is time to question the eu’s hysterical obsession with the new belief of climate alarmism.
‒ climate change represents an immediate and direct threat to the world that we live in.
if action is not taken irreversible climate change will cease to be a theme of dystopian fiction but a part of our lives, potentially permanently.
the unanimity of scientists on this issue is unprecedented, climate change is happening, and we are already on the brink.
this is just a waste of time.
‒ i welcomed this move, as it highlights the need for a european tourism sector that is sustainable, responsible and accessible across europe.
labour will continue to work with consumer groups, safety organisations and industry representatives to prevent rare but devastating cases where inadequate health and safety rules have led to tragedies, including deaths from carbon monoxide poisoning.
the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states.
the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states.
the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states.
the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states.
the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states.
the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states.
the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states.
the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states.
the purpose of this project is to set up embedded computer systems across different areas of application with the intention to strengthen eu competitiveness and sustainability across member states.
i support the call for universal health coverage, which is achievable as part of the new sustainable development goals adopted by world leaders in new york in september.
labour meps are fully behind the call for universal health coverage, which is achievable as part of the new sustainable development goals adopted by world leaders in new york in september.
labour meps are fully behind the call for universal health coverage, which is achievable as part of the new sustainable development goals adopted by world leaders in new york in september.
i and other labour meps are fully behind the call for universal health coverage, which is achievable as part of the new sustainable development goals adopted by world leaders in new york in september.
labour meps are fully behind the call for universal health coverage, which is achievable as part of the new sustainable development goals adopted by world leaders in new york in september.
we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
they then decided that sox and nox was going to kill us all, so made those car companies that were now selling shed loads of diesels to reduce the emissions that diesels emit.
that is why i call for the introduction of a real driving emissions test to be implemented by 2017 for all vehicles to ensure that new cars on eu roads finally meet the euro 6 limits and the establishment of an independent eu type approval authority that would oversee testing.
‒ the ecr is deeply concerned about practices by automotive manufacturers which have deliberately set out to cheat emissions standards.
this is to the detriment of consumers and the environment, and unfairly damages the reputation of the workers and suppliers linked to those companies.
i am proud to have campaigned successfully for the eu non-financial reporting directive – which requires companies to report and thus act on their environmental and other societal impacts.
i am quite happy to say that i used volkswagen who are members of a forum called ‘econsense’, which is the environmental interest group within the german employers group, to lobby internally to help win german support for the eu directive.
we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
i did not vote against because i think it is acceptable for car manufacturers to effectively perpetrate fraud not only with regard to those who buy their products thinking they are doing something to reduce harmful emissions, but to society as a whole, which bears the costs of those emissions.
we don't solve one pollution problem by fuelling another.
‒ i voted for this resolution, which ‘strongly condemns any fraud by automobile manufacturers and urges companies to take full responsibility for their actions and to cooperate fully with the authorities in any investigations; deplores the fact that millions of consumers have been deceived and misled by false information regarding emissions from their vehicles’.
we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
we do not want new eu regulation in this field and we fear that the unelected eu commission will want to reform eu emissions testing with a new regulatory framework whilst strengthening the implementation and enforcement of existing eu law.
this report suggested that diesel cars have lower carbon dioxide emissions per kilometre than equivalent petrol powered vehicles.
i am technology neutral when it comes to emissions reductions and i believe that this sends the wrong signal in light of current uncertainties surrounding vehicle emission tests.
it is important that the resolution addresses the introduction of the real driving emission (rde) testing procedure, which would reflect real-world emissions and allow authorities to detect the use of defeat devices.
‒ the recent scandals over potential false readings of carbon emissions in certain vehicles have highlighted the importance of continued vigilance in this sphere.
the threat that carbon emissions oppose to our way of society by inducing large scale climate change is a problem we must face up to very quickly.
i was therefore perturbed to see that member states have recently agreed to allow the further pumping of nitrous oxide from diesel cars at double the euro 6 levels agreed in 2007. therefore i backed this motion and hope that the commission and the member states can work with us in the parliament to get real on automotive emissions of all kinds instead of making a faustian pact that could compromise all of our futures.
rather, it is focusing on countries like yours, in situations like yours, so that cohesion achieves sustainable economic growth and lifts people out of that situation for the benefit of everybody within the eu – on a limited basis, not forever.
we do not accept that the purpose of article 23 is to achieve a more sustainable and efficient cohesion policy: it is about imposing antisocial diktats to strengthen and deepen a failing monetary union.
the eu wants to use the europe 2020 programme to create jobs, innovation, combat climate change, encourage sustainable energy and fight poverty.
in particular, we think that each member state should have the right to ban a product if its representatives believe that the product could be a danger to human and animal health or to the environment.
on the other hand, some gmos can encourage farmers to use even more chemicals that cause considerable damage to biodiversity, the environment and, especially, cause climate change.
the wording on the test methods for nanomaterials has been strengthened, while taking into account environmental and consumer protection.
on the environment, this regulation should take into account a high level of protection and improvement in the quality of the environment.
the reason why is obvious, but let me spell it out: air pollution is the number one environmental cause of death in the eu.
air pollution also hits the natural environment through eutrophication and acid deposition.
the central plank of the proposal is the setting of emissions reductions targets in all member states for 2030, for six pollutants.
air pollution does not stop at member state borders.
that means not supporting the environment committee’s position on lower ceilings across all pollutants, and supporting amendments on ammonia.
it rejects the commission’s proposed flexibility for shipping, has added mandatory targets for 2025 on all pollutants, offers vastly improved access to justice for citizens affected by poor air quality, as well as improvements on national air pollution control programs and reporting.
that is why we are here today, supporting strong, binding and – crucially – linear targets to reduce the harmful emittents; legal tools to hold governments that do not comply to account; extra powers for local authorities; additional standards on vehicle testing; and – here is the vital point – a principle that every contributing sector must play its part in reducing harmful emissions.
when we think about air pollution, we think of the short-term episodes in big cities like paris and london.
air pollution across europe kills 10 times more people than all road traffic accidents.
ninety percent of all europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health.
governments must step up their efforts to comply with better air pollution measures, and the 2025 targets mean member states can start planning now.
so it is important that every part of our economies take action to share the load to make the air cleaner and safer in europe by 2030. ammonia emissions must be addressed.
delaying action on this simply causes more pollution.
we also need the quick introduction of emissions tests under real driving conditions across the whole of europe.
in december we have the un climate conference in paris.
the focus of spending should be on tackling the major challenges we are faced with today: creating jobs and growth, supporting sustainable development and innovation, and managing the refugee crisis in a responsible and humane way.
i believe that, in the current economic climate, breaking the mff budget is not fiscally responsible.
i do not believe that such action can be objectively justified in the current economic climate.
they concern the environmental protection of red coral, and tackling incidental catches of seabirds, sharks and seals.
remotely operated underwater vehicles (rovs) will be prohibited from harvesting red coral, environmental protection will be stepped up for certain species, and member states will be at liberty to grant derogations for fishermen.
measures include provisions for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, the protection of sharks and rays, as well as the extension of some technical measures to the black sea and management measures for fisheries exploiting small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
this represents a great move towards a sustainable fisheries policy in the european union.
‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
– today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
– today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
‒ air pollution causes 50 000 premature deaths across the uk and 700 000 across the eu in total every year.
that is why i voted to set ambitious measures to cut toxic emissions that contribute to air pollution.
proper results can only be achieved if the agriculture sector plays its part, just as the car industry, following the emissions test scandal.
thousands of deaths are attributable to ammonia from farms, and the setting of limits on agricultural emissions is both necessary and fair.
the new directive on national emissions reduction commitments will reduce harmful emissions and lessen the health and environmental impact on our population.
it is estimated that around 400 000 people a year die prematurely across the eu from air pollution.
policymakers have been concentrating on climate change to the detriment of air quality for the past decade, and it is clear there is a need for more cohesive and streamlined policymaking, with binding targets for 2025, improved reporting, and provisions on driving emissions and on access to funding to help people adapt to the new measures.
‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
more than a third of the uk’s air pollution is blown over the channel.
– today my fellow meps and i voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health.
‒ this report concerns the directive used to tackle cross-border pollution.
i supported the raising of these ceilings to more appropriate levels and the call for binding targets for 2025. committing to binding targets is the only way we will effectively reduce pollution, and this is crucially important, as we see that 90% of people living in cities in europe are now exposed to levels of pollutants classified as damaging to human health.
around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health.
‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
‒ today ukip voted against the creation of a new eu legislative framework on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
we are particularly concerned that the proposal to include methane in this directive would duplicate international and domestic climate-change legislation, creating an additional regulatory burden for industry and government, without any corresponding benefit for the environment.
‒ amending directive 2003/35/ec could be an important step towards reducing national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
however, that should not detract from the fact that, while overall the progress in tackling air pollution has been good, there is still a lot of work to be done to ensure that air quality in europe improves.
this is crucial, as our levels of air pollution are central to our long-term ecological wellbeing, and low levels of air pollution are also vital to our day-to-day health.
it provides an overall framework for greater intergovernmental policy coordination and a more effective business environment for companies and investors, and addresses gaps and practical difficulties that currently affect the single market.
on behalf of the efdd group.– mr president, i would be delighted if we could speed things up somewhat in the chamber, having been here until nearly midnight last night – not fun, and quite frankly a waste of everybody’s time, not to mention our taxpayers’ money.
madam president, i dare say my colleague would feel warmer had this place not passed such ridiculous energy legislation that puts bills up.
i wanted to say that parliament has long stressed the need for the economic and social dimension of the semester to carry equal weight, and of course i agree totally with my colleague sven giegold on the environmental dimension there.
the eu writes legislation which pushes up the price of energy and sets renewable targets which do not provide a secure future for any sort of industry, let alone heavy industry.
still, there are other ways in which the eu can and should help: it should swiftly grant state aid approval so the industry can receive compensation for high energy prices – especially given the tories are hiding behind the commission rather than securing retrospective eu approval later.
i also very much welcome the linking with the new sustainable development goals (sdgs), because i think that gives us some new sets of dimensions, not least a more global one.
the sdg on sustainable consumption and production, which links to the proposals coming up on the circular economy, will be important in terms of how this fits with sustainability within the european union and really develops the ideas on new skills for new jobs, issues around just transition, and indeed the investment that others have spoken of.
the obsessive green agenda has led to increased energy prices.
also important is the inclusion of climate change and the urgent need to act on this, particularly for coastal, island, and mountainous areas.
they died from carbon monoxide poisoning from a faulty boiler in their room.
a simple carbon monoxide device, like the one i have here, could have saved their lives.
that was when i was on the committee on industry, research and energy (itre).
there is always some improper spending, there is always some waste – not because they are european but because they are quangos.
we need to take a carrot—not—stick approach to improving emissions.
finally, i would say that obsessing over the single measure of co2 within the environment is something which we have done time and time again, and when we obsess about that one measure and forget – in the case of diesel, for example – the nox and sox emissions, we end up with a lopsided environmental policy when we need balance.
‒ i voted in favour of the rosati report which, thanks to our group’s efforts, opens the door for a change in direction in european economic policy: more investment and less austerity, recognition of the real consequence of frontloaded austerity measures, surplus countries to do more efforts in pushing demand, labour market reforms to be sustainable.
the s&d group has fought hard to include more social criteria and to ensure any recommendations to labour market reform do not weaken workers’ rights or promote precarious employment but in fact strengthen the european social model and promote sustainable growth.
‒ the european semester is a powerful tool for making european policy more effective, but it must include strong social and sustainability pillars, and prioritise social inclusion.
social impact assessments must be carried out, and csrs must aim to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ i welcome this report, which highlights the need for a european tourism sector that is sustainable, responsible and accessible.
labour will continue to work with consumer groups, safety organisations and industry representatives to prevent rare but devastating cases where inadequate health and safety rules have led to tragedies, including deaths from carbon monoxide poisoning.
‒ i strongly supported the report, which includes labour amendments calling for urgent action to address carbon monoxide safety across europe in tourism settings, as it calls on the european commission to come forward with proposals for minimum standards for tourism safety in the european union, particularly on fire safety and carbon monoxide safety in holiday accommodation.
‒ i support the recommendations in this report for updating rules for a sustainable, accessible and responsible tourism sector, which is vital for the eu economy and for the well—being of european citizens.
in particular, i welcome the calls for increasing minimum safety standards such as those on carbon monoxide detection.
‒ i very much welcome this report, highlighting the need for a tourism sector in europe which is not only sustainable, but also accessible and responsible.
labour will continue to work with consumer groups, safety organisations and industry representatives to prevent rare, but devastating, cases where inadequate health and safety rules have led to tragedies including deaths from carbon monoxide poisoning.
increasing the incomes of the least well-off people across europe is one of the most effective and sustainable ways of promoting growth.
would it not be better if these countries handed the money over themselves, or set up their own camps in syria, rather than the european union taking the money, which it will no doubt waste in the usual way it does?
also, this open-door immigration policy provides the perfect environment for traffickers to exploit and abuse women and children.
well that would upset the eu because of the environmental rules about burying dead animals.
are they being rendered down with abattoir waste to be spread as meat and bonemeal fertilizer, or are they actually being put into animal rations as a protein element?
for many people this brings the added dread of extra energy costs.
energy efficiency and renewables are a key means of ensuring that energy poverty is reduced long term.
emissions abatement is also something we must look at, and into that we have to consider ccs – carbon capture and storage – and, indeed, carbon capture and usage.
i am very struck just now that we must make sure our energy mix works and delivers.
we must again, however, be looking at how to create a level playing field for all our sources of energy, and that will mean, i believe, looking at fossil fuel subsidies as well.
we have forced up prices, undermined competitiveness and driven energy—intensive businesses out of europe altogether, taking their jobs and their investment with them.
blue-card question.– i notice that you are complaining about high energy prices and you said that was due to a fragmented europe, and you rail against subsidies to coal.
well, surely one of the main reasons for high energy prices is vast subsidies to renewables and not allowing a free market in energy when – certainly in britain – we have massive amounts of coal that could be dug up and used.
surely you reduce prices by giving the market more free rein, rather than following theories about global warming?
mr president, if properly implemented, the energy union strategy will benefit all eu member states and citizens, who crucially need to be placed at centre stage, especially the energy-poor.
i welcome the first stage of the energy union report published by the commission last week, as i am particularly worried by the current situation in the uk.
the state of the energy union highlights that the uk is failing to hit a 2013 interim target for renewable energy and is in serious danger of failing to meet the binding 2020 target.
the report also rightly claims that the uk needs to assess whether their policies and tools are sufficient and effective in meeting their renewable energy objectives.
the uk government policy on renewable energy is regressive, and there is a real danger that the uk will end up buying renewable energy from other countries, rather than growing the green jobs that the uk and our young people so desperately need.
the uk government urgently needs to modify its strategy and develop policy measures to promote energy efficiency – the first fuel – and renewables.
this is precisely what the energy union is about: building a new, clean and secure energy system which is affordable to all eu citizens.
mr president, the best way to ensure energy security for the whole of europe and the lowest prices for our citizens is a properly integrated gas and electricity market.
i want consumers and businesses in my constituency to be able to buy their energy from any company in the eu.
continued investment in infrastructure is key to securing sustainable and low-cost energy across the eu.
improving inter-connection also increases energy security.
we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states.
we oppose this proposal as we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal is a solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by industries in europe, and britain in particular.
it is now clear that the eu’s obsessive green energy policy, together with a lack of regulatory coherence, has created great difficulties for all energy industries in europe.
brussels must recognise that its energy policy has failed to deliver legal certainty to investors.
blue-card question.– would you agree with me that professor james lovelock, the great grandfather of all the greens, has reluctantly come round to the idea that we must have nuclear energy as a stopgap before we move onto other things?
– while we have reservations about the eu representing the member states in certain capacities, we supported this report with the view that bluefin fish stocks will be better protected from international iuu fishing with the eu as a full member of ccsbt amongst other members like japan and south korea, who have a poor record when it comes to sustainability and overexploitation of stocks.
the signing of this instrument of international law will allow the eu to become a full member of the ccsbt extended commission, having enjoyed cooperating non-member status since 2006. the european union, in accordance with its commitments under the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982 relating to the conservation and management of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks, has been cooperating very actively with all regional fisheries organisations in a bid to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
with our membership i believe that we will be in a better position to protect this fish population, and that this will have a knock-on effect for conservation elsewhere in the ecosystem.
our efforts are not to destroy the trade but to return it to one of sustainable fishing.
‒ i supported the report, as eu membership in the ccsbt extended commission will promote consistency in the union’s conservation approach across oceans and reinforce its commitment to the long—term conservation and sustainable use of fisheries resources globally.
‒ the european union must remain very active with all regional fisheries organisations in a bid to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
with the membership i believe that we will be in a better position to protect this fish population and this will have a knock-on effect for conservation elsewhere in the ecosystem.
children need to grow up in an environment where they are giving a decent chance in life.
‒ labour meps voted for this report, reflecting our deep commitment to supporting multilateralism in the world, and to back an active european union role in the united nations in pursuit of objectives for conflict resolution, human rights, international development and the fight against climate change.
it points out the major impact that trade and investment can have on the sustainable development of least advanced poor countries and on fighting poverty and combating human rights violations where it is tailored accordingly, carried out with long-term objectives, clearly targeted, framed within clear performance rules, and connected with counterbalancing measures for transition periods, for instance through specific programmes for trade preferences, trade sanctions, regulation of trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture, inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment, and certification systems regulating trade in conflict minerals.
it calls, therefore, for the eu to develop ambitious, efficient and active trade policy measures for promoting the un’s sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the millennium development goals (mdgs); believes, with regard to the conclusion of the doha development round, that the un can use its unique position in the multilateral agenda to ensure that those talks are a success for developing countries.
eu climate policies are at fault here, hurting competitiveness, raising prices and ultimately driving industry out of europe.
i do not believe the carbon border adjustment mechanism proposed by mr martin in his report is the answer.
we are at the point now where we have got top-quality, high—tech clean manufacturing in europe and the uk that is being driven out by excessive regulation, excessive energy costs and by totally uncompetitive dumping from china.
we need to modernise and strengthen our trade defence tools to make them more effective: acting quicker, tackling social and environmental dumping, and opening them up to give the workforce the ability to initiate complaints.
edouard martin’s report offers long-term solutions to this crisis, and if implemented correctly it could put european steel on the path to a sustainable future.
and, as regards energy-intensive industries, some member states want to give more support but they need to have state-aid clearance.
parliament also persuaded the council and the commission to make a commitment to continue the youth employment initiative, which is currently under review, in 2016 and to keep the level of unpaid european bills at a sustainable level.
– i voted in favour of this resolution because article 1 of reach states that the aim of the regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, and that only substances that do not adversely affect human health and the environment are put on the market.
the objection should account for the wider implications of not granting authorisation, which includes the circular economy aims, and the prospect of increased environmental damage.
environmental damage costs of manufacturing virgin pvc have been calculated as eur 394 a tonne, and eur 14 a tonne for recycling pvc waste.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new draft rejecting the applications for authorisation for the formulation of recycled soft pvc containing dehp, given the commission is accountable to the european public for protecting citizens and the environment from hazardous chemicals, while promoting innovation, including in the area of safer chemicals and products to foster a resilient economy.
i am convinced that there may be a real threat to public health and the environment from the use of this dpeh phthalate.
he should explain why our small businesses have to pay taxes that big business doesn't; and why his party which says it is pro-business refuses to back action which creates a fairer business environment for all?
we spend a lot of our time at work, therefore it is imperative that we are allowed to work in a safe environment.
the long-term solution to the refugee crisis can only come in conflict resolution, sustainable development and good governance, which prevents people from wanting to leave their homes in the first place.
the shift of economic power, west to east; the consequence of climate change, of global mass migration; and the rise of fundamentalist islam: these are next-generation issues, for which europe will have to find next-generation solutions.
indeed, much of bangladesh’s considerable development in terms of gender equality, child nutrition and climate change adaptation is a result of civil society working with government.
wto actions should aim to contribute to achieving the recently adopted sustainable development goals instead of solely pushing trade liberalisation.
we should take this symbolic opportunity to revive the wto, and within it recommit ourselves to central principles of fair trade and sustainable development.
it should contemplate new challenges such as climate change and sustainability as well as new actors such as smes and innovative start-ups.
positive aspects of the resolution include calling on the ecuadorian government to combat poverty, protect indigenous tribes, cooperate on specific environmental and deforestation programmes, recognise fair trade, and further principles of democracy and human rights.
despite these positive aspects and attempts by myself to amend certain paragraphs, the text that was eventually adopted included wording that called for the ‘quick and complete entry into force and implementation of the agreement’, thereby negating the call for reflection on aspects of the agreement dealing with labour rights, sustainable development, the environment, etc.
i also support the calls for an action plan on social and environmental rights in line with those already agreed.
‒ i voted for this resolution which draws attention to the eu objective of including a binding trade and sustainable development chapter in all trade agreements concluded with both industrialised and non-industrialised partners.
it supports, in this connection, the inclusion in the trade agreement between the eu and ecuador of a sustainable development chapter reflecting the partners’ common commitment to promoting respect for, compliance with, and full and proper enforcement of international human rights agreements, ilo conventions and key multilateral environmental agreements such as the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites).
we also called for an action plan on social and environmental rights in line with those already agreed.
it is important at this time that we use cohesion funds in the most effective and sustainable way possible, without allowing parts of our union to be left behind.
as our rapporteur said, urban areas account for around a quarter of european carbon emissions from transport and so, commissioner, we urgently need genuinely sustainable mobility for goods and for our economies.
as acknowledged by this report, good public transport has important social and economic benefits, as well as environmental ones, helping people gain access to jobs and get out of poverty.
it is a positive and progressive report that proposes further development of sustainable transport, particularly public transport, to aid urban mobility in the eu.
it discusses the need for, and ways to reduce conventional car use, carbon emissions and air pollution in european cities by promoting public transport.
i also voted against endorsing the ‘polluter pays’ principle in individual car use (sinn féin supports this principle for major polluters but not in the form of consumer taxes, for example the irish carbon tax), and against endorsing road toll booth charges.
despite these small disagreements with elements of the text, the report was overwhelmingly positive and will result in mobility-related and environmental benefits for citizens in ireland and the eu, so i voted in favour.
‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years.
‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years.
‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years.
‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years.
in particular, the report seeks to prescribe how member states should use the revenue gained from road tolls and strays into issues such as the pricing of parking and asking local authorities to include environmental performance requirements as part of all their public procurement procedures.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on sustainable urban mobility which covers the transport issues faced by people across the eu living in different urban communities.
good public transport has important social and economic benefits, as well as environmental ones, helping people gain access to jobs and get out of poverty.
‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years.
‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years.
– the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years.
– the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years.
‒ the uk has been working on projects for sustainable urban mobility for years.
‒ sustainable urban mobility is a priority for both me and the socialists in this chamber.
importantly, and this vote comes at an appropriate time, the ‘sustainability’ dimension to mobility in urban areas will contribute to our fight against climate change.
it will be more difficult working on fisheries than energy, i suspect.
the reality, however, is that the energy union must be the beating heart of the european continent.
– mr duncan, i agree with you on the north sea, so do you agree with me on the key role which binding targets play in ensuring certainty for investors in renewables, energy efficiency and cleantech?
a binding energy efficiency target would create jobs, reduce energy poverty and create benefits for our economy – all with one swift act.
mr president, the commission plans to revise the emissions trading scheme and its allowance system.
we believe that the commission should recognise that the entire eu project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states.
this house has spent too much of its time trying to fix this failing mechanism and its devastating effects on energy prices, the industry of europe and industrial competitiveness in general.
they do not provide energy at affordable prices and they ruin the landscape.
mr president, we need to promote an energy union with clean, secure and affordable energy.
we need to promote an energy union in which citizens and local authorities play a central part and we realise the potential of the north sea.
we need an energy union in which the most vulnerable citizens are not left aside.
energy efficiency is the first fuel.
it is about energy poverty and health.
resistance to high, ambitious and binding targets on energy efficiency is inconsistent and irresponsible.
i am hopeful that parliament will give a progressive vision of the energy union tomorrow.
mr president, achieving agreement in respect of an energy union that acknowledges the importance of tackling the unsustainable use of fossil fuels and increased use of clean, green renewables instead is ever more important.
the real cost of failure in agreeing a progressive, sustainable energy union will be more of the same.
in writing.– this report, rightly, acknowledges that it is for member states to determine their energy mix and that it is a sovereign decision of each member state on how to decarbonise its economy.
there is, however, a role for eu level coordination of policies and technological development, in order to deliver on europe’s and member states’ climate and energy targets.
ensuring a much higher level of interconnectivity between national power systems is essential for ensuring a more flexible, decentralised and sustainable energy sector, and facilitating an increase of renewable energy.
a sensibly prioritised eu energy union will give due priority to supporting the provision of interconnectors, so that scotland’s potential surplus electricity can be sold to the mainland european market, where guaranteeing long-term security of supply is necessary.
while i support the idea of an energy union in principle, there are some aspects of the report that we will vote on tomorrow that i cannot support.
whilst world leaders argued over a climate deal in paris, thousands of people in my constituency were bearing the brunt of global warming.
many are now homeless climate refugees, just before christmas.
we need david cameron and the uk government to act now to provide both immediate help, through accessing the eu solidarity funds, and by investing in long-term environmental solutions.
furthermore it will allow us to increase the political dialogue with grenada and promote our aims and goals in terms of human rights, climate change and whole range of other things.
the visa waiver agreement must be viewed in a wider context as a tool for intensifying cooperation, in which context both parties have a shared interest in stabilising the macro-region and acting as sound and reliable partners in combating terrorism, trafficking in persons and climate change.
‒ i supported this proposal for an amending regulation to lay down a scheme of control and enforcement in the area covered by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northeast atlantic fisheries, which will ensure a better long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of fishery resources in the area of the northeast atlantic, bringing lasting environmental and social results.
such fishing causes considerable environmental and economic loss and has a wider impact on the livelihoods and food security of coastal populations.
the measures provided by this amendment will ensure a better long-term conservation and optimum utilization of fishery resources in the area of the northeast atlantic, bringing lasting results under the environmental and social aspects.
such fishing causes considerable environmental and economic loss and has a wider impact on the livelihoods and food security of coastal populations.
such pirate fishing also causes significant environmental damage, with fishers usually identifying commercially valuable species that have been caught, and discarding the remainder – often as much as 75% of the total catch.
i wish to draw attention to the fact that my vote to support an efdd amendment on nuclear energy was because i oppose eu funding for such activities, and should not be taken in any way as opposition to nuclear power as part of a wider energy basket for those member states which choose to use it.
we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states.
‒ i cannot support this report as it stands, it proposes weakening the role of national governments in their own energy management, for example requiring the commission to participate in all national negotiations with non-eu countries on energy deals.
additionally, the call for binding national targets on renewables and energy efficiency would prevent individual countries from reducing emissions in a way that reflects their own energy needs.
what countries in europe need are fully liberalised energy markets that will bring down the high energy prices that consumers and businesses are having to live with.
we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states.
making better connections in terms of energy supply and innovative storage solutions holds inherent benefits for a higher quality of life and economic prosperity within societies across the member states.
first of all, i would caution against an expansion of energy resources to eastern europe and our external neighbours before proper attention has been given to solidifying our own market.
there are agri-food businesses based in the west of the province that stand to bring growth to the local economy, however are not able to access affordable energy or connect to the grid for electricity or wind power.
– conservatives welcome much of the ambition behind the energy union given the current fragmented nature of energy policy at the eu level.
it must help drive the completion of the internal energy market – without fully liberalised markets our energy supplies will be less secure and more expensive.
conservatives, however, voted against the report as it did not reflect the council’s agreement on the 2030 climate and energy strategy from october 2014 – which agreed on a requirement for a 40% cut in emissions, without binding national renewable and efficiency targets.
furthermore we are concerned at calls within the report for member states to negotiate intergovernmental energy deals jointly and/or mandate the commission to participate in all member state negotiations with third countries on such agreements.
while we have sympathy with countries that are unduly vulnerable to a single supplier over long-term energy contracts, we do not support a one-size-fits-all approach that provides the european commission with a role that is neither needed nor requested by all member states.
‒ i voted against this report as a one-size fits all approach to energy will not work.
i welcome the key objectives of energy security and competitiveness.
however, the eu should seek a flexible approach and allow member states to decide on their own energy mix.
parliament should seek to fully liberalise the energy market and not to bind member states in restrictive targets.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i strongly believe that the energy union, if properly implemented, will ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a secure, stable and affordable energy system.
we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i strongly believe that the energy union, if properly implemented, will ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a secure, stable and affordable energy system.
‒ in my constituency we are, in the words of the east of england energy group, “unique” as we include energy producers across a diverse range including nuclear, gas and renewables.
in my work as a local mep, i have specifically backed a european project to create a north sea grid for trading renewable energy, as well as the project to host a new gas interconnector.
therefore i deeply welcome the proposals in today's vote which will support the building of interconnectors between the uk and nine other eu countries and the creation of a north sea electricity grid which will reduce electricity prices, increase energy security and promote renewable energy.
nuclear power is expensive and dangerous and should have no role in the long term development of eu energy policy.
we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i strongly believe that the energy union, if properly implemented, will ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a secure, stable and affordable energy system.
the energy union must provide eu citizens with secure, sustainable and affordable energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i strongly believe that the energy union, if properly implemented, will ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a secure, stable and affordable energy system.
we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states.
we believe that the eu commission should recognise that the entire eu energy project has failed, causing higher energy prices in all member states.
‒ i voted against this as i do not wish to see the eu write any more legislation than could hinder the uk energy market.
eu energy policy has been a huge failure.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe strongly that the energy union will ensure the transition to a clean and renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a stable, secure and affordable energy system.
‒ as my own constituents in the north-west of england have been hit by the floods of storm desmond, the eu must do all it can to invest in sustainable energy, and in the fight against climate change.
eu energy policy must refocus from centring on fossil fuel to focusing on renewables, energy efficiency and intelligent infrastructure.
there must be urgent action on energy poverty, which the european commission must lead by presenting a communication on energy poverty in europe, accompanied by an action plan to fight against it.
if properly implemented, the energy union – the framework for upcoming legislation on energy – will ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, putting the interests of consumers first and ensuring a secure, stable, affordable energy system.
‒ this report is the parliament's response to the european commission energy union strategy.
i voted in favour of this report as i strongly believe that the energy union, if properly implemented, will ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a secure, stable, affordable energy system.
using a sub-sea cable, energy generated from renewable sources will be transferred between our countries, and it is a blueprint for europe on how renewables can be traded as part of the energy union.
the proposed energy union offers key opportunities for us in the north—east, firstly because we have the manufacturing knowhow needed to deliver from oil and gas industries to renewables, and secondly because we understand the north sea.
but funding new low-carbon technologies such as carbon capture storage is crucial if we want to meet our climate and energy commitments, particularly those taken in paris last week: projects like the teesside collective.
energy union is the opposite.
i particularly welcome that the report stresses explicitly that projects of common interest (pci) must be developed in a more transparent and accountable manner and crucially take into account economic, social and environmental impacts.
we oppose eu climate and energy policy that is one of the most expensive and yet unsuccessful policies the world has ever seen.
we oppose expensive renewables and believe that member states should favour the exploitation of indigenous energy, including fossil fuel.
we oppose eu climate and energy policy that is one of the most expensive and yet unsuccessful policies the world has ever seen.
we oppose expensive renewables and believe that member states should favour the exploitation of indigenous energy, including fossil fuel.
these efforts have the potential to break down barriers to cross-border trade by supporting local businesses to internationalise through swifter, reliable and affordable energy supply.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as we need strong political support and new measures to ensure europe’s electricity network is properly connected in order to avoid member states being isolated, ensure a true internal energy market as part of the energy union and bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as we need strong political support and new measures to ensure europe’s electricity network is properly connected in order to avoid member states being isolated, ensure a true internal energy market as part of the energy union and bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
we oppose eu climate and energy policy that is one of the most expensive and yet unsuccessful policies the world has ever seen.
we oppose expensive renewables and believe that member states should favour the exploitation of indigenous energy, including fossil fuel.
scotland, however, has to operate within an irrational uk energy framework and transmission charges are prohibitively high for scottish producers.
my colleagues and i oppose an eu climate and energy policy that is one of the most expensive and yet unsuccessful policies the world has ever seen.
we oppose expensive renewables and believe that member states should favour the exploitation of indigenous energy, including fossil fuel.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as we need strong political support and new measures to ensure europe’s electricity network is properly connected in order to avoid member states being isolated, ensure a true internal energy market as part of the energy union and bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as we need strong political support and new measures to ensure europe’s electricity network is properly connected in order to avoid member states being isolated, ensure a true internal energy market as part of the energy union and bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
we oppose eu climate and energy policy that is one of the most expensive and yet unsuccessful policies the world has ever seen.
we oppose expensive renewables and believe that member states should favour the exploitation of indigenous energy, including fossil fuel.
we oppose eu climate and energy policy that is one of the most expensive and yet unsuccessful policies the world has ever seen.
we oppose expensive renewables and believe that member states should favour the exploitation of indigenous energy, including fossil fuel.
with eight member states still yet to meet the target of having at least 10% of their electricity generation capacity able to be exported and imported with it neighbouring countries, we need a more integrated energy market.
this report calls for exactly that: a truly integrated internal energy market - as part of the energy union - which would bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the importance of interconnections to the internal energy market, but also rightly recognises that targets for achieving interconnection must be relevant and reflect the specific circumstances of member states.
a linked-up energy system could also bring potential gains in terms of the price of energy.
integration will encourage efficiency by allowing the cross border sharing of best practice and creating a more unified energy grid will encourage supply security by promoting alternative energy sources.
the 2013 reform of the cfp sought among other things to secure maximum sustainable yields (msy), using the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management.
it should seek to improve the conservation and sustainable exploitation of stocks and implement the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management in a way that is consistent with the socio-economic viability of the fisheries sector.
any reform to the cfp should seek to improve the conservation and the sustainable exploitation of stocks and implement the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management in a way that is consistent with the socioeconomic viability of the fisheries sector.
it should seek to improve the conservation and sustainable exploitation of stocks and implement the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management in a way that is consistent with the socioeconomic viability of the fisheries sector.
‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report as it sets out the european parliament’s red lines ahead of a new commission proposal on technical measures relating to the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) which sought among other things to secure maximum sustainable yields (msy), using the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management.
any reform to the cfp should seek to improve the conservation and the sustainable exploitation of stocks and implement the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management in a way that is consistent with the socioeconomic viability of the fisheries sector.
i am the uk conservative spokesperson on energy, so i speak only for the conservatives in this particular debate – i wish not to speak for the rest of my group.
will we need again to revisit any of the eu’s climate and energy package?
we also have to recognise what this might mean for the emissions trading scheme – perhaps not in this first phase 4 revision – but beyond that.
that leaves the eu competitively disadvantaged as the only area with legally enforceable emissions obligations.
we have talked about keeping global warming to 2°c or 2.7°c or 1.5°c.
but the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) itself suggests a very wide range of values for climate sensitivity between 1.5°c and 4.5°c per doubling of co2.
with this huge range of uncertainty, it is simply delusional to pretend that we can set meaningful targets to a tenth of a degree, but the real problems we face will be political not environmental.
the extra climate effect of the strasbourg circus – no, we are not going to change that.
even 250 years is insufficient time for a meaningful assessment of long-term climate patterns, and so-called models are only as good as the data in the programming.
the climate change industry has become a powerful, vested interest, so what will this really mean in swindon, exeter and penzance?
– well, i do not dispute there has been climate change: there has been for thousands of years.
we are not doing renewables like we were going to do them; we are not doing carbon capture and storage like we were going to do, and we are now going to expand our airports.
wales has benefited from eu solidarity through the structural funds and from legislation protecting workers, the environment, our rural areas and much more.
we want to work together in the interests of peace, social justice and sustainability.
his support for dodgy trade deals, like ttip, shows that he is happy to see a race to the bottom on workers’ rights, environmental protection and health standards.
‒ invasive species are undoubtedly an increasing problem in our globalised world, threatening biodiversity and costing the eu economy an estimated eur 12 billion a year.
such shortcomings, and a lack of recognition of climate variation within the eu risk undermining the very purpose of the basic act on invasive species.
‒ i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106 regarding the list of invasive alien species given there are legitimate concerns that the commission implementing regulation adopting a list of invasive species excludes a significant number of problematic invasive alien species and at the same time includes a number of species that are not detrimental to biodiversity, the ecosystem, human health or the economy in any way.
the 2020 biodiversity strategy will fail if we won’t fight the real challenges we are currently facing.
many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not listed, while some species are incapable of causing a significant negative impact on biodiversity, the ecosystem, human health or the economy.
for example, as one constituent has pointed out to me, the water hyacinth would not be able to survive in the climate of the west midlands and as such i would need further convincing as to why it may be included in the invasive species list.
‒ i voted for this report which says the eu and china must work more closely together to tackle global challenges and threats, such as terrorism, illegal migration, security, climate change and global financial and market governance.
‒ i voted for this report which says the eu and china must work more closely together to tackle global challenges and threats, such as terrorism, illegal migration, security, climate change and global financial and market governance.
it addresses the political, economic and environmental aspects of our relationship as well as the sore topic of social and human rights.
edouard martin’s report offers long-term solutions to this crisis and, if implemented correctly, could put european steel on the path to a sustainable future.
– today ukip voted against the report: developing a sustainable european industry of base metals.
we believe that eu’s obsessive green policy together with a lack of regulatory coherence has created great difficulties for energy intensive industries in europe.
we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal, with the renewed ets system, is the solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by the base metals industry.
on the one hand, it bemoans the high price of energy and its impact upon base metals in the european union.
on the other hand, the same report suggests a position on climate change which would lead to higher energy costs.
– today ukip voted against the report: developing a sustainable european industry of base metals.
we believe that the eu’s obsessive green policy together with a lack of regulatory coherence has created great difficulties for energy intensive industries in europe.
we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal, with the renewed ets system, is the solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by the base metals industry.
the supply of raw materials and high energy prices due to european energy policy are having an impact on the european base metals sector’s competitiveness.
however, i cannot support the introduction of a carbon border adjustment mechanism; this would encourage protectionism and potentially lead to retaliation from international trading mechanisms.
obliging member states to provide compensation for indirect costs encroaches upon fiscal sovereignty, and indeed such harmonisation would be too burdensome to implement given the disparities that exist between member states in terms of energy costs and intensity.
‒ people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs.
in the upcoming work on phase iv of the ets, labour meps will work to ensure that the system of free carbon allowances addresses the issue of carbon leakage.
should this not be sufficient, the commission should, as a last resort, examine the feasibility of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets.
however we do not support the introduction of a carbon border adjustment mechanism, which could encourage protectionism, lead to retaliation and undermine efforts to secure a global approach to climate change and emissions reduction.
conservatives also welcome the focus on the impact of high energy prices on competitiveness and agree that more needs to be done to compensate for indirect costs.
however, obliging member states to provide such compensation encroaches upon fiscal sovereignty, and harmonisation would be too burdensome to implement given the disparities that exist between member states in terms of energy costs and intensity.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to develop a sustainable base metals industry in europe.
people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs in the uk, including in my region of the west midlands, and across the eu as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs.
if the existing system of free allowances of carbon emissions fails to address the issue of carbon leakage, we will need to examine the option of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets as a last resort.
‒ today ukip voted against the report: developing a sustainable european industry of base metals.
we believe that the eu’s obsessive green policy together with a lack of regulatory coherence has created great difficulties for energy intensive industries in europe.
we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal, with the renewed ets system, is the solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by the base metals industry.
‒ this report deals with base metals, including steel, aluminium, zinc and copper, which are needed for industrial growth across europe and seeks to develop a sustainable base metals industry in europe.
people working in the industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu, as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs.
in the upcoming work on phase iv of the ets, labour meps will work to ensure that the system of free carbon allowances addresses the issue of carbon leakage.
if this is not sufficient, the commission should, as a last resort, examine the feasibility of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets.
‒ this report seeks to develop a base metals industry in europe which is sustainable in the long term and both maintains and develops this important sector.
it faces a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs.
in the upcoming work on phase iv of the ets, labour meps will work to ensure that the system of free carbon allowances addresses the issue of carbon leakage.
should this not be sufficient, the commission should, as a last resort, examine the feasibility of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets.
– today my colleagues and i voted against the report: developing a sustainable european industry of base metals.
we believe that the eu’s obsessive green policy together with a lack of regulatory coherence has created great difficulties for energy intensive industries in europe.
we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal, with the renewed ets system, is the solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by the base metals industry.
‒ this report seeks to develop a base metals industry in europe which is sustainable long-term and both maintains and develops this important sector.
people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs.
in the upcoming work on phase iv of the ets, labour meps will work to ensure that the system of free carbon allowances addresses the issue of carbon leakage.
should this not be sufficient, the commission should, as a last resort, examine the feasibility of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets.
‒ this report seeks to develop a base metals industry in europe which is sustainable in the long term and both maintains and develops this important sector.
people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu, as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs.
in the upcoming work on phase iv of the ets, labour meps will work to ensure that the system of free carbon allowances addresses the issue of carbon leakage.
should this not be sufficient, the commission should, as a last resort, examine the feasibility of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets.
‒ today ukip voted against the report entitled developing a sustainable european industry of base metals.
we believe that eu’s obsessive green policy together with a lack of regulatory coherence has created great difficulties for energy-intensive industries in europe.
we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal, with the renewed ets system, is the solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by the base metals industry.
‒ today ukip voted against the report entitled developing a sustainable european industry of base metals.
we believe that the eu’s obsessive green policy together with a lack of regulatory coherence has created great difficulties for energy-intensive industries in europe.
we believe that neither eu climate policy nor the new energy union proposal, with the renewed ets system, is the solution to resolve the severe difficulties faced by the base metals industry.
‒ i voted against this proposal because i do not believe that the eu mechanisms are the best solution for resolving many of the energy issues we have.
currently, the eu is massively dependent on imports and this report seeks to develop not only a competitive base-metals industry in europe, but a sustainable one.
we need a european solution to these problems and if the existing system of free allowances of carbon emissions fails to address the issue of carbon leakage, we will need to examine the option of carbon border adjustment mechanisms linked to the ets as a last resort.
people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu, as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of an influx of cheap steel and increasing energy costs.
‒ this report seeks to develop a base metals industry in europe which is sustainable long-term and both maintains and develops this important sector.
people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu, as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, social dumping, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs.
in the upcoming work on phase iv of the emissions trading scheme, labour meps will work to ensure that the system of free carbon allowances addresses the issue of carbon leakage.
should this not be sufficient, the commission should, as a last resort, examine the feasibility of a carbon border adjustment mechanism linked to the ets.
currently, the eu is dependent on imports of these and this report seeks to develop a sustainable base metals industry in europe.
people who work in the steel industry are losing their jobs, both in the uk and across the eu, as the sector confronts its most serious peacetime crisis ever, facing a combination of rising steel prices, an influx of cheap chinese steel and increasing energy costs.
point 2 of the joint motion for a resolution states that ‘successive governments have failed to build a fully-functioning, self-sustainable state’ in bosnia and herzegovina, and indeed your speech reflects this.
europe’s security environment has changed drastically and, of course, eu rules on arms exports must be tightened.
i believe this gives vietnam the opportunity to invest the benefits of trade for all groups within its society, reform its governance system, improve its human rights and join the global fight against climate change.
nasheed did much to enact such a programme, as well as to address the long-term problems that this small island nation continues to face from global warming and rising sea levels.
it is important to hold the commission to account, and for us to have answers to the tough questions about the emissions scandal – not least to find out what, if anything, the commission knew about it.
it is important to hold the commission to account, and for us to have answers to the tough questions about the emissions scandal – not least to find out what, if anything, the commission knew about it.
this is a well-balanced report which welcomes broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, helping it to fight corruption, respect human rights and make sustainable economic, social and environmental progress.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation given i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam – drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption; economic, social and environmental progress taking into account the principle of sustainable development.
i welcome broader and deeper cooperation in vietnam, which will help it on the road to reform and towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in addition to the fight against corruption, economic, social and environmental progress, while taking into account the principle of sustainable development.
‒ this is a well-balanced report which welcomes broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, helping the country to fight corruption, respect human rights and make sustainable economic, social and environmental progress.
‒ president, i voted in favour of the report on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation given i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam – drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption; economic, social and environmental progress taking into account the principle of sustainable development.
it is a well-balanced report which welcomes broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, helping it to fight corruption, respect human rights and make sustainable economic, social and environmental progress.
firstly, regarding the talk of a definition of a new type of refugee – a climate refugee – we have not thought through the consequences of doing this, and yet the parliament approved it by a large majority today.
3. it proposes a new kind of refugee, a ‘climate refugee’.
the current climate in the middle east, on the eu’s doorstep in ukraine, and indeed across the world has given rise to concerns about the availability of arms.
in today’s new global security environment, we need to reinforce our principles.
‒ member states must apply the eu’s eight—point code on arms exports more rigorously, particularly with the changed security environment in the eu’s neighbourhood.
undermining the innovative ability of the plant breeding sector to develop new plant varieties represents a threat to global food production and food security, will have a negative impact on european competitiveness, and will have a negative impact on measures designed to ensure more sustainable farming.
what we need is an african solution that will be a sustainable one, but i am concerned about the lack of unity and vision displayed by the african union and east african community in terms of mediation efforts, especially given the fragile stability of the entire great lakes region which is closely interlinked.
while of course ukip shares great concern over the exploration for oil in this national park with the possible serious ramifications for protected animals and the environment, and while we would urge the drc to comply with international law on protected sites, we cannot support the eu being involved.
while of course ukip shares great concern over the exploration for oil in this national park with the possible serious ramifications for protected animals and the environment, and while we would urge the drc to comply with international law on protected sites, we cannot support the eu being involved.
while of course ukip shares great concern over the exploration for oil in this national park with the possible serious ramifications for protected animals and the environment, and while we would urge the drc to comply with international law on protected sites, we cannot support the eu being involved.
we have called on the european commission to take action and devise viable strategies to help protect the park and to support sustainable development in the democratic republic of congo.
while of course ukip shares great concern over the exploration for oil in this national park with the possible serious ramifications for protected animals and the environment, and while we would urge the drc to comply with international law on protected sites, we cannot support the eu being involved.
‒ i supported the resolution as it calls on the commission to take action to help protect the park, to address the root causes of armed conflicts and corruption, and to support sustainable development and peace-building strategies in the democratic republic of congo.
while of course ukip shares great concern over the exploration for oil in this national park with the possible serious ramifications for protected animals and the environment, and while we would urge the drc to comply with international law on protected sites, we cannot support the eu being involved.
this resolution calls on the commission, member states and the oil companies who may be interested in exploring for oil in this area to voice their support for the current borders so as to minimise the damage to the environment here.