i am voting in favour because i consider it particularly important to consult the european economic and social committee on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport, in particular in relation to the balance sheet and the future path towards sustainable mobility in this sector.
the uncontrolled fishing of all living organisms without organisation and controls is wreaking havoc on the marine ecosystem.
there is a need for a shift in the economic policy of the european union to create sustainable growth in place of unilateral austerity, and that is why we have heard nothing from the latvian presidency.
what we need to make monetary union sustainable is a general restructuring of public debt, with the responsibility and initiative of the european institutions.
we waste energy and money trying to save others, but we cannot or - let us hope that this is not the case - we do not want to save ourselves.
on some issues, such as the protection of citizens and the environment, i agree with the commission's 2015 programme and on others i disagree, as the programme is based on a tighter economic policy and presents objectives that cannot be achieved under the current circumstances.
but to invest in a competitive globalised environment, the eu must abandon austerity, forced fiscal adjustment and the impoverishment of its citizens, while pursuing policies to boost demand and increase investment in education, innovation and research.
in addition, energy security, low energy costs, low interest rates and investment in the real economy, with particular emphasis on support for smes, must be ensured.
this mechanism can and should significantly strengthen member states by helping to create an investment-friendly environment, provided it operates with greater flexibility and directly mobilizes more capital.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment.
in the arena of war where the people of ukraine are being bled and at the negotiating tables of the imperialists where they hypocritically talk about peace, the knives of sharp competitions for energy and other interests are being sharpened.
madam president, we consider the functioning of the joint parliamentary assembly between the acp countries and the european union to be important because it is an important political forum where the representatives of the peoples of the two sides discuss and cooperate on serious issues: firstly, foreign policy, such as the political crisis in somalia or the situation in mali; secondly, issues with a significant social impact, such as human resources in the health sector in the acp countries or the social and environmental impact of coal mining or even price fluctuations.
the new fisheries collection agreement and protocol promote the interests of both parties, which is why i am voting in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of a fisheries partnership in the field of sustainable fisheries between the eu and senegal.
— we voted in favour of the agenda item under the title ‘sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and senegal’ because we believe that opportunities are given for the senegalese economy to prosper from a better exploitation of the stocks available, in accordance with the principles of a sustainable fishery and the best practices in the industry and that the new agreement and the protocol are in both parties’ interests.
i am voting in favour of the nicolai recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of a fisheries partnership agreement in the field of sustainable fisheries between the european union and the republic of senegal and its implementation protocol, on the one hand because the new agreement with senegal contains detailed clauses on the suspension of the application and/or termination of the protocol, such as article 13 on human rights violations and article 14 on non-compliance with the obligations of the contracting parties to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and on the other hand because this recommendation calls on the commission to submit annual reports to parliament on the implementation of the agreement, in particular on the multiannual programme and the detailed implementation protocol referred to in article 4.
in writing.
the specific motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament on the country of origin labelling of meat in processed foods, which i voted in favour of, has as its priority the better information of the consumer, but also the promotion of the quality of products for the benefit of producers.
i am voting in favour of the goerens report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, because this assembly is an important political forum where representatives of the peoples of both the eu and acp states discuss and cooperate on serious foreign policy issues, such as the political crisis in somalia or the situation in mali, as well as on issues with a significant social impact, such as human resources in the health sector in the acp countries or the social and environmental impact of coal mines in the acp countries.
any approach by the eu to third countries or their organisations, in the broad sense, must be designed and implemented on the basis of respect for their culture and civilisation, customs and traditions, always in conjunction with their specificities, with a view to their sustainable social and economic development.
the european union must seek to create a european energy union while diversifying its energy sources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the countries of the union to become less dependent on energy imports.
i am totally opposed to the commission's strategy of limiting the sovereignty of the member states in the conduct of their energy policy.
the european union must develop renewable energy sources and must stop tolerating energy poverty.
the new greek government must therefore resolve this issue immediately and the troika, which includes the commission, must stop putting obstacles in the way of direct and free electricity supply to these poor households, because greece cannot tolerate any more energy poverty.
in this context, the european commission and the european institutions must respect the will of the greek people and accept the drastic changes in the economic and fiscal policy mix that are required to put the greek economy and society on a sustainable track.
why is the reduction in energy costs not reflected in the utility's utility bills?
at the same time, the new truck specifications help to reinforce the new concept of combined transport, to enhance competitiveness and to protect the environment.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the recommendation because, while it contains some amendments which are moving in the right direction, especially as regards the impact of road transport on the environment, the new safety rules and the new technical specifications for lorries, it fails to take account of the different level of infrastructure in the various countries of the union, and it also fails to promote the interconnection of road transport with other means of public transport.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the recommendation because, while it contains some amendments which are moving in the right direction, especially as regards the impact of road transport on the environment, the new safety rules and the new technical specifications for lorries, it fails to take account of the different level of infrastructure in the various countries of the union, and it does not promote the interconnection of road transport with other means of mass transport.
‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 96/53/ec on the fixing of maximum authorised dimensions for certain road vehicles for national and international transport and of maximum authorised weights for international transport in the community, as emphasis should be placed on the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and in particular carbon dioxide emissions, to improve road safety, to adapt the relevant legislation to technological developments and changing market needs, and to facilitate intermodal transport while ensuring a level playing field and protecting road infrastructure.
the report aims to create sustainable jobs.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
we have not neglected to draw the attention of the government to the importance of protecting the environment.
greece supports montenegro's european perspective and has signed a cooperation agreement to provide expertise on european union issues as early as 2011. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
at the same time, there is a negative climate in the economy, as we have increased unemployment, and there are very serious phenomena and problems of corruption, as well as the activity of organized crime.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
to create new jobs, to support the creation of growth infrastructure, to enhance the sustainability of our economies and to boost the real economy.
the eu must rise to the occasion, propose solutions and ways forward to national governments, so that we can build together a modern, competitive and investment-friendly environment in our countries, with realism and a sense of responsibility.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles.
this, mr president, will only be possible with real investment in sustainable, green growth, such as renewable energy, the circular economy and the efficient management of resources.
but above all, improving health, the environment and our quality of life.
in those countries where it has been implemented, not only has it not ensured sustainable economic growth, but it has inflated their debt to the benefit of the creditors.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i was present at the recommendation because i agree with the need to limit smuggling and the proper and environmentally friendly management of the mediterranean and black sea biodiversity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am here today to speak on the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, because i agree initially with the need to limit illegal fishing and with the proper and environmentally friendly management of the biodiversity of the mediterranean and the black sea, but i believe that some points need further clarification.
‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and the protection of the marine ecosystem in which they are found play an important role in the context of blue development and, more generally, in the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the mediterranean basin.
‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, because the new agreement sets a clear overall objective concerning the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources and better defines the tasks of the gfcm, which include promoting common fisheries management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of no-fishing areas, and the collection and dissemination of data.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ there is an absolute need to limit smuggling in accordance with sound and environmentally friendly management of the mediterranean and black sea biodiversity, without ambiguities and gaps.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the european parliament, as a steadfast voice of the interests of the bourgeoisie, is taking the lead in promoting the reforms needed by capital around three main axes: a) reducing corporate taxation and social security obligations; b) liberalising the eu's single capital market in sectors critical to the profitability of groups, such as services, the digital market, energy, research and innovation; c) better linking education with businesses and their needs; d) reducing the cost of labour; c) new strikes on public social security and welfare systems; d) labour relations and employment rights; e) increasing labour mobility - with a need for a stable labour market, a transnational level of education and training; e) increasing the level of social security and social security; e) increasing the level of social protection and social protection; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the general public.
the european parliament, as a steadfast voice of the interests of the bourgeoisie, is taking the lead in promoting the reforms needed by capital around three main axes: a) reducing corporate taxation and social security obligations; b) liberalising the eu's single capital market in sectors critical to the profitability of groups, such as services, the digital market, energy, research and innovation; c) better linking education with businesses and their needs; d) reducing the cost of labour; c) new strikes on public social security and welfare systems; d) labour relations and employment rights; e) increasing labour mobility - with a need for a stable labour market, a transnational level of education and training; e) increasing the level of social security and social security; e) increasing the level of social protection and social protection; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the social partners; e) improving the social protection of workers and the general public.
the first item on the agenda is the commission statement on the sustainable exploitation of sea bass (2015/2596 ((rsp))
the regulation says that's not allowed.
for the last 50,000 years, homo sapiens has proven to be the greatest destroyer of life on the planet, since the meteorite that hit the yucatan 65 million years ago and completely changed the natural environment.
not all countries supported the foolish american expansionist policy which was the one that created the right environment for the caliphate to develop.
‒ the i voted in favour because i believe that the eu is facing a changing political and security environment and i believe that an ambitious and effective eu foreign policy needs to be based on a common vision of the key european interests, values and objectives in external relations, as well as a common understanding of the threats affecting the eu as a whole.
we are in the midst of a dramatic deterioration of the security environment around the eu and i believe that the political, economic, financial and defence resources of the eu and its member states must be strengthened and combined in order to maximise the eu's global influence, create synergies and ensure peace and stability in europe and its neighbourhood.
‒ the i voted in favour because i believe that respect for human rights, including economic, cultural, social and environmental rights, access to food, good governance, democratic values, peace, security and access to a fair and efficient justice system, is a prerequisite for reducing poverty and inequality.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the sea bass, because i believe that measures are needed to manage the sea bass fishery at european level in order to preserve this species.
‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the bluefin tuna, because it protects the bluefin tuna by preserving it as a fish species while at the same time managing the relevant fish stocks in a satisfactory way.
the commission the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
many colleagues made proposals on its enhancement and expansion, as well as on the use of its proceeds to augment either the eu budget or the fund for climate change and even the european fund for strategic investment.
unfortunately there is also a set of subjects on which we did not all find common ground, such as environmental issues and other indicators relating to the potential to generate growth and jobs, as well as the issue of protecting and defending whistleblowers – thanks to whom we know how the system works.
the increase in eu funding to ukraine is escalating the imperialist intervention of the eu and its us and nato allies in that country and their confrontation with russia, focusing on the region's wealth-producing and energy resources and their transportation routes.
in general, we must support by all means the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, as well as tax havens, with a view to promoting sustainable tax coordination for a long-term, growth-oriented economic policy.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report and support the recommendation of the social protection committee because it aims to ensure cost-effective work and income security, secure pensions and sustainable pension systems, promote social inclusion and ensure sustainable high-quality health care for all
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am in favour of the recommendation of the social protection committee because it aims to ensure cost-effective work and secure income, secure pensions and sustainable pension systems, promote social inclusion and ensure sustainable high-quality healthcare for all
ecr), in writing.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the social protection committee should aim to ensure cost-effective work and income security, secure and sustainable pension systems, promote social inclusion and ensure sustainable high-quality health care for all.
the cohesion fund will implement infrastructure projects in the transport and energy sectors.
this policy aims to protect the environment by putting an end to discards at sea.
however, alongside the objective of protecting the environment and conserving fish stocks, sustainable fishing should be supported.
mr president, i would like to ask the honourable member whether he is aware that the recent earthquake in the himalayas is linked to climate change, which is the consequence of any human intervention in nature, particularly in relation to fuels.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the objectives of the treaty.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new substances.
some have made a fortune by promoting the material as supposedly environmentally friendly, while causing tremendous ecological damage.
it is probably neither convenient nor economically advantageous, but we must be willing to make sacrifices for the environment, because the future consequences will be catastrophic for the whole planet if we continue to practice today.
since these bags are not usually reused, the environmental impact is significant, especially for aquatic ecosystems.
this directive makes the necessary amendments to the waste legislation to limit the impact on the environment.
i welcome and support this agreement and believe that today we are laying the foundations for tackling a very important source of pollution.
‒ the revision of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives puts a limit on the use of first generation biofuels with their often negative environmental consequences and unfair competition to agricultural and food production.
the present proposal, which i voted in favour of, provides an incentive for the development of environmentally friendly biofuels based on waste.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the text as a whole because the ways in which it is trying to promote biofuels will actually put even more pressure on the environment.
it also bases europe's energy consumption on third countries, namely the unstable countries of the so-called third world, thus prolonging energy insecurity and perpetuating the colonial relationship with these countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the whole text because the ways in which it is trying to promote biofuels will actually put even more pressure on the environment.
once again, europe's energy consumption is based on third countries, particularly the unstable countries of the so-called third world, thus prolonging energy insecurity and perpetuating the colonial relationship with these countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the directive is another move to support the import of energy into europe from unstable countries in the so-called third world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only more environmentally friendly but also more environmentally friendly.
‒ the today's vote is an important first step in the fight against plastic pollution.
the plastic bag has thus become the symbol of a consumer society that destroys the environment and causes the needless death of large numbers of birds and fish.
it is the symbol of a society without environmental sensitivities that does not protect its natural wealth, that is, in the case of greece, our heavy industry.
the policy i propose is to tax the use of plastic bags and to use the proceeds exclusively for the protection of the environment and in particular of our coasts and seas.
the reduction in consumption of small plastic bags is a minimal part of the environmental pollution caused by plastic waste, but the eu directive neither wants nor can touch and deal with it, since preventing its management does not serve the interests of monopolies at the moment.
once again, in the name of protecting the environment, the eu is trying to impose new burdens on the working class family, since the measure to reduce consumption it proposes is to pay for the small bags that will be collected directly by the monopolies that run the supermarkets.
this is a huge environmental problem, as billions of plastic bags end up as untreated waste, destroying our natural environment.
the reduction in consumption of small plastic bags is a minimal part of the environmental pollution caused by plastic waste, but the eu directive neither wants nor can touch and deal with it, since preventing its management does not serve the interests of monopolies at the moment.
once again, in the name of protecting the environment, the eu is trying to impose new burdens on the working class family, since the measure to reduce consumption it proposes is to pay for the small bags that will be collected directly by the monopolies that run the supermarkets.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting because i am in favour of any attempt to limit carbon dioxide emissions.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the recommendation for a second reading, reporting and verification of co2 emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/eu, because i am in favour of any attempt to limit co2 emissions.
‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/eu, because this proposal establishes a positive and effective system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ any effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions is welcome.
cod, herring and haddock are important components of the baltic ecosystem.
the text covers the need for effective management of these species and sets out rules for the most efficient, balanced and sustainable exploitation of the fishery resources of the area.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ landing rules must be respected in order to respect and protect the marine environment.
the commission mr president, the european union's forestry strategy must focus on sustainable forest management, with the primary objective of protecting the environment, especially at a critical juncture marked by climate change.
but if we really want to be sustainable, economic exploitation of forests must be carried out in a way that is long-term planning, that reinforces the principle of sustainability, that applies new technologies and that respects the limits of sustainable supply.
the kke voted against the report because it subordinates forests and their management to the competitiveness of industry monopolies supported by eu funds (from the horizon 2020 programme) and other facilities, within the framework of the eu's policy of energy self-sufficiency and its competition with other imperialist centres.
the solution to the problems of forests (decrease in biodiversity, illegal logging) is entrusted to forest owners, contractors and industry monopolies who cooperate with governments that invest for the profit of forestry companies and strike at the rights of forest workers, effectively undermining and completely cancelling the people's right to leisure.
references to sustainable development, the green economy, climate change, forest biomass as a renewable energy source and the protection of biodiversity hide nothing but new areas of profit for monopolies that further turn land and forests into commodities - objects of multiple exploitation.
the kke voted against the report because it subordinates forests and their management to the competitiveness of industry monopolies supported by eu funds (from the horizon 2020 programme) and other facilities, within the framework of the eu's policy of energy self-sufficiency and its competition with other imperialist centres.
the solution to the problems of forests (decrease in biodiversity, illegal logging) is entrusted to forest owners, contractors and industry monopolies who cooperate with governments that invest for the profit of forestry companies and strike at the rights of forest workers, effectively undermining and completely cancelling the people's right to leisure.
references to sustainable development, the green economy, climate change, forest biomass as a renewable energy source and the protection of biodiversity hide nothing but new areas of profit for monopolies that further turn land and forests into commodities - objects of multiple exploitation.
old and new threats are shaping a highly uncertain international environment, where asymmetric and hybrid threats have now been added to the conventional ones.
if we add to these the economic crisis, the rise of terrorism, illegal immigration and the failures in the implementation of european policies, then the interconnection and interaction of all these factors, makes up a highly volatile and unpredictable security environment.
without cooperation and solidarity in the field of defence and security, europe will not be able to cope with the threats that are thwarting any attempt to establish an environment of peace, development and sustainability.
the commission i think that the european commission, with its new measures and initiatives, has acted quickly, efficiently and institutionally, because it too operates in a constantly changing environment which, quite rightly, requires it to develop new initiatives.
but the situation will not improve substantially unless we create a comprehensive strategy for consolidating growth, directly involving smes, educational institutions and local government, in order to create sustainable jobs for young people.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the commission's 2013 discharge because i do not wish to give any discharge to budgets that waste european citizens' money on neo-colonial policies that do nothing but continually create problems all over the world.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013, as weaknesses were observed in the internal controls.
‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget under voting of the agency concerned, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, because the agency's verifications consist of a document-based analysis and on-the-spot verifications are rare.
‒ in the absence of (a) full transparency, (b) sound documentation, (c) reliability, (d) sufficient information on the implementation of the budget of the agency concerned under voting, i am voting against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial figures does not justify the discharge to the european environment agency.
‒ i am voting against because there is a need to clarify certain aspects of the joint undertaking's procedure with regard to the financial sustainability checks.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as there is a need to clarify certain aspects of the joint undertaking's procedure with regard to the financial sustainability checks.
‒ as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, the information provided on the financial envelope does not justify the discharge to the iter joint undertaking and the fusion energy development.
the commission madam president, sixteen years after the brutal war in yugoslavia in 1999 by nato and the european union, which claimed thousands of lives, their only objective has been to exploit untapped markets for gold-bearing businesses and to control the wealthy energy sources and their transport routes.
i raised this issue on 12 september with a question to the commission, bearing in mind that on 9 september 2014 a resolution was adopted by the united nations general assembly setting out and strengthening the procedures for a sustainable solution to the debt problem of developing countries and for member states to stop being treated by international creditors as enterprises.
the commission the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution.
the commission madam president, as the european investment bank is not a commercial bank, it must continue to play a key role in financing long-term investment in infrastructure, energy, research, transport and innovation.
the eib's initiative to issue bonds to finance sustainable infrastructure projects and the european central bank's decision to buy eib bonds are moving in the right direction.
we need sustainable agriculture, food security, a sustainable food system, safe food, the fight against obesity.
the consumption of foods which have a high cost to the ecological balance of the planet, such as beef and pork and wild-caught fish, must be reduced.
so we must also look at the protection of the plant environment.
‒ the the resolution calls on the european parliament and the committee on the environment to call on the european commission to draw up a european strategy to combat the negative consequences of alcohol abuse.
i therefore voted in favour of the resolution by the committee on the environment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the anniversary of the bangladesh factory fires and the progress of the bangladesh sustainability pact because it generally proposes measures to improve conditions.
‒ i am voting in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and developments in the bangladesh sustainability pact for the reasons i outlined in my speech to the european parliament on 27 april 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, due to the imposition of measures that create better conditions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the milan international exhibition 2015: food for the planet, energy as a source of life, because all sectors of production need more know-how and greater respect for the rules of wealth management.
the report under discussion is about development finance for the poor, gender-sensitive and climate-safe.
it talks about sustainable development, public goods and important commitments: i am in full agreement with the content, but i disagree with the target group for this aid.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i welcome the emphasis in today's debate on growth in non-eu states on the recommendation that sustainable solutions to public debt problems be sought.
the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists not only as a pretext but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
the 'democratic' cloak of institutions and non-institutions exists as a mere pretext, but also as a mechanism for consuming community funds, which are necessary to combat poverty and foster sustainable development.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i reject the amendment to the directive concerning the exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting applications in general and in screen lighting, since the text condemns an action by the commission (to extend the exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting and screen lighting applications) as unjustified, irregular and dangerous for the environment and european citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the text condemns an action by the commission (to extend the exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting and display lighting applications), an action which is unjustified, irregular and dangerous for the environment and european citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ positive, because there are solutions to combat the disease without environmental consequences.
there are solutions to combat the disease without impacting the environment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ there are solutions to combat the disease without environmental consequences.
i wonder why in the european parliament, and in the other institutions of the european union, there are officials who, instead of demanding that turkey be consistent with its obligations, are pressing those who ask for the obvious to accept turkey's behaviour and to agree to the opening of other chapters, such as chapter 15 on energy, so that turkey can allegedly carry out the necessary reforms.
the report's recommendations and wishes, which are repeated every year, as in the case of the cyprus casus belli, cannot hide the ambitions of the big imperialist interests for energy in the south-eastern mediterranean.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
the cultivation of state bigotry and altruism, exploiting the protectorate of kosovo, ethnic and religious conflicts, the change of borders, the change of bourgeois governments by crushing popular dissatisfaction with the anti-working class policy being followed, become tools for the redistribution of wealth, the control of the transport networks in the region especially energy by business groups.
the commission energy is a development and social good to which everyone must have access, without exclusion, if energy poverty is to be stopped.
the energy union must not exacerbate economic and social disparities in the european union.
at the same time, care must be taken not to turn the energy market into a space dominated by monopolistic energy giants, as is the case in the oil sector.
in greece, the troika is pressing the government to sell off public property instead of a billboard, even in the energy sector, by privatizing the small public utility company.
at the same time, the commission, as a member of the troika, is pushing for an increase in vat, which will lead to an increase in the price of electricity, further exacerbating energy poverty as thousands of households already lack access to electricity.
the troika had also for months blocked the implementation of the interruptibility institution which would have led to a reduction in the price of energy for energy-intensive greek industries such as larco.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the german presidency's agenda, which includes common values such as security, development policy, environmental protection and support for african countries in their reform efforts, is meaningless.
'protecting the environment' when a g7 member state the usa has not signed the kyoto protocol!
by perpetuating the cycle of poverty, forced marriage reduces a society's chances of creating sustainable development and social cohesion.
we are not interested in an industrial country, we are not interested in the exploitation of soft and renewable energy sources, we are interested in a resort, a large hotel, we are interested in greece!
the commission madam president, in the current economic climate, the effective implementation of gender equality policy is a top political priority.
inequalities between men and women have negative consequences for societies themselves and because of these inequalities, societies are no longer able to create sustainable development and social cohesion.
a policy which, in the service of the fierce conflict of interests for dominance over the energy map of the region, is completely indifferent to the disastrous effects on the peoples of the region.
emphasis is placed on the regulation of ipr enforcement, including the adoption of a 'monetary line monitoring' approach, which will aim to ensure that the most significant ipr infringers, in particular on a commercial scale, are identified and suffer financial losses
the commission madam president, the issue of climate change is particularly important because it is a threat to human societies, it affects the poorest of our fellow men in particular, it creates new migratory flows, it depletes water resources and it destroys the flora of the planet.
the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and iceland's participation in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol are important because they send a strong political message to the international community on the european response to climate change.
but other countries of the world, which have a historical and important responsibility because they have high emissions, should also be involved.
we look forward to important decisions at the un conference in paris in december, as the decisions taken by the g7 yesterday on the climate issue are disappointing.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
we consider energy to be a basic human commodity.
the european union's energy security strategy must therefore have as its main objective the effective elimination of energy poverty.
at the same time, while it is rightly pointed out in the resolution that energy should not be used as a political instrument of pressure in any framework of international cooperation, in other parts of it, and also in the opinion of the afet committee, it is proposed that energy should be used as a means of exerting political pressure and even with a blackmailing content.
you are asking for a single energy expression by the member states on the basis of a so-called solidarity and you are targeting their right, or that of other acceding states, to withhold from agreements because they affect the policy shaping of certain european interests.
such policies allow mr schulz to criticize democratically elected governments for their energy choices.
the commission madam president, the energy union and security of the european union, by promoting its independence from russia, boosting investment in renewable sources, further liberalising the energy market and privatising its infrastructure, serves the interests of the monopolies.
it is developing in an environment of business conflicts within the union, geopolitical rivalries with russia and china, with the united states becoming increasingly involved, with imperialist interventions and wars, with the european union, the united states and nato taking the lead, with the victims being the peoples, waves of migrants and refugees.
the communist party of greece revealed that behind the greek government's positions on "geostrategic upgrading" in the energy "game", it is promoting greater involvement of the country in imperialist competitions on behalf of big interests.
as long as wealth is in the hands of a few and energy is a commodity, people will pay more for fuel and electricity, thousands of households will be deprived of heating.
the commission madam president, the european union's energy security strategy sounds ambitious, but in these matters everything is judged by the result.
in my view, the european commission should promote serious energy investments in greece, such as the underwater connection of crete to the energy system of mainland greece, exploiting the opportunities offered by the juncker plan and the partial privatisation of the ppp.
madam president, in general i am aligned to the principles of this report and also the proposed actions which should be taken into account in the planning of the european energy security strategy.
but, in this respect, it is necessary to stress the role of energy efficiency as a new energy source and of further renewables, since they contribute both to the increase of eu energy security and to the transition to a low carbon economy.
since in the eu we are always concerned with the diversification of energy sources, let me just underline the importance of the trans-adriatic pipeline, which is a project that is almost under construction in the southern gas corridor and has already been selected to transport diversified gas supplies to europe.
in addition, the discovery of significant gas reserves in the eastern mediterranean offers us potential for a future supply from indigenous energy sources.
i believe that we cannot build energy security without investing in our own resources.
the commission madam president, european energy security must ultimately be aimed at ensuring energy independence for the member states of the union.
firstly, it must be transformed into a modern energy hub, making use in particular of the tap pipeline, but also of the greek stream and liquefied gas.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation as the doha amendment introduces a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, which includes legally binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the relevant commitments, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9 june 2015, and also because that recommendation sets an ambitious climate change reduction target of reducing average annual greenhouse gas emissions by 80% between 2013 and 2020 for both the european union and its member states and iceland.
‒ the doha amendment introduces a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, which includes legally binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ the eu climate and energy package determines the total greenhouse emissions allowed for the period 2013-2020. the eu member states and iceland undertook the commitment to limit their average annual greenhouse emissions (2013 – 2020) to 80% of their base year emissions (second commitment period under kyoto protocol).
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments entered into by the european union, its member states and iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9 june 2015, and because it sets an ambitious climate change mitigation target of reducing the average annual greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 by 80% for both iceland and the european union and for the member states.
‒ i voted against the report on the state of eu-russia relations because it promotes the revival of a cold war climate in europe which does not contribute to consolidating peace.
the report calls for the escalation by all means, military, political, economic-of the eu's aggression against capitalist russia, focusing on their conflict after the eu-us-nato imperialist intervention in ukraine, but also the overall control of energy resources and their transport routes in the wider eurasia.
the report calls for the escalation by all means, military, political, economic, of the eu's aggression against capitalist russia, focusing on their conflict after the eu-us-nato imperialist intervention in ukraine, but also the overall control of energy resources and their transport routes in the wider eurasia.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
it is these same ideologies that are driving the government in my country, greece, to increase its dependence on a single supplier, russia, undermining energy security.
what will it really mean for european energy security, for the supply of gas from multiple suppliers, if the tap pipeline is not put into operation and the game continues with turkish stream, for which there are no funds, by the way?
what does the greek government's refusal to partially privatize the power grid, to increase private participation in renewable energy sources, or to pay off debts to private individuals, mean for the single energy market and, ultimately, for energy security?
the resolution is essential to advance energy security.
it is, however, a prerequisite for governments of member states, such as greece, which are not working towards the integration of the energy market to comply with this direction.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report because the eu certainly needs to focus on new energy sources, such as wind and solar, giving more incentives to achieve this goal, while at the same time stopping the promotion of environmentally harmful sources such as hydraulic fracturing and not serving third party interests.
‒ energy is a public social good and should therefore not be regarded within a profit—making framework.
i voted against the saudargas report as there are many points that undermine the commitment towards a sustainable energy model.
the fact that the report makes reference to the use of nuclear energy is unacceptable, and such a reference should not be made anywhere in the eu.
additionally, the aim of an energy strategy should be to cover the needs of the people through necessary infrastructures and energy interconnections.
it is to this extent that cooperation with russia and other third countries should be promoted, while the report is completely against this line of cooperation; it seems it is only strong capital forces that could benefit from a single energy policy, and not member states and their citizens.
‒ i voted against the report on the european energy security strategy because i disagree with the content of that report for the reasons i detailed in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 9/6/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the eu certainly needs to focus on new energy sources such as wind and solar, giving more incentives to achieve this, while at the same time stopping the promotion of environmentally harmful sources and interventions such as hydraulic fracturing and not serving third party interests.
the blind servicing of the geo-strategic military and economic interests of nato, the united states and certain circles of the european union in the region, for the control and routes of energy resources, honourable colleagues, by demonizing only one country, without a trace of self-criticism and criticism of the policies of your allies, is explained by the conclusion.
the attempt to extend nato and the union to the caucasus, moldova and ukraine, the energy hybrid and electronic warfare in the baltic region and the countries of the ionian peninsula, the sanctions against russia, crimea, are all part of the ceaseless struggle for power and leadership by the powerful players in these organizations.
i would just like to point out, mr president, who will benefit from the situation that is now developing, or will be created in azerbaijan when azerbaijan is isolated, when it is the organization that with the tap supports the energy security of europe?
‒ i voted against the report on the strategic military situation in the straits basin following the illegal annexation of crimea by russia, for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 10 june 2015, and also because it promotes the revival of a cold war climate in europe, which does not contribute to peace in the wider region.
the report calls not only for the deployment of nato forces and bases in the regions stretching from poland and the baltic states to georgia and azerbaijan, but also for the presence of strong eu naval and air forces to control energy sources and their pipelines to the eu.
the report calls not only for the deployment of nato forces and bases in the regions stretching from poland and the baltic states to georgia and azerbaijan, but also for the presence of strong eu naval and air forces to control energy sources and their pipelines to the eu.
we need sound public finances, but also growth and sustainable debt, and this is a european, political problem which must be solved with common responsibility.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area.
a clear and secure investment environment that will remain stable for many years.
the european union is seeking to create a fair and secure business environment, characterised by transparency and the ability to support companies that are consistent with their tax obligations.
‒ the the result of the ongoing global crisis is that many workers are not only losing their jobs but also have difficulty reintegrating into the existing socioeconomic environment.
the commission the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i think that it is important that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the environment is a very important factor in the development of the european union.
but the approach is again the indicators, the change in perception, the measurement of progress, zero waste; goals that are practically unlikely to be achieved.
the commission mr president, resource efficiency is now an urgent environmental issue.
the transition to a sustainable and circular economy must be coupled with, firstly, the promotion of decent work, secondly, the protection of the environment, thirdly, strong social parameters and fourthly, the guarantee of safe working conditions.
the adoption of new waste targets should also be stepped up, as this could create 180 000 jobs and reduce the demand for costly resources in order to make europe competitive.
this means that livestock farming must continue to be productive and sustainable, especially in remote and mountainous areas.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
we should also not give away public services like energy, water and hospitals.
the concerns in the agricultural, environmental and social sectors are manifold.
will be to the benefit of the people with the aim of the fast and cheap movement of people and goods, the saving of energy, the balanced intervention in the environment, the planned development to eliminate regional inequalities, the full control of the defense and security of the socialist state.
with the distribution of labour and work for all, and the exploitation of the socialized sector of industry, the design for an interconnected and complementary functioning of transport (road, air and sea) will be to the benefit of the people with the aim of the fast and cheap movement of people and goods, the saving of energy, the balanced intervention in the environment, the planned development to eliminate regional disparities, the full control of the defense and security of the socialist state.
‒ the there is no doubt that sustainable development is closely linked to private investment and finance.
the commission mr president, the legislative proposal to reform the european emissions trading system proposes the creation of a reserve for the market stability of the system and as a solution to the imbalances between supply and demand of emission allowances.
those imbalances have led to a surplus of around two billion allowances in the 2013-2020 trading period and thus reduce incentives for low-carbon investments.
the aim is therefore to correct the deficiencies in the system so as to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the creation of a market stability reserve, in the existing system, will be ineffective, however, unless serious and sustainable investments in alternative energy sources are planned and financed.
without these investments, tackling climate change and the european union's transition to a sustainable low-carbon economy will remain a blank slate.
however, even in the context of budgetary austerity in the 2016 budget, these funds should be allocated mainly to job creation, support for the unemployed, combating poverty, supporting the action of small and medium-sized enterprises, social, economic and territorial cohesion of the union, sustainable agriculture, regional development, in particular of island regions, supporting solidarity actions in the countries of the european south and especially in greece, which has been impoverished by austerity and the memoranda.
‒ i voted against the report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations for the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) because the restrictions we are fighting to maintain concern the most important social issues and some of the most important environmental rules, such as labour rights, safe food rules, regulations on the use of chemicals and laws on the protection of personal data.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted against the report, which, as above, concerns the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme, as it does not create a structured and solid environmental protection network from this activity.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to this report on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme, because it does not create a coherent and solid environmental protection network for this activity.
– the market stability reserve is considered to be a correction mechanism to the emissions trading system (ets) with regard to the surplus of allowances.
the surplus is an obstacle to a balanced carbon market functioning undermining thus investment in low carbon technologies.
as the main aim of the ets directive is to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner, it should be further supported.
the report unfortunately does not provide a clear and detailed framework for longer term solutions, however i have voted in favour with a view of supporting the ets implementation as a tool for avoidance of a further increase of co2 emissions.
‒ i abstained from the vote on the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading and amending directive 2003/87/ec for the reasons set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/7/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report is incomplete as regards the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme.
it does not create a coherent and solid environmental protection network from this activity.
‒ i am voting in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part, linking the swiss confederation to the horizon 2020 research and innovation framework programme and to the european atomic energy community research and training programme, which complements horizon 2020, and regulating the swiss confederation's participation in the activities carried out by the cohesion for energy enterprise, as it is sufficiently advanced.
the report emphasises some elements in relation to job potential like environmental taxation, social partnership for transition, greening workplaces and energy efficiency, among others.
‒ i am voting against the report on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) because, while it creates multi-level and strong interdependent relations between the eu and neighbouring countries, neighbouring countries are nevertheless treated more as energy suppliers than as real partners.
the most effective way to help family businesses is to address their problems in existing smes or industry-related policies such as the creation of a supportive business environment or participation in the various european union funding programmes.
it means support for renewable energy sources and forms of local cooperation.
madam president, in the last century, human activity has led to the greatest disruption of the ecological balance that has occurred on planet earth in the last 65 million years.
in less than 100 years, we humans have managed to wipe out almost half of biodiversity, and not only are we continuing today on this pernicious path to desertification, but we are also on the verge of further distorting the balance of nature and evolution through the cloning of animals, and possibly not only animals.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a public place is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
it means support for renewable energy sources and forms of local cooperation.
this attitude must be passed on to the citizens so that they are prepared to cope with the competitive market environment.
it is worth noting that cultural heritage touches on many areas of public policy, such as those relating to regional development, social cohesion, agriculture, maritime affairs, the environment, tourism, education, the digital agenda, external relations, customs cooperation, and research and innovation.
the upgrading of these should be done with the passenger in mind and the environment in mind.
but transport is responsible for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions.
it is the second largest sector of greenhouse gas emissions after the energy sector.
these are leadership positions which some women are entitled to seek, provided, of course, that they themselves have the necessary competitive spirit and that the environment allows competition to develop freely.
the government that emerges from the elections must be stable and guarantee a secure economic environment within the framework of the agreement.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disbursement of €400 million to help third countries, including the city of marrakesh, is an unprecedented waste of resources that the eu draws from european citizens, supposedly to manage them for their benefit.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disbursement of eur 400 million to help third countries, including the city of marrakesh, is an unprecedented waste of resources that the eu draws from european citizens, supposedly to manage them for their benefit.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disbursement of €400 million to help third countries, including the city of marrakesh, is an unprecedented waste of resources that the eu is drawing from european citizens, supposedly to manage them for their benefit.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disbursement of €400 million to help third countries, including the city of marrakesh, is an unprecedented waste of resources that the eu is drawing from european citizens, supposedly to manage them for their benefit.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disbursement of eur 400 million to help third countries, including the city of marrakesh, is an unprecedented waste of resources that the eu draws from european citizens, supposedly to manage them for their own benefit.
however, trade facilitation agreement (tfa) does not include issues like: climate change, reducing the gap between rich and poor countries, promoting fair trade.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the disbursement of €400 million to help third countries, including the city of marrakesh, is an unprecedented waste of resources that the eu draws from european citizens, supposedly to manage them for their benefit.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
today's statements by mr juncker, the threats he has made against third countries, including the award of the title of 'safe country', are a sign of the european union's increased aggressiveness and the intensification of imperialist competition for control of energy resources and their transport routes.
in order to have sustainable health care systems in the european union, there must be increased public spending.
growth will also lead to the creation of new jobs and so the social partners themselves will be able, in their own part, to secure resources to maintain the sustainability of health care systems in the european union.
mr president, it is hypocritical to discuss the sustainability of health care systems in europe in general and vague terms when there are huge differences between countries, depending on their economic situation.
madam president, in july we voted in the committee on legal affairs, and by a large majority, the report on the application of european law for the years 2012-2013. the report also served as a tool for our committee's dialogue with the committees on petitions, constitutional affairs, the environment and human rights.
the isolationist tactic of azerbaijan is wrong because it leads to the isolation of a state which is a strategic partner of the european union and safeguards its energy security.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because, driven by environmental concerns and global warming, certain provisions serve commercial interests.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am opposed to the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport because, driven by environmental concerns and global warming, certain provisions have been introduced to serve commercial interests.
‒ i am voting against the report on 'implementing the 2011 white paper on transport: an overview and a future path towards sustainable mobility', for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 8/9/2015.
‒ in the face of environmental concerns and global warming, certain provisions serve commercial interests.
madam president, the eradication of poverty is the central objective of the united nations summit on sustainable development.
the draft un general assembly declaration, to be debated at its next session, sets ambitious goals for the sustainable development of humanity, such as eradicating poverty and hunger, protecting the natural environment and promoting peace in human societies.
if the un member states are serious about their grandiose declarations on sustainable development, then we need to limit births in the third world by empowering women, informing them about preventive methods and facilitating access to them.
mr president, one of the objectives of the summer energy package is to empower energy consumers.
the main issue for consumers is energy poverty.
the shrinking of incomes, combined with rising energy prices, has put a double burden on the greeks.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not based on the principle of subsidiarity.
at the same time, the syriza-anel coalition government, together with new democracy-pasok and potami, with the third memorandum, and under the cloak of the troika, proceeded to sell off the country's energy silver and are already embarking on the privatization of admie and the sale of the public shares in hellenic petroleum.
these privatisations will lead to further increases in energy prices and to a worsening of energy poverty in greece and therefore must be stopped.
mr vice-president of the commission, the energy package is indeed an opportunity to redesign the electricity market, to upgrade energy efficiency in europe and to review the emissions trading system in order to strengthen the balance between industrial production and the reduction of greenhouse gases.
the first is that the commission must monitor very closely the harmonization of the countries in the single energy market.
and this concerns first and foremost my country, greece, which must on monday, after the elections of 20 september, proceed immediately to liberalize the energy market so that prices can fall and consumers can have cheaper electricity.
to put an end to the practices of the past that prevented private individuals from entering the energy market and generating electricity.
if we look at the parameters of the emissions trading system, we may have the opposite of the desired result.
we work for and demand solutions towards growth, a sustainable debt direction, and a strong welfare state.
the tragic and critical nature of the situation precludes any waste of time for in-depth political analysis and technical approaches.
the scandal surrounding the volkswagen fraud is economic, environmental and highly political.
mr president, today it is revealed that over 8 million volkswagen cars are on the road in europe with the illegal software, and that the european commission had already identified discrepancies between declared and actual emissions since 2013, without doing anything.
this scandal, on top of everything else, is undermining our credibility, just before the climate change summit in paris.
- that we do not sacrifice our environmental ethics even in this time of economic crisis to the altar of profit and the distortion of competition of the multinationals.
the european union should take immediate action by carrying out strict checks on cars of all companies throughout europe to protect the environment, health and consumers themselves.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ the the report, which is the result of months of negotiations between the european parliament, the european commission and the council, aims to reduce emissions of certain pollutants from medium-sized combustion plants.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against, although the report could be improved further, but it is a positive step towards protecting the environment and the health of european citizens.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i vote against the report on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium-sized combustion plants, although the report could be improved further, because it is a positive step towards protecting the environment and the health of european citizens.
‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 6/10/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ while the report could be improved further, it is a positive step towards protecting the environment and the health of european citizens.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which improves community legislation and strengthens the implementation of pollution reduction rules in the eu.
mr president, on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the enormous environmental disaster that the danube suffered, i take this opportunity to inform you of the pollution of many greek rivers, mainly by industrial and municipal waste water.
strymon, nestos, axios, lydia, french, pineios, aliakmonas and, above all, asopos are all rivers that face, each to a different degree, pollution problems.
the local authorities and, above all, the inhabitants have been fighting this environmental crime for years.
i support their mobilization and i call on the greek government to take all the necessary measures here and now to stop environmental crime on the asopos and on the other rivers of greece, otherwise it will be criminally responsible, as previous governments have been.
mr president, nord stream 2 proves that, in the energy sector too, the economy is the decision maker.
businesses, but above all consumers, need access to cheap energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
the strategy of the multiple southern energy corridors and their passage through my country, greece, is of key importance in this respect.
with developments in iran, the construction of tap, the discovery of oil deposits in egypt, israel, cyprus and the deposits in greece, the energy framework is changing radically.
greece must be a strategic energy hub and a gateway to the new architecture by exploiting its energy reserves, away from the guardianship of the troika and the creditors, with the sole purpose of benefiting our people and their well-being.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because we need very strict controls on industrial waste.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting in favour of this report because we need very strict controls on industrial waste.
‒ the i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster five years after the accident in hungary, for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 7/10/2015, in which i also referred to the pollution of many greek rivers, mainly by industrial and municipal waste water.
strymon, nestos, axios, lydia, french, pineios, aliacmonas and, above all, asopos are rivers that each face, to varying degrees, pollution problems.
the local authorities and, above all, the inhabitants have been fighting this environmental crime for years.
the greek government must therefore take all the necessary measures here and now to stop environmental crime on the asopos and other rivers in greece, or else it will be criminally liable, as previous governments have been.
‒ the most stringent controls on industrial waste are needed.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
madam president, once again we are discussing today, as we have done so many times before, the issue of global warming.
the accession countries, as well as any other country wishing to have trade and other economic relations with the union, must comply with european environmental protection rules.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the most effective way possible.
madam president, the motion for a resolution we are discussing points out that climate change is a huge threat to human societies and that there is an urgent need for action to lead to a legally binding global agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the report is also right to stress the need to exploit clean energy technologies.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
climate change is an undeniable threat to the environment and to people.
but the way the upcoming cop21 in paris is being held is not the answer to the problem but an opportunity for the franco-german axis to push climate diplomacy even more aggressively in favour of franco-german interests.
the sole objective of these companies is to increase their exports to developing countries which are already suffering the devastating effects of climate change.
a phenomenon caused mainly by the carbon dioxide emissions of developed economies such as the united states, china and germany.
contrary to these interests, climate change must be addressed urgently because it will result in the creation of millions of climate refugees.
it is estimated that already between 2008 and 2013, climate refugees number 166 million.
if today the eu, and especially my home country greece, cannot cope with the refugee flows due to the war in syria, imagine how difficult it will be in the future to cope with the huge flows of refugees due to climate change.
a first buffer for future management of this issue is the international legal recognition of the climate refugee status.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against because, although the text contains many positive elements, it does endorse the carbon trading system, which we are opposed to.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the new international climate agreement in paris.
the report contains many positive elements, but it welcomes the carbon trading system, which i am opposed to.
‒ this report towards a new international climate agreement in paris proposes resolutions which go beyond the existing statement of the european commission and the council.
the main improvements of the report are to get civil society involved, to respect human rights, to limit the rise of temperature at global level below an average of 2° c, and last but not least to reduce also greenhouse gas emissions.
i voted in favour of this report, since it supports important changes for a new international climate agreement.
‒ the i am voting in favour of the report on a new international climate agreement in paris because the issue of climate change is a global problem and a threat to the environment and to man.
i support the report on this point because it is very important that the status of environmental refugee should be internationally legally recognized.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the eu's climate and energy strategy and its targets for agreement at the forthcoming international conference in paris serve the interests of large business groups.
the eu is exploiting climate change to open up new areas of profitability for monopolies in the fields of 'green technologies', renewable sources and other forms of 'low-carbon' energy.
as long as monopolies dominate the economy and power, all the people's problems will worsen, the environment will deteriorate, as will the health and quality of life of the workers.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the text contains many positive elements but welcomes the carbon trading system, which we are opposed to.
‒ i too supported the report by the environment committee on the new international climate agreement in paris.
climate change is a fact and the eu must have a unified voice at the forthcoming paris conference.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i voted against this report because most of the adjustments and regulations and policies in general that have been implemented in the past by the european union have resulted in contributing to inefficient health systems as well as to the mismanagement of financial resources, since they have resulted in unreliable ngos, resulting in the waste of resources which, if properly and properly allocated, would have led to tangible results in the fight against diseases such as ebola.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am opposed to this report because most of the adjustments and regulations and policies in general that have been implemented in the past by the european union have resulted in contributing to inefficient health systems as well as to the mismanagement of financial resources, since they have resulted in unreliable ngos, resulting in the waste of resources which, if properly and properly allocated, would have led to tangible results in the fight against diseases such as ebola.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the most of the adjustments and regulations and more generally policies that have been implemented in the past by the european union have resulted in contributing to inefficient health systems as well as to mismanagement of financial resources, as they have resulted in unreliable ngos, resulting in the waste of resources that if properly and properly allocated would have led to tangible results in the fight against diseases such as ebola.
the new proposal on real driving emissions from euro 6 vehicles must also be finalised without delay.
the new proposal on real driving emissions from euro 6 vehicles must also be finalised without delay.
the new proposal on real driving emissions from euro 6 vehicles must also be finalised without delay.
the conditions are more favourable for the groups to penetrate more deeply into new sectors with potential for growth, such as the blue economy, energy networks and connected transport.
it is indifferent to the effects on the environment and the health of european citizens.
the commission i would like to say that i am in favour of the commission's proposal and i agree with the comments made by mr josé bové, who raised a great many issues which concern not only consumer health but also environmental protection and the future of agriculture itself.
the commission madam president, air pollution is a major problem with health, environmental, social and economic dimensions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution of the air by means of the use of diesel engines.
the european union and the member states must take action against diesel engines after the volkswagen scandal, as the majority of investigations link pollution from diesel engines to premature deaths.
it is therefore clear that the european diesel engine and vehicle industry must be put under the microscope of the commission and the member states, because what is important is public health, environmental protection and not the super profits of volkswagen, .... (the president interrupts)
ecr), in writing.
we are talking about food and feed for which we do not know the long-term effects that they may have on the environment and our bodies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment and human health from the effects of gmos.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment and human health from the effects of gmos.
in particular, the establishment of low emission zones and a road toll system aimed at reducing the pollutant emissions of diesel vehicles, particularly in urban areas.
for all these reasons, we shall vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
it is imperative to empower the competent authorities to ensure compliance with all legislative provisions relating to the 2030 thresholds; in particular, the establishment of low emission zones and a road toll system aimed at reducing emissions from diesel vehicles, particularly in urban areas.
for all these reasons, i am voting in favour of the report with the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
‒ the according to reliable data, air pollution is responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths in the eu each year.
in this context, the european parliament proposes reasonable exemptions for polluting substances in the livestock sector, ensuring that the burden of reduction is mainly borne by waste and waste management, but also by the energy sector.
‒ i am voting in favour of postponing the vote on the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
in particular, the establishment of low emission zones and a road toll system aimed at reducing the pollutant emissions of diesel vehicles, particularly in urban areas.
the reform policies imposed through the structural reform support service providing technical assistance to member states and the country-specific recommendations (troika and technical stages in greece) are destroying any effort at sustainable development.
the reform policies imposed through the structural reform support service providing technical assistance to member states and the country-specific recommendations (troika and technical levels in greece) are destroying any effort at sustainable development.
the reform policies imposed through the structural reform support service providing technical assistance to member states and the country-specific recommendations (troika and technical levels in greece) are destroying any effort at sustainable development.
practice has shown that the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity do not apply to the esi funds, in particular to country-specific recommendations, which fail to achieve economic growth and sustainable growth and job creation, leading to measures (further austerity and cuts) that are contrary to the objectives of cohesion policy.
practice has shown that the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity does not apply to the esi funds, in particular to country-specific recommendations, which fail to achieve economic growth and sustainable growth and job creation, leading to measures (further austerity and cuts) that are contrary to the objectives of cohesion policy.
practice has shown that the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity does not apply to the esi funds, in particular to country-specific recommendations which fail to achieve economic growth and sustainable growth and job creation, leading to measures (further austerity and cuts) that are contrary to the objectives of cohesion policy.
the commission mr president, commissioner, the smart border strategy, when it started, had a different social and geopolitical environment.
the principle of proportionality must be applied and an environment must be created in which fundamental rights are guaranteed.
the commission mr president, europe 2020 reflects the priorities of european capital for an even more favourable environment for increasing its profitability and competitiveness by exploiting innovation; energy union, climate change, digital and banking market integration, further delivery of education and health to big capital.
it has now been demonstrated that summertime has negative effects on health, transport and european industry, and does not help to reduce energy costs.
the commission madam president, in the age of technology, drones can be very useful in connection with search and rescue, environmental protection, agricultural and industrial production, journalism, commercial and recreational activities.
the second is to remind people that remote areas of europe such as the small islands have enormous problems in the transport and energy sectors.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the according to the report on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems commonly known as unmanned aerial vehicles in civil aviation, these systems are to be used for a wide range of purposes such as disaster management, search and rescue, environmental protection as well as law enforcement and surveillance.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it proposes actions in the fields of digitisation, sustainable and responsible tourism and the promotion of europe as the number one destination in the world.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the report builds on the three priorities of the juncker commission: sustainable growth and jobs, the connected digital single market and a deeper and fairer internal market, which have all remained stagnant.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the i am voting against the report on the new challenges and concepts for promoting tourism in europe for the following reasons: it builds on the three priorities of the juncker commission, sustainable growth and jobs, the connected digital single market and a deeper and fairer internal market, which have however remained stagnant.
the programmes for fiscal consolidation, the plans for sustainable development, the creation of quality jobs and the juncker plan for development are, a priori, doomed to failure.
the commission mr president, vice-president dombrovskis, in my country, greece, the figures in the commission's autumn forecasts are extremely worrying for our future, despite the apparent recovery of the euro area: recession of 1.4% in 2015, recession of 1.3% in 2016, unemployment of 25.7% in 2015, unemployment of 25.8% in 2016. in such an environment the commission should encourage structural changes by showing that their implementation ultimately leads to relief for citizens.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already taken a number of important decisions on the subject.
the commission mr president, today, given the development of science and technology, the discovery of new sources, new pipelines, what is the obstacle to people enjoying cheap energy to have heating in winter, air conditioning in summer, for energy workers to have labour rights, to reduce the energy dependence of countries like greece?
in the context of the energy union scheduled for 2019, energy is being handed over to business groups, which will drive up already unaffordable prices at the expense of working-class families.
the commission mr president, the european union is at a critical juncture in its energy policy.
in an environment of global instability the peoples of europe cannot afford to be dependent on fuels coming from the most dangerous areas of the world.
it is a fact that despite the relative reduction in pollutant emissions in europe in recent years, levels are still very high with known catastrophic consequences for the environment.
on the gas issue, europe, which is heavily dependent on russia for energy, in pursuit of its anti-russian policy, wants to import us lng from shale gas via greece, as was agreed at political level during prime minister alexis tsipras' recent visit to the us.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution from industrial sources is a step in the right direction.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, commissioner, you have presented us with the state of the energy union, based on the same failed model of privatisation which cannot guarantee our countries energy security, reduction of economic and environmental costs or the fight against energy poverty.
the commissioner, the demands of the troika in greece, both in the first memorandum and in the recent discussions, the discussions now taking place with the greek government, which call for the privatisation of the state electricity company and the energy networks, are moving in the same direction.
the commission the commission's report on the state of progress of the energy union and my country, greece, is particularly interesting.
the report rightly points out that greece can become a regional energy hub, both in terms of the electricity market and in terms of natural gas.
at the same time, my country must exploit all its energy resources, that is to say, renewable energy sources and our mineral wealth in the ionian and aegean seas and southern crete.
the construction of at least one additional lng station is of particular importance in terms of the trajectory, while the strengthening of the multiple southern energy corridors, which will pass through greece, is an immediate priority.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the mercy of the troika and the creditors, and that the interests of our people, their well-being and the eradication of energy poverty are taken into account.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european energy union, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, and the establishment of a european energy agency.
firstly, there must be initiatives to reduce the energy costs of industry, particularly energy-intensive industries, and thus to strengthen its competitiveness and increase exports.
thirdly, the energy market must be liberalised quickly and effectively in a way that is based on attracting capital, the cohesion funds and the juncker programme.
finally, much can be done in the field of energy saving, provided that the financing problems of businesses and households are solved.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the momentum is already accelerating for a more transparent fiscal environment in the eu, and we must assure those who put resistance and obstacles in our way that there is no way to stop us.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the steel industry in greece, and it is therefore necessary to take measures to support employment and modernise the various greek steel industries, as well as larco and the other energy-intensive base metal industries.
the european union is already promoting a new round of intensified repression against the peoples and imperialist intervention in the region with provisions and mechanisms that have been in place for some time, such as article 42. at the heart of the debate is the competition for energy in the middle east and africa, which is being contested by the united states and powerful european union states in competition with russia and china.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which is widely accepted and supported by my colleagues in the committee responsible.
it should aim to ensure the union's energy security, to build mutually beneficial relations, and to enhance trade in goods and services.
in areas such as regional policy, energy, transport, the environment and fisheries, the funds are managed jointly by the commission and the member states.
we must monitor and sanction fraud, inadequacy and waste.
however, i cannot fully support this motion for a resolution, since the measures for cooperation in education, fair trade, sustainable development, training and creating socioeconomic opportunities are not enough.
in addition, the european parliament has taken account of political, social and environmental issues which are being promoted and should be further strengthened by the government of the country.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has called for the commission to be given the power to adopt the directive on the protection of the environment by means of a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
the commission madam president, european society is consuming renewable resources 50% faster than it can replace them, while the european union imports six times more materials and natural resources than it exports.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
as concerns about environmental conditions are a constant theme and as the deadlock in the european and global economy continues, the need to improve the way in which countries and businesses develop and to take any action that can protect the environment is becoming apparent.
the clear environmental protection objectives, through the reduction of pollutant emissions, better waste management and recycling of products, confirm the importance of the transition to a circular economy.
the commission madam president, sustainable urban mobility projects are directly linked to the promotion of sustainable urban transport.
in addition, the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of transport should be improved and the attractiveness of the urban environment in general increased.
given that 40% of carbon dioxide emissions are caused by traffic problems in large cities, binding targets should be set to reduce the emissions caused.
the commission madam president, virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo is considered one of the most important parks in all of africa, with a rich biodiversity, and is also considered a unesco world heritage site as it has thousands of rare wildlife.
the commission should therefore take immediate and multiple measures to protect the biodiversity of the park and to protect the animals at risk, and at the same time take initiatives to force the democratic republic of congo to comply with international requirements.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ the the report on sustainable urban mobility touches on an issue that concerns the vast majority of european states, and it comes at a time when discussions on a new binding climate agreement have been formalized.
the unpleasant reality, which includes evidence of a steady rise in emissions since 1990 and which is associated with some 400 thousand deaths per year from pollution issues, is at the same time inextricably linked to transport problems and malfunctions in the urban environment.
i therefore believe that this proposal brings to the fore such issues as the protection of the environment and the health of citizens, particularly in urban areas, and i have therefore decided to support it.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it proposes ways of acting that will benefit both the environment and european citizens and improve public health and living standards as well as the appearance of cities.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on sustainable urban mobility.
the report proposes ways of acting that will benefit both the environment and european citizens and improve public health and living standards, as well as the image of cities.
‒ this report deals with the goal of facing up to the current environmental challenges by reducing urban mobility towards more sustainable modes of transport.
the climate, health conditions, the road user’s life and social cohesion demand urgent action.
by rethinking the way in which we conceive urban mobility and by shifting to more sustainable modes of transport, we can deal more effectively with these challenges.
‒ i am voting in favour of the report on sustainable urban mobility for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 2/12/2015, and because it is comprehensive and well-founded.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report proposes ways of acting that will benefit both the environment and european citizens and improve public health and living standards, as well as the image of cities.
‒ i voted in favour of the report of the committee on transport and tourism on sustainable urban mobility.
it is important that the european union takes the lead in this initiative, because this will increase energy security.
secondly, the internal market and competition must work in each member state, since the energy mix is a matter of national policy and since clean technologies are essential.
in my country, greece, there is a problem with private access to all energy sources.
the consumer is the one we must ultimately protect; we are here for them, so that they can reap the benefits of the energy union as quickly as possible.
the commission mr president, the european union's energy strategy continues to promote, not only out of idealism but, above all, out of selfishness, the separation of accounting and ownership of public electricity generation and transmission companies, with the aim of fully liberalising european electricity markets, which will, however, exacerbate energy poverty in greece and the other countries of the european south.
in practice, there can be no strong energy strategy for greece without a strong ppp.
moreover, the energy union strategy does not in fact serve anything other than the interests of european multinationals active in the energy sector, while at the same time limiting the sovereign rights of the union states to formulate and design an independent energy policy.
the commission the european energy union is a utopia.
those who embrace it either dream of it or promote financial interests that do not treat the citizens of the countries as energy consumers.
energy shortages will continue to exist.
it 's an unbreakable rule: european energy security must ensure european security and the sovereignty of european countries without exception or asterisk.
only national capacity mechanisms for producing and exploiting national resources can contribute to energy independence and sustainable development in a europe that is constantly shrinking, ethnically, anthropologically, christian and socially.
the commission madam president, on tuesday 1 december 2015 the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament decided not to authorise the use of genetically modified maize nk 603t25 for food and feed.
the integration of markets such as energy, digital and banking capital markets, without removing the barriers between member states, aims to raise capital and to upgrade european monopolies, in view of the signing of the transatlantic agreement.
it seems that for the euro area to institutionalise its functioning within the european economic governance framework, the council’s recommendation indeed makes an important step forward, but much more should be done in order to form the environment of legitimacy for the euro area’s economic decision-making, and this should be crystal clear.
the short-stay visa requirement contributes to ensuring order, preventing the entry of criminal elements and creating a climate of mutual trust, as long as the rules are respected.
the short-stay visa requirement contributes to ensuring order, preventing the entry of criminal elements and creating a climate of mutual trust, as long as the rules are respected.
the short-stay visa requirement contributes to ensuring order, preventing the entry of criminal elements and creating a climate of mutual trust only if the rules are respected.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ the the report on the road to a european energy union is a debate of particular importance for all member states.
although it contains positive elements regarding the sources and the process of energy production, it does not treat the question of energy as a field of concern to society as a whole.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ we are voting against the report because we believe that it fails to respond to and provide solutions to the union's major energy problem, while at the same time not avoiding obstructions and aggressive rhetoric towards third countries.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because it fails to respond to and provide solutions to the major energy problem facing the union and because it does not avoid blocking and aggressive rhetoric towards third countries.
‒ i am voting against the report on the road to a european energy union because it is neither complete nor well-documented, and for the reasons i explained in detail in my speech to the european parliament on 14/12/2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the report fails to answer and provide solutions to the major energy problem facing the union and does not avoid blocking and aggressive rhetoric towards third countries.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the road to a european energy union because i believe that europe needs a sustainable energy landscape based largely on energy efficiency, renewable energy and smart infrastructure.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: we are opposed to this report because it gives too many powers to the commission, because it points to countries outside the union which, as is particularly the case with turkey, are also hostile to member states as almost equal partners, and finally because it does not even guarantee the achievement of the objective of energy security for the union's states.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against this report because i believe it gives too much power to the commission, because it puts countries outside the union, which are, as is the case with turkey, hostile to member states, as almost equal partners, and because it does not ultimately ensure that the objective of energy security for the union's member states is achieved.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ this report gives too much power to the commission, it gives almost equal partners to countries outside the union which, especially in the case of turkey, are also hostile to member states, and it does not guarantee the achievement of the objective of energy security for the union's countries.
moreover, no one is absolutely sure about how nature actually works on climate change.
as long as the multinationals are destroying huge swathes of rainforest every day, as long as china and india are rampantly destroying the environment, you can be sure that with electric cars and wind turbines there is no chance of us achieving anything.
as long as fossil fuels are the cheapest source of energy, plans like the one agreed in paris will have no effect.
s & d) and the mr president, for the first time, a climate agreement has been signed by 195 countries, whereas the kyoto protocol, for example, was signed by only 38 countries.
the european parliament must therefore take initiatives to raise awareness of the value of combating climate change through a new environmental ethic that we must adopt.
the commission the rapid climate change that the planet is experiencing is due to the distorted production and consumption model that has prevailed.
the decision of the un conference on climate change in paris does not provide a clear framework for dealing with the phenomenon and its devastating consequences.
another huge political shortcoming of the agreement is the lack of any reference to the climate refugee regime.
the climate refugee regime must be institutionalized immediately and future climate refugees must be allocated among states on the basis of size and population, but mainly on the basis of each country's historical cumulative contribution to carbon dioxide emissions.
the countries of the north, germany and france, must assume their responsibilities so that the european south and greece are not turned into a repository for climate refugees.
‒ the the motion for a resolution on the objection under article 106 of the regulation on the list of invasive alien species is a technical proposal of great importance because it aims to maintain important balances in europe's natural environment.
economic interests, the pursuit of wealth and the increase of geopolitical and geostrategic position are the main causes of conflicts, crises and wars, as well as of the deterioration of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment, the environment, the environment, etc.
economic interests, the pursuit of wealth and the strengthening of geopolitical and geostrategic positions are the main causes of conflicts, crises and wars, as well as of environmental degradation.
among our amendments were those highlighting climate change, inequalities and economic violence as root causes of the humanitarian crisis, stressing the need for especial protection of women and girls and lgtbi people, and calling for the need to ensure women and girls access to the full range of sexual and reproductive health services, including safe abortions.
economic interests, the pursuit of wealth and the strengthening of geopolitical and geostrategic positions are the main causes of conflicts, crises and wars, as well as of environmental degradation.
‒ the the report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry provides a positive basis for the development of policy actions to support the sector.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ i am voting against the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry because i believe that this report fails to propose a solution to the ongoing and major problem of european base metal industries, which is unfair competition from china.
consequently, it is important to continue modernise in order for this sector to regain its global competitiveness and meet the social and environmental challenges.
the report calls for political action on this matter, it stresses the need for the base metals industries to adapt to the new climate scenarios and for the eu to equip itself with flexible and responsive trade protection measures.
‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry because it is comprehensive and well-founded, and for the reasons i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 24/11/2015.
‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, including the paragraph on the carbon border adjustment mechanism for imports and exports.
it is necessary to exhaust all possibilities for reducing energy costs and for safeguarding fair competition between european and foreign steel industries.
‒ the as revealed by a complaint from an ngo and after inspections by the us environmental protection agency, more than 8 million volkswagen cars are on the road in europe with illegal software.
it was also found that as early as 2013, the european commission had identified discrepancies between reported and actual emissions without doing anything.
‒ the the agreement with vietnam strengthens cooperation with the european union by helping the country on the path towards better governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the fight against corruption, and touches on issues such as progress on social rights, environmental protection and respect for the principle of sustainable development.
‒ the the agreement with vietnam strengthens cooperation with the european union by helping the country on the path towards better governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the fight against corruption, and touches on issues such as progress on social rights, environmental protection and respect for the principle of sustainable development.
‒ the the agreement with vietnam strengthens cooperation with the european union by helping the country on the path towards better governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the fight against corruption, and touches on issues such as progress on social rights, environmental protection and respect for the principle of sustainable development.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i also refer to the arguments i set out in detail in my speech to the european parliament's plenary on 16 december 2015.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has voted against the report because its main concern is the propaganda of the non-existent values espoused by the eu.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has voted against the report, as its main concern is the propaganda of the non-existent values espoused by the eu.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is the duty of every country to respect the environment and to take all necessary measures to preserve it, especially when it comes to areas designated as world heritage sites.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is the duty of every country to respect the environment and to take all necessary measures to preserve it, especially for areas designated as world heritage sites.
the eu is in a position to coordinate a diplomatic response from eu member states, to help the drc government to address armed conflicts and support sustainable development in the vnp.
the commission shall adopt the following measures: ‒ the it is the duty of every country to respect the environment and to take all necessary measures to preserve it, especially when it comes to areas designated as world heritage sites.