the sustainability of the fisheries as a goal is unquestionable.
in conclusion, i don't think gmos are some kind of devil seed but until we are completely sure of their impact on health and biodiversity, states must have the ability to ban them.
madam president, as a person who is in favour of the principle of subsidiarity, i believe that the member states must have the autonomy to prevent or restrict the release of living genetically modified organisms into the environment.
however, i consider that in the context of the above, special attention should be paid to the sustainable development of the fishing sector of são tomé and the benefits that this brings.
i believe that the said protocol would contribute to a stronger cooperation between the european union and são tomé and príncipe in the area of establishing and developing a sustainable fisheries policy.
the aim of the protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe, but also to establish a sustainable fisheries policy and the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in these fishing zones, of course in the interests of both parties.
the agreement also opens up possibilities for assistance in the research and development of the fisheries of the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe, as the european union could financially support the development and control of sustainable catch and the conservation of the fishery.
the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, which entered into force in january 2014, governs the main relations between the republic of seychelles and the european union and is the most important agreement of the european union relating to the indian ocean, addressing the access of vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte.
i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles on access for fishing vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the resources of mayotte as it concerns issues of sustainable fisheries but also the protection of european waters.
moreover, tunisia is a prime example of how mutual assistance and dialogue can create an effective pathway towards sustainable and inclusive growth and development.
i voted in favour of the request to consult the european economic and social committee on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: analysis and the way forward towards sustainable mobility for the purpose of drawing up a report for parliament.
the objective of this strategy is to increase the competitiveness of the transport system in the european union by increasing mobility, removing bottlenecks on key transport routes, reducing dependence on fossil fuels and reducing co2 emissions by 60% by 2050. to succeed in achieving these goals, the european commission has set targets to be met by 2050:- increase the use of less co2-emitting fuels by 40%.
in today's context of increased traffic volumes and excessive pollution, the priority objectives of shifting road freight to rail or water transport, reducing the eu's dependence on oil imports and carbon dioxide emissions, and linking the fragmented road network into a single trans-european transport network (ten-t) should be focused.
i would stress the need for a new role for local units, which can assess congestion and pollution problems most quickly, and use eu funding sources to develop sustainable urban mobility.
in doing so, increased mobility must not have a negative impact on the environment.
- i support the consultation of the european economic and social committee on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport, as the implementation of the plan needs to be continuously monitored and upgraded, and transport is also the basis of economic sustainability.
the eu has committed to significantly reduce its greenhouse gas emissions and is doing so according to plan, while some other international actors are not adhering to this agreement.
the majority of transport today uses oil and its derivatives and the use of new technologies to reduce emissions should be encouraged more intensively, and the eu could make a much broader contribution, as european companies are the world leaders in the transport industry.
caring for biodiversity and caring for food production is our duty as legislators.
genetic engineering involves the introduction of genes from one species into another, and this can have far-reaching consequences for the environment, food production, and human health.
the harmful impact on the environment, biodiversity and local agricultural production, as well as public resistance, are legitimate reasons for member states wishing to do so to have the right to restrict the introduction of gmos on their market.
this framework pursues the overall objective of ensuring a high level of protection of life, health and welfare, the environment and the interests of consumers, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
we need to improve food control across the board to sustain the world's population growth, to combat hunger and climate change, which will make fertile soils much harder to farm.
i believe that a directive allowing member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos opens the door to gmos and cross-border pollution throughout europe and therefore i did not support its adoption.
we must ensure that our own, and especially future generations, can live on organically and healthily produced food and follow a policy of environmental protection, biodiversity and domestic agricultural production.
it is important to emphasise that this is not an endorsement of gmos but only the possibility of their use with overwhelming scientific evidence of harmlessness to health and the environment and respect for cultural and political practices.
the proposal, which i support, contains a number of measures leading to the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of bycatch of certain species and the conservation of others in the gfcm agreement area.
the conservation of the mediterranean's marine resources, which are often threatened by environmental and human factors and represent a significant part of europe's heritage, is of paramount importance.
the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) promotes the development, conservation and sustainable management of marine ecosystems in the mediterranean and the black sea.
the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean has adopted a number of recommendations to regulate the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of sea turtles and seals, and the high protection of endangered species of marine organisms such as sharks and rays.
i supported the report on the fisheries regulations in the area of the agreement on the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean as i believe that the gfcm recommendations provide a sufficient level of safety for endangered species and sustainable fisheries.
i support the amendments mentioned, bearing in mind that they contain certain technical measures aimed at enhancing the sustainable exploitation of red coral, reducing incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and whales, but also preserving mediterranean sea urchins, sharks and rays.
adding to the red coral's plight is the global warming we are witnessing, as well as the growing problem of marine pollution.
i support the provision for fisheries in the gfcm agreement area which the gfcm adopted at its annual meetings 2011 and 2012 for measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral in its area of competence which need to be transposed into union law.
the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules for the application of this regulation, in particular the rules on the protection of the marine environment and the rules on the protection of the marine environment.
humanitarian disaster, fires that could cause environmental disaster and the potential blockade of an international airport are just part of the daily lives faced by the libyan people.
what i also want to commend is the commitment to the digital union and the digital economy, but also the energy union for obvious reasons.
the government in kiev is asking for another $15 billion in aid, and some experts say that only $50 billion would be enough for a sustainable reconstruction program.
however, ukraine could only receive these funds if it fulfils the well-known objectives of international creditors: the expansion of the tax base, the deregulation of industry, the improvement of the business climate and the sale of state assets.
we will have the third financing for development conference in july in addis ababa, the un post-2015 summit in september, and the global climate agreement at cop 21 in paris in december.
in addition to the riga event last week, in march the latvian presidency will hold a high-level conference in riga on gender, women’s economic empowerment and sustainable development in the post-2015 agenda.
in may, expo milan will open its doors to thousands of visitors, involving them and inviting them to reflect on the theme of ‘feeding the planet, energy for life’.
i am of the opinion that the covert interference of regional actors can only lead to the complete disintegration of the state and endanger the stability of the wider mediterranean environment.
they can cause profound environmental consequences and make it difficult for the earth to recover in the future.
i express my support for the libyan government in managing its energy resources and we must all work together to help and not to interfere with third parties.
i also believe that there is a need for reforms that will contribute to energy security and to resolving the humanitarian crisis that has hit this country, with the help of the european union and other international organizations.
the importance of stability and energy security in the eu's neighbourhood was underlined.
the position of the russian energy minister is highlighted, who considers the trilateral agreement between the eu, russia and ukraine on the supply of russian gas to europe non-binding.
although the proposed programme is not ideal because it largely omits topics such as environmental protection, i strongly support its fundamental determinant, namely the investment plan as one of the fulfilled promises.
however, given that the energy sector, transport connectivity and research were mentioned as areas of investment, i think that the potential of this plan is great for croatia too, regardless of which of the 77 submitted projects is accepted, which is why i once again express my support for it.
i supported the resolution of the green/ees club because as shadow rapporteur for the legislative package on waste management circular economy i am extremely unhappy with its exclusion from the 2015 programme.
the exclusion of the package from the work programme inevitably delays the establishment of quality waste management.
the commission has also taken the necessary steps to ensure that the union's waste management policy is properly implemented.
the emphasis is on social protection, environmental protection and consumer protection.
energy security is highlighted as a prerequisite for stability and development, and small and medium-sized economies are highlighted as a symbol of a healthy economy.
turkey was an example of a secular state, but the ruling structure wants to stifle such values and create an environment of unity and obedience.
then there will be a conference in new york in september on the new sustainable development goals and in paris in december on climate change.
it was a great decision by the international community to bring together two different processes, one that was about climate change, and the other to create a new development framework.
i welcome the further advancement of global climate policy positions and the commitment expressed in lima to reach an ambitious agreement in paris this year.
europe has done its part on the global stage at this stage, but it is important that it remains a credible leader in international efforts to combat climate change.
i would remind this parliament that the eu's credibility in the context of climate negotiations depends on the ambition of action within the eu and, according to the european commission's announcement, the eu is on track to achieve its 2020 targets.
i would also recall the statement made by the commissioner to parliament that we need to make progress on strengthening climate change mitigation ambitions well before 2020 to stay on track to achieve the 'below 2°c' target.
one of the first indicators of whether we are moving in the right direction will be a debate on a european energy security strategy.
it must include adequately valued measures for energy efficiency and renewable energy production, as this is key to achieving european energy security and independence.
if we as the eu advocate and propose an agreement on three binding targets - reducing emissions, increasing energy efficiency and increasing the share of renewable energy sources - then these targets must be consistently and convincingly addressed in the european strategy papers.
energy policy should move towards a resilient eu that is competitive, secure and sustainable with far-reaching climate change plans.
as policymakers, we can apply the findings of scientific studies and the ipcc reports that have shown that global warming is caused by anthropogenic activity.
the key elements of the 2030 ambitious energy and climate policy agenda are: reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% below 1990 levels, increasing the share of renewable energy by at least 27% of european energy consumption and increasing energy efficiency by at least 27%.
investing in 'green technologies' will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, boost the economy, create new high-tech jobs and strengthen the eu's competitiveness.
analyses indicate that 2014 was the warmest year on record in europe, exceeding the record of 2007 by 0.3 c. also, nine of the world's ten warmest years have been recorded since 2000. to keep global warming below 2 oc per century, the development of carbon capture and storage technologies is crucial.
therefore, i support the new agreement which will be a major step towards creating a transformed, energy-efficient europe as a leader in the fight against climate change.
we are aware of the importance of the european union's energy security, but not at the cost of endangering the environment, and not at the cost of endangering thousands of jobs in an economic sector that produces healthy food for the citizens of croatia, but also for the citizens of the european union.
unfortunately, too often the legislator introduces new rules under pressure from interest groups, whereas i believe that our task is to find a balance between industry and the consumer so that the final consumer is as informed and protected as possible, and industrial production remains sustainable and profitable.
these critical elements will be part of our dialogue with the congolese government, with the objective of reducing tensions in the political climate.
let me ensure you that we will continue to keep a close eye on national decisions that might impact on the sustainability of this park.
i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal and its implementation protocol, as the agreement establishes a renewed framework for cooperation between the eu and senegal.
in this context, it is important to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and to provide support and satisfactory conditions for the local fisheries sector.
the financial statement defines a total amount of eur 9,6 million for commitments and payments for the years 2014-2018. i supported the report on the agreement and partnership on sustainable fisheries between the european union and the republic of senegal, as it will improve cooperation between the eu and senegal to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and exploit fisheries resources in senegalese fishing zones in the interests of both parties.
although the agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal was signed in 1981, the protocol has not been in force since 2006. i therefore support the renewal of the agreement initiated last year and the agreement in that it meets the objectives of senegal's national fisheries policy, in particular the need of the republic of senegal for additional scientific research, surveillance and the fight against overfishing, support for small-scale fishermen and sustainable fishing to enable the recovery of the endangered ecosystem.
in all these areas, the eu can use its experience to help achieve the common long-term goal of sustainable fisheries and the protection of ecosystem biodiversity.
i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal and its implementation protocol.
the strengthening of cooperation between the european union and the republic of senegal to support a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the senegalese fishing zones is in the interest of both parties and opens up new perspectives for responsible and sustainable fishing necessary to conserve resources for future generations, and i therefore support the report.
i support the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal which emphasises the long-term interests in achieving the objectives of sustainable fisheries, restoring ecosystems and stocks, and combating illegal and unregulated fishing.
investments in the fisheries industry of west african countries, as well as in all other coastal countries with which the eu cooperates on sustainable fisheries, must aim at strengthening the fleet of small-scale fishermen whose fishing practices represent a sustainable way of managing natural resources without significant adverse impacts on the sea.
the continued violation of fundamental rights has been accompanied by a climate of impunity in the implementation of the cia programme, as evidenced by the extensive surveillance programmes of the us national security agency and the secret services of various member states.
i believe that the continuing violation of fundamental rights has been facilitated by the climate of impunity in the implementation of the cia programme, as confirmed by the extensive surveillance programmes of the us national security agency and the secret services of various member states.
the sustainability, security and stability of internet governance will continue to be of paramount importance in the future, and the european parliament should continue to give its full support to this.
as a permanent member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i attach particular importance to the quality and safety of the food consumed by the citizens of the european union.
it is a single multilateral, interparliamentary assembly established under the cotonou international agreement, which aims at reducing and finally eradicating poverty and sustainable economic development.
the assembly should continue to proactively monitor the political, economic and social development of the acp countries while promoting the development goals of human rights and democracy based on the rule of law, transparency and accountable government, which are key elements of sustainable development.
effective multilateral cooperation in achieving sustainable development and the inclusion of poor, fragile and vulnerable countries in the world economy can only be achieved through the full and transparent mobilisation of available resources and detailed reporting on where and how aid funds are spent.
i wanted to say that we live in very turbulent times, that the crisis is all around europe itself, and that europe needs to muster enough strength, enough energy, enough spirit to respond to all the problems, and that's why i used greece, among other problems that europe is facing at the moment.
our mission is to create a safe environment for children online to both protect and empower them.
mr. president, we need safe, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy.
and that's why we need an energy union.
secondly, there is a lot of potential for renewable hydropower in the balkans, both in the member states and especially in the candidate countries or potential candidates.
i warn you about this great renewable energy resource in the balkans.
mr. president, mr. vice president sefcovic, you have put a lot of effort and energy into bringing an important document in a short time.
i'll just list a few: decarbonising energy and the economy, boosting regional cooperation in south east europe which is still under pressure from history and war, cheaper energy for our citizens and economy as perhaps one of the most important political challenges we face in the coming years.
i hope that you will take the implementation of the energy union in that direction and i wish you every success in that.
mr president, i support the idea of an energy union because it will give citizens greater choice in energy supply and encourage competition and consequently lead to lower prices.
from a geostrategic standpoint, the union is needed to reduce the dependence of our member states on russian energy, with which moscow is clearly buying our passivity when it comes to their aggressive policy towards their neighbours.
i also wish to express my full support for the construction of an lng terminal on the croatian island of krk, which should become the backbone of the future common energy market for the countries of central europe.
mr president, i would like to welcome the launch of the energy union after more than 60 years since the european coal and steel community was founded.
so, today we have something new and it's really necessary, the energy union, because it's unacceptable that some countries, like russia, use their energy resources to do political trade with other countries, and i think that's simply unacceptable.
the fact is that most of europe's energy comes from outside the european union, more than 55%.
it is also a fact that our infrastructure is outdated and so it is good that energy security is high on the agenda in mr juncker's commission, and i am very pleased that the investment plan has been adopted.
so i welcome the energy union and i welcome even more the construction of an lng terminal in croatia.
i welcome the commission's new initiative which recognises that now is the right time to act on the energy future of the european union, as we are facing energy poverty and a large proportion of citizens cannot pay their bills.
we should not be fooled by the current low fossil fuel price situation, because europe is now dependent on imported energy.
so our goal should be to invest in tomorrow's technologies that will give us energy independence from clean and renewable energy sources.
if we really want to meet the targets of the 2020 and 2030 energy and climate strategy, it is clear that we cannot afford to look again at the short-term interests of the oil industry, but we must take a firm step towards the use of renewable energy sources, which is a prerequisite for sustainable development.
i believe that the dimensions of energy efficiency, carbon reduction and research and innovation are particularly important, and europe is currently lagging behind in the application and exploration of new energy technologies.
the energy union project must lead to a reversal of investment policy and a single position on a common strategy for future development.
i am delighted with the projection of the future of the energy union as a system in which all our citizens, through the use of clean energy and smart distribution and consumption systems, will become global leaders in the path of preserving life on the planet and sustainable development.
commissioner, i congratulate and welcome the strategy of establishing the energy union and the free transfer of energy as a common good.
the energy union can be discussed in many contexts: energy independence, diversification, efficiency and sustainability.
but the time of the eu's serious security challenges places a particular emphasis on the energy security context.
i am therefore pleased that the european energy security strategy has also included three croatian projects: the lng terminal on the island of krk, the ionian-adriatic pipeline and the hungarian-croatian reverse stream.
political reality proves that the availability of energy has become the oxygen for democracy.
the eu's political integration therefore needs to be upgraded to include energy integration.
the energy union and a forward-looking climate policy are among the key priorities of the juncker commission.
the objectives of the energy union are security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness.
the commission has proposed short-term measures in its report on the energy union security strategy in may 2014, but at this point in time it is necessary to take a step forward in the realisation of this important project for the future of europe.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy.
given that the eu imports 53% of its energy and that six member states are dependent on one external supplier, and bearing in mind the current nature of the eu-russia relationship in view of the aggression against ukraine, the eu needs to diversify its gas supply and make it more resilient to possible supply disruptions.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the energy union and the cohesion policy, in particular by supporting the implementation of the energy union and the cohesion policy.
one is ukraine, greece, libya, paris, copenhagen, and the other group is the energy union, the economic and monetary union, and also the investment plan.
that is why i insist that we implement coherently and uniquely both the economic and monetary union and the energy union and the investment plan, and that we put them into practice.
i consider that the main task of the european central bank is to preserve price stability, to achieve sustainable economic, social progress and employment, which has largely been achieved in the light of the difficult economic situation.
i am talking here primarily about the single energy market and the single digital market.
we're really talking about something that's damaging our environment here, and that's why i'm for the so-called precautionary rule.
mr president, one of the main policies of the european union is to combat climate change.
this is of course a corollary of our environmental policy and it is certainly a corollary of our objective of decarbonising the european economy.
unfortunately, we are witnessing the possible soon construction of the plomin 3 coal-fired power plant in istria, croatia, which will certainly not contribute to decarbonization, environmental protection and our policy to combat climate change.
what i'm particularly pleased about, as a member of the environmental protection committee, is that we're going to make significant savings and we're going to protect the environment.
renewable energy is europe's future, and we must do everything we can to encourage its development and help it when it is in difficulty.
in this case, the negative impact on enterprises as a result of competition from emerging economies is shown, but i believe that it is precisely in such cases that countries should approach genuine market liberalisation which, together with a responsible fiscal policy, will enable enterprises to achieve a higher level of competitiveness and sustainable operations.
improved aerodynamics of the cabs of motor vehicles allow for significant improvements in the energy performance of the vehicle and the possibility to equip the vehicle with a new cab design will contribute to improving road safety by reducing blind spots in the driver's field of vision.
‒ the proposed amendments to directive 96/53/ec on the fixing of maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and of maximum authorised masses in international traffic for certain road vehicles circulating within the community will allow manufacturers to exceed the current design of truck cabs in order to increase the safety and environmental performance of these vehicles.
the more aerodynamic appearance would also reduce drag and thus reduce fuel consumption, which would have a positive impact on the environment.
amending this directive would allow manufacturers to install hybrid drive systems to further reduce pollution and therefore i supported the report on the dimensions and masses of road vehicles in the community.
‒ i support measures aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions as well as reducing the consumption of fossil fuels for road transport.
i welcome the need to give public transport priority over private transport in the interests of better energy efficiency, which means that it is necessary to regain the former number of passengers in bus transport, taking into account both the increase in their weight and the weight of their luggage.
‒ the aim of changing the maximum authorised weight in road transport is to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, to adapt legislation to technological developments and to adapt to market needs and facilitate intermodal transport.
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as well as the reduction of the consumption of petroleum products in the transport sector has become crucial, even crucial for road transport, which accounts for 82% of the energy consumption in the transport sector.
in addition, the increase in fuel prices is driving the need to identify solutions to reduce vehicle fuel consumption and consequently reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the white paper on transport set a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
in this context, it announced a revision of the 1996 directive with a view to introducing more energy-efficient vehicles on the eu market.
energy efficiency must be one of the priorities of the european union, which is why i support the report by mr leichtfriede and the objectives it sets.
‒ in order to protect the environment, increase energy efficiency and reduce fossil fuel consumption, the council has accepted waste heat as one of the main sources of alternative fuels.
the use of alternative sources reduces environmental pollution but has an impact on the increase in the total mass of the vehicle.
in order to maximise energy efficiency, motor vehicles shall be equipped with aerodynamic retractors or retractable aerodynamic devices attached to the rear of the vehicle.
the new cab design should have increased aerodynamic performance, which, in addition to the energy factor, greatly improves the overall road safety of the vehicle and the driver's comfort.
i therefore support the report by mr leichtfriede and the directive and believe that technical adaptations should be introduced, fuel consumption and co2 emissions reduced, road infrastructure protected and free competition ensured.
‒ i supported the report on the dimensions and masses of road vehicles in circulation within the community because i believe it is essential to emphasise the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in particular carbon dioxide (co2) emissions, and to improve road safety by adapting the relevant legislation to technological developments and changing market needs.
the above affects the strengthening of the sustainable growth of the community as a whole.
although at first glance the dimensions and masses of road vehicles are not directly related to the above, the fact is that a better vehicle design will result in less air resistance and thus less fuel consumption, which ultimately means less greenhouse gas emissions and less pollution.
considering that the transition to alternative propulsion systems involves a system that draws energy from batteries or other electrical energy storage devices for the purposes of mechanical propulsion, we will also see how their use in heavy goods vehicles or buses also increases the mass of the vehicle.
in addition to environmental efficiency, i believe that the implementation of the directive would also contribute to road safety, as new designs, such as rounded cabs, would increase the driver's visibility and make it easier to spot other road users.
‒ i support this resolution which aims to allow the installation of retractable or folding aerodynamic devices at the rear of the vehicle, thereby enabling significant improvements in the energy performance of the vehicle.
the council accepted waste heat as a type of alternative fuel and added weight for three-axle buses using alternative fuels.
the manufacture of longer cabs is allowed if they are more energy efficient and safer.
the proposal emphasises the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and in particular carbon dioxide emissions, in order to contribute to the objectives of the white paper on transport and to ensure energy efficiency.
i also support the provisions that highlight the need for efficient and high-quality inspection supervision in order to improve energy efficiency and aerodynamics of vehicles, and to improve road safety.
the european long-term investment funds will channel additional resources from professional investors, but also from local units and savers, to long-term projects in the fields of research and development, energy, education and transport.
the eltif provides all member states, including croatia, with the possibility to use the funds to finance sustainable production and infrastructure, education and research projects, which are key tools in achieving sustainable growth, high employment and competitiveness.
‒ in order to achieve sustainable and smart growth for the european economy as a whole, i supported the supplementary report on the european long-term investment funds.
‒ long-term financing is a key tool to enable the european economy to return to a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the europe 2020 strategy, high employment and competitiveness, and to build the economy of tomorrow in a way that is less prone to systemic risks and more resilient.
‒ european long-term investment funds are certainly a financing model that can effectively deliver long-term projects with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it is important to emphasise that investment in the real economy across europe, as well as in individual member states, can only be stimulated if favourable conditions and a stable investment climate are created that will encourage entrepreneurs to take further steps towards economic and infrastructure objectives.
economic development therefore presupposes that entrepreneurs can operate in a healthy business environment that will not be burdened by huge bureaucracy and regulations, but also the development of other financing models that will provide business entities with stability and predictability in addition to investment funds.
the successful development of small and medium-sized enterprises (representing 98% of enterprises in the eu) under conditions of free competition is one of the basic conditions for job creation, sustainable growth, innovation and investment in the european union.
encouraging a culture of innovative competition helps to generate employment, economic growth, investment and to promote future-oriented sectors such as the digital economy and the energy sector.
i would like to pay particular attention to the energy market in the european union.
furthermore, affordability, sustainability and safety should be key elements in addressing the current fragmentation of the market and increasing its competitiveness.
at present, the european single market is less successful than the us in terms of energy costs, with a price dispersion of 31% compared to 22% in the us.
in this respect, croatia as a new member of the union with its natural wealth of renewable energy resources can significantly contribute to improving the overall energy picture of the european union.
‒ this report highlights the importance of affordability, sustainability and security of energy supply for the european economy and its competitiveness.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources, including the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources, and to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources.
the mandate of the central bank is to preserve price stability and promote sustainable economic and social progress and employment.
this was timely because, while liberia may now be close to a sustainable ‘zero’, case numbers have unfortunately again been going up in sierra leone and guinea.
the eu has also provided a number of instruments to support the implementation of the unfccc, including the unfccc sustainable development goals, the unfccc sustainable development goals, the unfccc sustainable development goals, the unfccc sustainable development goals, the unfccc sustainable development goals, the unfccc sustainable development goals, and the unfccc sustainable development goals.
we need to use development aid to invest in the long-term development of sustainable health and education systems.
finally, we must insist on promoting good governance, institutional capacity building and the rule of law in order to promote sustainable development.
furthermore, montenegro needs to implement the public administration reform strategy and strengthen administrative capacity, tackle politicisation, increase transparency, and improve the business environment.
we are talking here about renewable energy, about the need for green energy, and i agree that the big problem is the over-number of possible dams in the balkans.
however, montenegro can produce a lot of green energy that italy needs, because italy does not have good energy sources, and so i ask you, do you agree with me that we need to find a good compromise between the exploitation of green energy in the balkans that can be useful for eu members?
what i want to emphasise is the need for further reforms in serbia, everything that is on the government's agenda and what i would additionally suggest is that serbia's potential be seriously considered, especially in the energy field, and that it be included in the programmes of the new juncker plan, because many of the energy resources that serbia has can be put to good use for the member states as well.
mr president, i want to make a strong statement in support of the commission's ambition to create a single energy union.
i want to warn you in a way that the balkans are full of green renewable energy.
the potential of the balkans is such that we can actually produce a lot of green energy relatively cheaply, and primarily from water sources.
in this way we can help our candidate countries or potential candidates to grow economically, and on the other hand we have a close source of large green energy capacities.
the first topic, the european energy union, has become a priority topic.
we urgently need to create all the conditions for the establishment of a common european energy market.
the eu imports 53% of its energy needs, amounting to about €1 billion a day.
i welcome the fact that the upcoming european council will focus on the energy union, alongside other topics of particular importance such as the european semester and relations with russia.
i believe that this issue should be placed very high on the list of priorities of the european union, because a coordinated and coherent approach at union level will make it easier and faster to achieve our common, rather ambitious energy goals.
the political reality is that, in addition to security, energy has become the oxygen for democracy, so it is high time that we upgraded the political integration of the european union to include energy integration.
‒ the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), in accordance with the provisions of article xiv of the fao constitution, was approved at the 1949 session of the fao conference and entered into force in 1952. the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose objective is to promote the development, conservation and optimum exploitation of living marine resources and their rational management as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black sea.
i believe that it is essential to ensure the sustainable and coordinated exploitation of marine resources and ecosystems in order to achieve their long-term and balanced conservation.
in this context, it is important to clearly articulate the overarching objective of the biosocial, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources and to better define the responsibilities of the general commission and the relevant sanctions.
‒ this amendment to the agreement sets a clear general objective of the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources and provides new definitions of terms necessary for a correct interpretation of the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean.
in this sense, the new agreement covers the basic components of the common fisheries policy relating to: maximising sustainable yield, protecting ecosystems and applying the precautionary principle, reducing discards and combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
as croatia is a party to the agreement, i believe that a clearer regulation of these areas will contribute to a better implementation of a fisheries policy aimed at greater yield sustainability and ecosystem protection, and at the same time allow better communication of the exceptions and needs of specific mediterranean areas such as the croatian islands or the islands in the aegean sea.
‒ the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose objective is to promote the development, conservation and optimum exploitation of living marine resources and their rational management as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
in this context, the new agreement covers the basic components of the common fisheries policy relating to the objective of maximum sustainable yield, ecosystems and precautionary approach, reducing discards and combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
this is primarily for small-scale fishermen who are completely marginalised by the existing system, even though it is a tradition and a way of life, not a disruption of the ecosystem and a profitable activity.
i believe that this amendment creates a more convincing and better picture of the agreement itself because it sets clear objectives in terms of biological, social, economic policy of the sea and sustainable development.
the agreement covers the basic elements of normal fishing procedures relating to maximum sustainable yield, the fight against all types of poaching and the reduction of fish arrivals.
the aim of this agreement is primarily to protect the 'blue ribbon', which is a long-term strategy and to support the sustainable development of the marine and coastal sector as a whole.
so i reiterate that we all need to insist on smart and sustainable growth and development in accordance with nature and human needs.
the aim of the new agreement is to set a clear overall objective of biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of natural resources.
in this context, the new agreement integrates the fundamental objectives of maximum sustainable yield, ecosystems, reducing discharges, combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and i therefore support it.
the commission, on behalf of the european union, invites the council to adopt a decision approving the amended treaty establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, known as the regional fisheries management organisation, with the aim of promoting the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
the revised agreement revises the structure and content of the existing agreement and sets clear targets for the biological, ecological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of natural resources.
it also integrates the fundamental elements of the common fisheries policy in terms of maximum sustainable yield and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in view of the common interest in the development and proper use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and black sea, and the conservation and sustainable use of marine resources and the protection of marine ecosystems, it is recommended that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of this modified agreement, which i personally support.
job creation and the development of businesses and entrepreneurship represent smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for the european union.
the budget shall highlight the recovery of jobs, enterprises and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union.
this will only be possible if better coordination of national and eu policies is achieved and sufficient space and support is provided for innovation and research, the development of better transport and energy routes and, ultimately, the achievement of a more globally competitive european economy.
the european union is committed to the development of the union's energy sector, and the eu is committed to the development of the energy sector in the union.
montenegro should be actively involved in the development of regional energy policy and strongly encourage the interconnection of energy systems in the south-east europe area.
good connectivity and the development of renewable energy sources are the foundation on which montenegro can successfully develop its economy and strengthen its energy security.
‒ i support this report because it encourages the government to implement sustainable economic reforms, including legal provisions on mechanisms to protect market competition, foster competitiveness and overcome structural deficiencies, address the problems of the large informal sector, and improve the business environment in general.
furthermore, i would like to highlight the problem of the polarizing climate in the country, the deteriorating relationship between the opposition and the ruling.
‒ i support this report and welcome the fact that the country continues to make positive progress in improving the business environment and its move from 31st in 2013 to 30th in the world bank's ranking in 2014. however, it has often been found that contractual obligations are met with difficulty and that frequent legal changes without adequate consultation pose serious obstacles to the creation of a business environment.
at the same time, i would stress the importance of making progress on labour law and strengthening social dialogue, and the need to further improve the business environment by supporting smes, reducing disparities between regions and linking research and development institutions with the business and employment sectors.
calls on the government and all political parties to work towards improving relations in order to maintain political stability, establish sustainable constructive political cooperation and accelerate the implementation of the european agenda; recalls that the foundations of democracy rest on compromise, stresses the need to improve the transparency of the accession process and participation in it, stresses that the issue of the post-election boycott should be resolved in a spirit of shared responsibility of the government and opposition to the smooth functioning of parliament, calls on the vice-president of the commission/high representative to work with all parties to improve the political dialogue; condemns also any form of unlawful surveillance and calls for publications and reports to be made, calls for an independent investigation into the surveillance carried out and all allegations thereof, respecting the principles of transparency, impartiality and the presumption of innocence, reiterates the importance of respecting the fundamental principle of freedom of expression and calls on all political actors to engage in constructive dialogue in order to maintain focus on the strategic priorities of the country and its citizens.
serbia has considerable economic potential in developing waste management, as well as in building and developing a green energy policy.
particularly worrying is the overreliance on coal as the main source of energy in the energy structure.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the light of the union's energy policy objectives.
investing in education, research and development, fostering innovation, modernisation, a cheaper source of energy are important to achieve productivity and competitiveness.
i also believe that alternatives to bank financing are needed, in particular by improving the business environment for venture capital.
i call for reforms to enable a new entrepreneurial climate that encourages new businesses, new investment and innovation, whereby investment can be seen as a key factor in attracting financial capital to the european economy.
i believe that alternatives to bank financing are needed, in particular improving the business environment for venture capital, promoting credit unions, but also generally creating the conditions for an efficient allocation of capital through the capital market.
‒ i believe that we need to provide entrepreneurs with an enabling and relaxed business environment in order to find long-term solutions that will enable their stability and liquidity.
the current downward trend in investment needs to be reversed by common incentives for a sustainable and competitive economy, which implies accompanying measures such as the elimination of unnecessary administration and red tape.
global socioeconomic challenges will be a major factor in achieving more effective social policies aimed at ensuring sustainable growth and competitiveness of the european economy.
the implementation of the circular economy principle in public policy-making would create a whole range of new jobs and ensure sustainable growth for croatia and the european union.
europe must be committed to a social market economy model that guarantees sustainable growth in order to secure jobs for the next generation instead of debt.
we call for ambitious, expansionary economic and fiscal policies, within the existing rules of the stability and growth pact, to foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and the creation of quality jobs.
‒ one of the important structural reforms at eu level is the strengthening of the single market, from the building of the banking union to the digital and energy single market.
it is necessary to strengthen the management of the single market within the european semester as a horizontal priority of the different union policies, maintaining the necessary balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions, and to improve the quality of transposition into national legislation, implementation and application of the rules governing the single market in order to make it practical and economically functional.
‒ protecting children and ensuring a safe environment for their development is one of the primary objectives of the european union and its member states.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the digital revolution on the digital environment, including on the impact of the digital revolution on the digital economy, and on the impact of the digital revolution on the digital economy.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources.
the partnership approach and the exchange of information between member states and the raising of public awareness of this problem contribute to creating a safe environment for children, which is one of the primary roles of the european union.
the russian authorities have not only the duty to conduct a full and transparent investigation into the murder of boris nemtsov, but they also have to put an end to the climate of suspicion, hatred and intolerance for diversity of opinion.
the second, equally important reason for the new strategic rethinking of the european union's foreign and security policy is the deterioration in the european union's environment, which, as the report says, is unprecedented since the very beginning of european integration.
following the outbreak of conflict in ukraine, the security environment in the european union has deteriorated significantly, while relations between brussels and moscow are at their lowest level since the end of the cold war.
the same principle should apply in relations with non-eu countries we must not impose on other peoples solutions that are rightly rejected by non-european peoples in general as an ideology of waste and disregard for the fundamental right to life.
so problems in terms of security, in terms of immigration and human trafficking, in terms of control of both the energy and financial resources of a country - i repeat - potentially rich, which would not need, as it did not need in the past, to rely on international support, but clearly in these conditions the population is extremely suffering from a very dramatic humanitarian situation - and also on this the european union is doing a lot and is ready to do more - and the further level of consequences for the neighbouring countries, starting with tunisia, but also egypt, algeria and the european union itself, as well as the countries bordering to the south - we think of the whole sub-saharan area - not only in terms of consequences and security but also in terms of political dynamics in the region, because we know very well one of the main problems with which we have to deal is not only the total division or collapse of the region, but also the risk of war, so to speak, on one side of the country, not only on the other, for the sake of libya, but also for the potential of war in the region.
the citizens of mali really need eu solidarity to ensure a life of dignity through sustainable development.
development cooperation between mali and the eu was renewed in 2013 after the government showed a willingness to engage in political dialogue, and it is now important that all parties show seriousness in reaching a peace agreement and return mali to the path of stability and sustainable development.
the security environment has deteriorated, there is the problem of isis, with attempts to export terrorism and endanger eu citizens.
‒ the annual report by mr brok on the european union's foreign and security policy points out that the union has not used its power to shape an international environment that has deteriorated drastically because of the internal crisis.
we need to take a clear stance on important issues such as terrorism, migration, energy security and relations with russia and our eastern and southern neighbours.
‒ the security environment around the eu has deteriorated dramatically due to numerous new and long-running crises, particularly in its immediate neighbourhood, where the order, stability and security of europe, based on international law, is facing its greatest challenge since the start of the european integration process.
i would like to highlight in particular a very important part of the report which recalls that energy is increasingly being used as an instrument of foreign policy and that energy cooperation is the cornerstone of european integration.
the political reality is that, in addition to security, energy has become the oxygen for democracy, so it is high time that we upgraded the political integration of the european union to include energy integration.
that is why i support this report and agree that the political, economic and financial means of the eu and the member states must come together to, among other things, face the new political and security environment, protect european values and interests and support security, democratisation, the rule of law and the development of the eu's neighbourhood.
the security environment around the eu has deteriorated dramatically, especially in its immediate neighbourhood, where we are facing our greatest challenge to date since the start of the european integration process.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on sustainable fishing for hake because it highlights the problems of overfishing and the problems of biological sustainability and of the high-quality fishery, given the lack of scientific data on hake stocks, but also the various alarming studies on the state of the stocks despite the measures taken by the commission in the past.
this resolution sets out the preconditions and calls on the commission to take the necessary measures to conserve gillnets and to ensure sustainable fishing, both recreational and professional.
‒ i support the european parliament's resolution on the sustainable exploitation of seabirds because it speaks of the need to protect this species from overfishing and of measures that must be based on scientific evidence.
however, different ecological conditions and current fishing practices in different geographical areas of the cod fishery result in greater or lesser pressures on the sustainability of the species.
together, the european institutions and the member states must create a multiannual management plan for cod to bring the stock above the maximum sustainable yield and to protect this special and valuable fish species.
‒ i support the european parliament's resolution on sustainable crab fishing, as despite the measures taken earlier by the commission, various studies show a worrying status of crab stocks, their mortality rate is still very high and they are a late-maturing and slow-growing species.
it is important to emphasise that in the long term all stocks should be exploited at a level that allows them to produce the highest sustainable yield and, in this regard, it is necessary for the commission to adopt a multiannual management plan for hake and to involve in its preparation professional and recreational fishermen and an advisory council.
i supported this resolution on the sustainable exploitation of hake and agree that measures for the management of hake fisheries need to be adopted at european level in order to protect this species and bring stocks to levels above or below the maximum sustainable yield.
the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf) recommends reducing the fishing mortality of gillnets by approximately 60% and therefore the need to create a plan for the sustainability of stocks and the balance between recreational and commercial fisheries, which has become increasingly popular in recent years.
venezuela has the largest energy reserves in latin america, but its citizens suffer from shortages of basic foodstuffs and doubled food prices.
several of your colleagues from poland are constantly talking about how we need to think carefully about whether and how to get rid of coal as an energy source.
i ask you what energy needs do you see for poland and how do you think other energy sources should be introduced in poland?
mr president, i have already expressed my support on several occasions for the common energy market and the energy union.
i want to encourage the interest in building tanap and tap, because i think it's a good way to solve the energy problem of a part of the european union countries.
i repeat and warn the commission - the balkans have tremendous potential, thousands of megawatts for renewable hydroelectricity.
mr. president, we see that the spring summit has covered a lot of issues, from ttip, energy union, libya, tunisia, ukraine.
many topics were inevitable and on the agenda, but you have focused on one topic, the energy union, and it is good practice to focus on one topic.
the energy union is a topic that concerns us all at the moment, but it is not just about the more than 500 million european union citizens who are interested in this topic, it is also about investing in energy and it is very important to empower investors to make sure that europe can be invested safely.
i welcome the conclusions of the european council meeting confirming the eu's commitment to creating an energy union based on energy security, solidarity and trust, an integrated european energy market and energy efficiency that contributes to consumption reduction, economic decarbonisation, research, innovation and competitiveness.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
it is also important to align existing national legislation with eu energy law and to ensure its full implementation and application, in particular when it comes to the purchase of gas from external suppliers.
the development of a more efficient, flexible market model should be accompanied by enhanced regional cooperation and help in the integration of renewable energy sources.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of energy.
i hope that the union's energy policies will be included in the revision of the neighbourhood policy and will be a strong factor in the continuation of the enlargement policy.
in this context, potential policy measures in the areas of public finance management, anti-corruption and transparency, the business environment, energy sector reform and financial sector reform are being explored and will be discussed with our ukrainian partners.
i support the steps already taken and express the hope that such active measures will lead to sustainable, long-term employment which is an important factor in the recovery of any economy.
the new government began to implement reforms to stabilize the political situation, financial reforms and the fight against corruption, as well as reforms of the tax system and the energy sector.
the loss of these revenues leaves member states with less resources to invest in order to stimulate economic growth, development and employment, and leaves the european union with less resources needed to further develop and create the latest initiatives, such as the capital markets union, the single european energy market, the digital single market.
i supported this report because i believe that better implementation of tax rules and cooperation between member states is needed to prevent aggressive tax planning, tax avoidance and tax fraud, while creating a favourable business environment for companies and reducing the additional burden for all citizens who pay their taxes honestly.
this report, among other solutions to tackle fiscal dumping, proposes innovation and a shift to an environmental tax, which i strongly welcome, as it recognises the potential of the environment to grow the economy and create new jobs.
mr president, i welcome the commission's announcement that it will be an active partner and cooperate with the national authorities using all available measures with the aim of adopting the programme as soon as possible after the adoption of this amended council regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020. the resources to be carried over to 2015 for economic, social and territorial cohesion and sustainable growth and natural resources should certainly be spent for that purpose and i hope that there will be no change in the multiannual financial framework to reallocate those resources for other purposes.
the establishment and financing of social security is a member state responsibility and the four basic general objectives, also identified by the european commission in the context of the general challenge of modernising social security systems, should be: to make work pay and income secure, to achieve pension security and sustainability of pension systems, to promote social inclusion, to ensure high quality and sustainability of healthcare for all.
the main objectives identified by the commission in the context of the general challenge of modernising social security systems are: making work pay and income secure, achieving pension security and sustainability of pension systems, promoting social inclusion, ensuring high quality and sustainability of healthcare.
the tfeu advocates the establishment of an employment committee to seek to establish a sustainable european employment strategy.
the main objective is to establish a macroeconomic policy that will implement economic reforms and subsequently implement them in a sustainable manner.
the commission should be able to take into account the specific needs of the union industry in the context of the union's policy on the environment.
i expect the same positive impact on fishermen and the sustainable development of their activities from this rapporteur's proposal and will therefore support it in the vote.
i'd like to believe that mandatory landing is as sustainable as fishing.
but i'm convinced that this discussion of the advanced generation, which is about using waste, is something that we need to focus on.
i really do call for us to invest a significant amount of money all together in research to turn waste and all that we can from waste into advanced biofuels.
so, in addition to endangering the environment, we are also endangering the economy, because we are entering a vicious circle, and that is our tourism.
i would like to ask you about this very topic that you spoke about at the end, about the cross-border pollution that comes to the coast of croatia from albania and via the neretva from bosnia and herzegovina.
do you agree with me that the european commission should, in its negotiations with the republic of albania, which is a candidate country, and also with bosnia and herzegovina, make it a condition for further progress to resolve the issue of crossborder pollution coming across the adriatic in its negotiations with albania and bosnia and herzegovina?
so we will insist, and i have said this many times in the environment committee, that these details have to be included in the negotiating chapters and it is very important that we have equal rules because if we do not care equally we will not protect the sea.
these are the ones that aren't in the environment, but the vast majority of them end up in the wild.
this is the first time in 14 years that binding measures have been introduced at eu level to reduce waste generation, and we should certainly welcome this.
i was very close to that industry and i'm very close to that industry today, and i have to say that i'm certainly not going to be advocating for that industry here, but i'm going to be advocating for this very debate, because lightweight plastic bags have proven to be a serious environmental problem.
i hope it will not turn into a carpet like the one in the pacific, but we have a problem of crossborder pollution from albania and bosnia and herzegovina and i ask you as the commission to help negotiate with albania and bosnia and herzegovina.
there is a board meeting next week at the international maritime organisation in london, which i will be attending as a member of the environmental protection committee, and it is dominated by the very subject we are talking about here today.
in any case, it is good that there is a monitoring, reporting system and that it will be implemented in such a way that the shipowner, or company, for each voyage has to calculate the amount of carbon dioxide emitted and has to report once a year to the european commission and the flag state on the amount of carbon dioxide emitted.
i hope that this new sulphur directive and the one we're talking about today will help reduce the amount of emissions.
so when we talk about this regulation, i think that of course it's absolutely necessary to regulate this part of transportation, because this part of transportation is also polluting the environment, polluting our planet, and we need to measure not only the co2 issue but we need to measure other gases as well.
the aim of introducing these measures is to ensure that personnel are qualified and adequate for the job according to medical standards in order to minimise risks and threats to the safety of life and property at sea, as well as to the marine environment as a whole.
it is necessary to ensure that personnel on board fishing vessels are adequately qualified and carry out appropriate duties so that potential threats to the safety of life and/or property at sea, to the marine environment, whenever possible, are minimised.
the amended budget no 2 for 2015 provides for an increase of eur 16 billion in commitment appropriations for the structural funds under economic, social and territorial cohesion (sub-title 1.b) and the programmes under sustainable development (title 2), security and citizenship (title 3).
the reprogrammed funds should be directed towards long-term sustainable investments.
we need to identify public policies that will deliver real and sustainable growth for the european economy.
the commission should also be able to use the existing instruments to support the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and to support the union's efforts to achieve a sustainable development strategy.
we are clear that the ultimate goal in managing budgetary resources is to reduce social and economic disparities and to promote sustainable development.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and on the environment as a whole.
mr president, i have already said once in this chamber that i want europe to remain at the forefront of positive global policies aimed at mitigating climate change and that i am proud to live in a society that takes this threat to civilisation seriously, a society that leads global efforts with its commitment and responsibility and a society that delivers on its promises.
‒ i believe that, in the case of biofuels, we need to take a step forward towards a solution that will have a positive climate impact and will not increase competition with the food industry.
after two rounds of trialogue with the council, no progress was made in finding a compromise on the fuel quality and renewable energy directives.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, taking into account the environmental improvements, taking into account the directive's objectives of using 10% renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020 and achieving a 6% greenhouse gas emission reduction by 2020 for road transport fuels.
i support the process of limiting the contribution of conventional biofuels to such targets, and improving biofuel production in terms of less greenhouse gas emissions, and greater market access for advanced biofuels.
furthermore, i support the transition to a biofuels policy for greenhouse gas emission reduction that takes into account land-use change emissions criteria.
‒ one of the eu's main objectives for 2020 is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to 1990. the objective is also to increase energy efficiency by 20%, provided that 20% of the total energy is sourced from renewable energy sources.
the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities on the draft law on energy efficiency.
data for croatia are available from 2005 and the country's efforts by 2012 have led to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of just over 13%.
the share of energy in final consumption drawn from renewable energy sources was 16,8% in 2012 and 18% in 2013. the national action plan for renewable energy defines targets for three sectors: electricity, transport and heating and cooling.
i support the recommendation of mr torvalds, because we need stronger incentives for biofuels and renewable energy to meet the 2020 targets.
‒ the original commission proposal was to amend the fuel quality directive 98/70/ec (fqd) and renewable energy directive (directive 2009/28/ec) with the aim of encouraging the transition to biofuels and delivering significant greenhouse gas savings including iluc while protecting existing investments.
the primary objective was to limit the contribution of conventional biofuels towards the targets set out in directive 2009/28/ec, to improve the ghg performance of biofuels from production processes, to encourage greater market penetration for advanced biofuels and to report estimated iluc emissions.
‒ emissions of harmful exhaust gases can cancel out adequate natural gas supplies.
in october 2012, guidelines were issued to control fuel quality, promote the use of energy from renewable sources and switch to the use of biofuels, ensure their sufficient production and as much market entry as possible, in order to protect against harmful emissions.
the commission has also proposed to make the calculation of emissions from the production of biofuels compulsory for the determination of biofuel stocks, and to set a target of a 6% annual yield of first-generation biofuels from renewable energy sources and the introduction of advanced biofuels.
the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a new target of 6% for advanced biofuels by 2020, but has already adopted a binding target of 1,25% for advanced biofuels by 2020, and has supported a long-term policy of investing in sustainable biofuels beyond 2020.
written.
‒ i supported the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive because i believe it is time to start the transition to biofuels, which provide significant greenhouse gas savings and estimated indirect land-use change emissions.
the transition to renewable energy is the foundation of any modern society.
i agree with limiting the share of first-generation biofuels, because they bring the risk of indirect land-use change emissions.
in addition, the promotion of greater market penetration of advanced biofuels and the improvement of greenhouse gas emissions reporting by introducing an obligation to report estimated biofuel emissions related to indirect land use change for member states and fuel suppliers should be welcomed as the main objectives of these directives.
croatia has great potential in the use of renewable energy sources and in reducing energy consumption through the application of energy efficiency.
both contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and environmental protection, and reduce dependence on imported energy.
‒ i supported the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive.
the commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by establishing the criteria for determining the amount of energy from renewable sources to be used in transport.
the commission considers that the objective of the union's energy policy is to achieve a sustainable and sustainable energy mix, which is based on the principle of sustainable development.
the greens insisted on biofuels a few years ago and then they realized that crops are not the best way to produce biofuels, and to move to a second generation, which comes from waste, new plants need to be built because you can't use the same plants to process crops and waste.
‒ i voted in favour of a european parliament and council directive amending directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources to ensure that the share of energy in all forms of transport in 2020 represents at least 10% of final energy consumption.
i believe that steps should be taken to facilitate member states and recommendations for additional measures to achieve energy efficiency and to ensure energy savings in the transport sector.
the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and the promotion of biofuels and renewable energy are key issues for europe's future, both in environmental and economic terms.
mr. president, this is the final step in the adoption of a directive that seeks to address a major environmental problem.
lightweight plastic bags often end up in the sea or in nature instead of in the regular waste disposal cycle.
lightweight plastic bags that are used once and then thrown away are an example of great environmental pollution.
the fact is, plastic bags are not dangerous to the environment, they pollute it.
implementation of this directive will reduce the negative impact on the environment and i am happy to support it.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 94/62/ec as regards the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags, given its major contribution to reducing the negative impact on the environment, in particular in terms of the discharge of such waste into the environment.
‒ over 8 million plastic bags are discarded in the european union every year, most of which end up in the sea, which is why the accumulation of plastic bags in the environment has a highly negative impact on some sectors of the economy such as tourism.
the new plastic bag regulation is therefore a welcome step towards reducing the negative impact on the environment.
paper bags are biodegradable within a year, and canvas bags, in addition to being biodegradable, can be used for years, which contributes to waste reduction and environmental protection, sustainable development and contributes to a change in collective consciousness.
they have long-term environmental and biodiversity impacts, given that over 8 billion plastic bags end up as waste in the european union every year.
the commission will also be able to use the data from the european commission's annual report on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment and sustainable development to assess the impact of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development.
‒ i voted in favour of this directive which promotes the reduction of negative environmental impacts, in particular in terms of the disposal of waste into the environment, promotes waste prevention and more efficient use of resources, while limiting negative social and economic impacts.
the directive aims to reduce the consumption of plastic bags thinner than 50 microns (0.05 millimetres) in the european union, of which 90% are discarded after the first use due to irresponsible consumer habits, and 8 billion bags are turned into waste every year.
except for the ecr, everyone supported the deal and it's about raising awareness for environmental protection.
the dumping of plastic bags into the environment causes pollution and exacerbates the problem of waste in seas, oceans and rivers, threatening aquatic ecosystems around the world.
plastic bags thinner than 50 microns, which account for the vast majority of the total number of plastic bags used in the union, are less suitable for reuse than thicker plastic bags, which makes them more prone to becoming waste and more likely to be discarded into the environment.
‒ the adverse effects of climate change, which are partly the result of poor waste management, are unavoidable today.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the waste prevention and management legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the waste prevention and management legislation.
the first priority should be to focus on the methods of proper waste management and sorting, rather than creating an additional administrative burden for the member states, and that is why i voted in favour of abstention.
‒ shipping is the only transport sector not included in the eu's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
at union level, the maritime sector currently emits around 3% of all greenhouse gases and this figure is expected to grow as the economy continues to grow.
it is necessary to establish a unified system for the monitoring, reporting and verification of greenhouse gases by seagoing vessels in order to have accurate and actionable data on their environmental and energy performance.
this is one of the prerequisites for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in shipping and reducing fuel consumption.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, verification and reporting of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec, as it is a proposal to introduce a system for monitoring and reporting carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and thereby contribute to environmental protection.
‒ one of the targets of the european union 2020 strategy is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport by 40%.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the marine environment and the marine environment in the light of the findings of the review of the union's maritime policy.
i support the recommendation of mr farija and believe that the introduction of an emissions monitoring, reporting and verification system will result in better future union climate change decisions and will be an impetus for a global debate on this issue.
‒ emissions from international shipping today account for 3% of global greenhouse gas emissions and 4% of eu greenhouse gas emissions.
the eu's climate and energy package sets an ambitious target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors, however there is no legal obligation for the shipping sector to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and no binding targets have been agreed for shipping.
as other transport sectors are covered by mandatory greenhouse gas emission reductions, it was necessary to apply the same rules to maritime transport.
the establishment of a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying co2 emissions will apply to ships of more than 5000 tonnes.
‒ i support the report by mr farija on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, verification and reporting of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec.
given that maritime transport is the only type of transport not included in the european union's guidelines and targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions, and that this type of transport is responsible for 3% of total carbon dioxide emissions, i also support the rapporteur's proposal to accept the council's position without amendment.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of proportionality to the reduction of co2 emissions from ships by 2020 and to the reduction of emissions from ships by 2030. the system for monitoring and measuring co2 emissions from ships at european level is necessary to collect information on both the efficiency of ships and to encourage reductions in co2 emissions and fuel consumption, which is why i once again support it.
the introduction of fuel consumption controls may have an additional impact on climate change caused by excessive carbon dioxide emissions.
the proposal is to make shipboard documentation mandatory by july 2015 on fuel status, the routes the ships travel and the cargo they carry, with the aim of reducing annual co2 emissions by 2% and fuel savings of eur 1,2 billion by 2030. i support this proposal and its further consideration.
‒ i supported the report on co2 emissions from the maritime sector because maritime transport is the only sector not covered by the eu's greenhouse gas reduction commitments.
the objective of that regulation is to provide a framework for a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from ships of more than 5 000 gross tonnage.
the current lack of monitoring and reporting makes it impossible to have a clear and precise view of the state of emissions from maritime transport in order to reduce them.
greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport at eu level account for 4% of total emissions.
ferries like the marco polo will prove inefficient in terms of fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which provides for the monitoring and verification of co2 emissions from transport which are not in line with eu objectives, which would lead to negative impacts on climate change.
the exact amount of co2 and other eu-related greenhouse gases in maritime transport is not known due to the lack of monitoring and reporting of such emissions.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the marine environment and the marine environment in the light of the experience gained in the implementation of the measures.
i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec.
the main objective of the directive is to establish a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying (mvr system) co2 emissions from maritime transport, with the aim of achieving a global mvr system.
globally, ship emissions are very high, and they are also a growing source of greenhouse gases that cause climate change and contribute to the decline of marine biodiversity.
ships over 5,000 gt emit 90% of all carbon dioxide emissions.
monitoring co2 emissions, i.e.
collecting information, would allow the company to increase its energy efficiency and reduce co2, which is a goal we all need to strive for.
we also have to think about the ambitious eu target we have set, which is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from international shipping by 40% by 2050, or 70% of total co2 emissions in the member states by 2020. that is why i welcome this resolution.
mr president, the marine strategy framework directive is a comprehensive and demanding act that is crucial in implementing a coordinated policy of the member states with the aim of sustainable management of the marine environment based on an ecosystem approach.
the management of commercial stocks and of species that are subject to by-catch is crucial for the sustainability of ecosystems.
at a time when the fishing opportunities far outweigh the ecological balance and the catch is greater than the potential for natural recovery of the species, without respecting the ecosystem approach to fisheries management we will not achieve the desired objectives of good environmental status by 2020, nor ensure sustainability in this important frontier economy that should ensure future generations the benefits we enjoy today.
the plan aims to ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod, herring and mackerel stocks in the baltic sea and to ensure the stability of fisheries in accordance with all aspects of ecosystem and environmental protection.
it is also important because these three species - cod, herring and papalina in the baltic sea - account for over 94% of catches in recent years, and there are risks of overfishing and the consequences for the ecosystem of the baltic sea's closure.
this report aims to ensure a balanced exploitation of the stock, taking into account the interaction and impact of these three species on each other and the sustainability of the entire ecosystem.
detailed scientific research is needed to establish the current state of the baltic sea fish species, their role in the ecosystem and to determine the period during which fishing is prohibited.
as this is a long process, we can conclude that this is just the beginning of creating a single marine ecosystem management plan, which should be an example for other seas.
this is the first multiannual plan to serve as a model for all future ones under the eu's common fisheries policy, as the primary objective is to protect fisheries above the level that makes them sustainable, based on the principle of sustainability of the overall ecosystem and management of fish stocks.
the reports on the current state of fish species and their interrelations in the ecosystem show that there is a need to revise the rules adopted in 2009. a plan is needed that has three priority points: 1. the biological relationship between the three main species of fish: cod, herring and parrotfish; 2. the exact determination of the maximum catch that does not threaten the reproductive stock units; and 3. the catch determined by the time period.
the union has a conservation obligation, including the maintenance or restoration of populations of harvested species at levels that can produce the highest sustainable yield.
the objective of that plan should be to restore, achieve and maintain populations of the species concerned above levels that can produce the highest sustainable yield for the stocks concerned while minimising the impact on other species such as seabirds and on the wider marine environment.
the correct management and protection of the renewable resources of the sea requires that account be taken of the biotechnological, technical, economic, legal and all other aspects which have a decisive influence on the development of fisheries.
in recent years, there has been a massive poaching of juveniles, threatening the diversity of the species and devastating the undersea environment.
the current exploitation rates for some of those stocks are not in line with the achievement of the maximum sustainable yield and it is necessary to find the best possible solution that will ensure the sustainable exploitation of the stocks without harming fishermen by introducing unrealistic quotas.
i therefore support the proposal to establish a management plan for cod, herring and papalina stocks in the baltic, as the plan should ensure sustainable fisheries while taking account of biological and environmental benefits.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulations (ec) no 850/98, (ec) no 2187/2005, (ec) no 1967/2006, (ec) no 1098/2007, (ec) no 254/2002, (ec) no 2347/2002 and (ec) no 1224/2009 and repealing regulation (ec) no 1434/98 as regards the landing obligation, although i consider that such a proposal is very difficult to apply in particular to small fishermen, but i want to believe that both landings also mean sustainability in fisheries.
the aim is to end the practice of discarding fish and to contribute to the conservation of the marine ecosystem, eliminating unwanted or unnecessary catches along the way.
‒ these changes represent a step forward towards the efficient and sustainable use of the marine ecosystem.
the way that member countries dispose of surplus fish has for years been a source of outrage to the public and to environmental organizations.
the implementation of technical measures in fisheries and controls is key to sustainable development and to prevent further fishing.
i supported the commission's proposal on landing catches as it is complementary to the european parliament's proposal of february 2013 on the progressive implementation of landings with a view to reducing waste and preserving marine flora and fauna, which entered into force in the member states on 1 january 2015. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union's fishing fleet and on the union's fishing industry.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
the european film industry has the potential to develop a cultural and creative sector in europe that would certainly help promote european cultural diversity and heritage, but also, most importantly, what concerns croatia and many european countries, would contribute to achieving sustainable growth and job creation that would benefit other economic sectors and would give europe a competitive advantage at global level.
in the end, i did not support the strategy, i abstained, because the amendments of the committee on the environment, public health and safety were passed.
these proposals, in my opinion, as well as in the opinion of the czech experts, give a strong preference to the environmental element of forest protection over the interests of the owners, who must be able to make a living from the forest in some way and therefore have a certain economic viability.
wood is a renewable resource, but it is often under-exploited and it is necessary to ensure an intelligent and sustainable use of this raw material.
forests are far more important; they are europe's lungs, a source of energy, a guardian of climate and biodiversity, and they should be respected for their importance.
mr president, the economic use of forests must always be geared towards the sustainability of forests and forested areas, in order to preserve their quality and economic potential for future generations.
forests can be a generator of green economy in rural areas, a source of timber construction and a source of renewable energy.
forests are also an important element in the fight against climate change, and this contribution of forests, although well known, has not been adequately valued.
forests are also the richest reservoir of biodiversity, and the ways in which forests are managed have a significant impact on the quality of the environment and, ultimately, on human health and well-being.
in view of the social, economic and environmental role of forests, it is of the utmost importance to invest in research and development in this sector, to manage forests sustainably, to promote their multifunctional role and to use resources efficiently.
the increasing use of energy sources, wood biomass and the growing need for wood require even more responsible and sustainable forest management.
this report raises awareness of the importance of the forestry sector for the european union, and croatia, with its scientific achievements and expertise, which are based on a long-standing forestry tradition, can make a major contribution to the sustainable development of this industry as a driver of employment, year-on-year growth and the survival of rural areas, which is our common goal.
this is particularly the case with regard to the decision of the rapporteur in the agri committee to disregard the opinion of the environment committee.
as a result, the strategy will have a holistic approach with more emphasis on sustainability and the wise use of resources, which i can certainly support.
the text of the strategy is good enough to promote this important economic sector (3.5 million employees) and an important resource for maintaining the local and global ecosystem.
it is important to ensure intelligent and sustainable management of forest resources.
forests in the republic of croatia are known for their great biodiversity and the fact that 95% of the forest area is natural, which is the result of a long forestry tradition of sustainable management.
in particular in those countries, but also across the union, it is of the utmost importance to manage forests in a sustainable way.
this will create added value at local, regional, european and international level in terms of guaranteeing jobs in rural areas, contributing to a bio-based society, having a positive impact on human health, but also protecting the environment and climate, as european forests currently absorb and store around 10% of the union's carbon emissions.
‒ i supported the adoption of a new forestry strategy because i believe that an effective european approach is essential to deal with current challenges and potential threats that know no borders in a sustainable and competent way.
as the shadow rapporteur of the green/efa group for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on that report, i am extremely pleased with the amendments i have proposed.
citizens of croatia have lived in symbiosis with forests for centuries and it is necessary to maintain this relationship on the principles of sustainable development.
the use of wood and other recovered wood products as renewable and environmentally friendly raw materials on the one hand and sustainable forest management on the other hand play an important role in achieving eu social policy objectives such as energy transition, climate change mitigation and adaptation, and the europe 2020 and biodiversity goals.
forests are our oxygen factories, our best tool in the fight against climate change, they protect against soil erosion and help to preserve and regulate geographical climates.
while recognising the different ownership models in the member states and highlighting the importance and multi-purpose role of forestry as an ecological, economic and social resource, the need for increased cooperation in tackling cross-border challenges such as forest fires, pests and illegal logging is also underlined.
the report shows that of the total amount paid in 2013 under this policy group (eur 45 311 million), 96% went to regional policy, eur 1 059 million to mobility and transport and eur 758 million to energy.
another area of imbalance that i would like to mention is the energy sector.
the use of mergers in the energy sector is primarily focused on large projects with a low emphasis on local energy solutions.
i would like to call for a bottom-up approach to energy infrastructure development to ensure universal access to energy for all by 2030.
written.
i agree with the commission's view that albania should be helped to strengthen its administrative capacity as soon as possible and to implement in an economically sustainable manner all the reforms necessary for the country's integration into the eu.
the cooperation between albania and croatia is of particular importance in economic and political terms, with infrastructure and energy projects linking the two countries being of particular importance.
coming from the very south of croatia, dubrovnik, i am particularly concerned about the waste problem in albania.
albania has no developed waste management system, and we have often witnessed an environmental disaster when waste from albania is dumped into the adriatic sea.
at present, the waste from albania is ecologically threatening the croatian coast, but it is a potential threat to italy and greece.
this applies to aid for small and medium-sized enterprises; research, development and innovation; environmental protection; employment and training; infrastructure and sports aid and regional aid approved by the commission for a given member state.
small and medium-sized enterprises, environmental protection and research, development and innovation.
‒ horizontal support in the eu should be the basis for achieving sustainable economic growth, as it is in principle directed at regional development, innovation, research, vocational training, environmental protection, etc.
i welcome this thematic report, but i find it unacceptable that in some cases studies on the assessment of impacts on sustainable development are missing or incomplete.
i believe that before any new agreement is signed, the sustainability impact assessments should be completed and made publicly available.
bearing in mind that the european parliament is the only directly elected body of the european union which, together with the council of ministers, constitutes the legislative power of the european union, as an indispensable institution of the eu, i welcome the objectives of poverty eradication, combating inequalities, creating a sustainable health system and gender equality, as set out in the resolution on the post-2015 development framework.
i also welcome the fact that greenhouse gas emissions from european parliament staff travelling between brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg in 2012 fell by 34% compared to 2006.
written.
farmers, consumers, environmental associations, family associations, ngos, etc.).
to maintain the quality and success of this important function, it is crucial to ensure sustainable and efficient funding and i am therefore pleased that the court of auditors commends the ombudsman's financial management.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013, as after a thorough analysis it was established that the underlying transactions of the said agency were legal and regular.
‒ the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators was established in 2011 under the third energy package with the aim of creating a competitive, sustainable, secure and transparent internal energy market for union citizens.
the court of auditors confirmed in its report the reliability of the agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions for the financial year 2013. on the basis of the court's opinion, i supported the report of mr czarnecki and the european parliament resolution following the decision to close the books of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
‒ the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators is a european institution whose aim is to create a competitive, sustainable, secure and transparent internal energy market for the benefit of all consumers in the eu.
the commission shall act in support of the establishment of common rules and initiatives (by issuing guidelines), take care of the development and maintenance of energy infrastructure and monitor the energy market.
the agency shall be responsible for the implementation of the agency's activities in the field of energy efficiency.
in preparing the numerous instruments for the establishment of a common energy market, the agency cooperates with the eu institutions and their stakeholders, as well as with national energy regulators and european transmission system operators' networks.
the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 was eur 11 930 220, representing an increase of 64,74% compared to 2012. the authority will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union legislation and its implementation in the member states.
in view of the findings of the court of auditors and the importance of the agency's work, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the agency's budget for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013.
written.
‒ the third energy package, which established the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, aims to provide an effective regulatory framework for the development of an open and competitive energy market within the union.
at the opening of the agency, energy commissioner günther oettinger stated that his priority was to remove all barriers to the internal energy market so that energy could flow freely throughout the union.
‒ as the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 expressed its conviction on the reliability of the agency's annual accounts, i support this discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the above-mentioned agency for the year 2013. this report confirms that the agency has implemented a number of measures to improve budget planning procedures by developing and implementing a set of guidelines to be followed by the actors involved in the process.
in addition, there is a confirmation by the court of auditors, in the 'report of the court of auditors' on the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 on the acquisition of assurance that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
the commission notes that the measures are not intended to create a new competitive environment for the union industry.
i welcome the fact that an agreement has been concluded with the authorities of the piedmont region in italy on the premises of the foundation in 2013 guaranteeing the continuation of the foundation's work in the period 2013-2015. i join the congratulations, addressed to the foundation by the committee on employment and social affairs, on the 99% success rate in terms of the implementation of the objectives set out in its four work programmes during the period 2010-2013. the success of the implemented objectives has led to exceptional progress in the development of structural training and upskilling reforms achieved through the turin process and other specific policy analyses undertaken by partner countries, ultimately resulting in the development of national policies that help ensure future sustainability.
the representative actions taken by the centre in terms of cost-effective environmental solutions are welcomed.
the office conducted its own assessment of the implementation status of the internal control standards in march 2013, demonstrating its determination to understand and establish an environment for the implementation of sound internal controls.
in view of the above, i consider that there is no reason to delay the discharge and i agree with the parliament's proposal and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the agency's activities are focused on the development of a european approach to the prevention of and response to emerging threats to the environment, and on the promotion of sustainable development and sustainable development in the union.
the agency's representative actions in terms of cost-effective and good environmental solutions are welcomed.
the echa's task is to ensure the consistent implementation of european chemicals legislation that will take account of human health and the environment and promote innovation and competitiveness.
the representative actions taken by the agency in terms of cost-effective environmental solutions are commendable.
‒ i voted yes to the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 as it allows the agency to continue its work without any disruption as no problems were observed with regard to the rate of transfer of funds in 2013 and the process of reviewing the staff and organisational structure continues, allowing the agency to carry out its work efficiently.
‒ the european environment agency was established in 1990 by council regulation no 1210/90.
since then, the agency has been helping the eu institutions to make high-quality decisions on environmental issues.
the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2013 found that there were no irregularities in the accounts of the european environment agency and i have therefore based that court of auditors' report and endorsed the discharge report for the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
written.
‒ the european environment agency is a key source of information for all actors involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policy, as well as for the general public.
the eea's mission is to help the community and the member states make informed decisions on improving the environment, integrating environmental issues into economic policies and moving towards sustainability, and to coordinate the european environment information and observation network.
in view of the findings and the importance of the agency's work, and bearing in mind that the agency's data are important users, alongside european and national authorities and the business community, academia, non-governmental organisations and other parts of civil society, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
written.
‒ the european environment agency aims to provide high-quality and independent environmental information.
it is a key source of information for all actors, including the general public, involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policy.
the agency assists the community and the member states in making informed decisions on improving the environment by integrating environmental issues into economic policies and by coordinating the european environment information and observation network.
‒ i have supported the discharge of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors confirmed the reliability of the accounting records and approved the closure of the accounts.
according to the financial statements of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, its final budget amounted to eur 49 270 722, representing an increase of 18,16% compared to 2012, where the increase primarily relates to operational expenditure for strategic actions.
the court's annual audit did not identify any major problems with regard to the level of transfers in 2013. the court of auditors' report shows that in 2013, the agency awarded grants under five programmes to associations of european environmental bodies, united nations organisations and national environmental organisations.
‒ i support the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, as mentioned in the title.
i also welcome the court of auditors' report which sets out the regular final annual accounts of the european environment agency for the year 2013 in question.
in view of the above, i welcome the fact that two new ad posts are planned to be opened in 2013 to cover new tasks related to two important themes, namely climate change mitigation and air quality reporting.
the two problems that the european union and the rest of the world are facing are indeed today's problems and it is very important to give them special attention in order to find solutions as soon as possible and to find ways of reducing the negative impact on the environment, because ultimately it affects our lives.
‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, as according to the financial report of the european environment agency (the 'agency') for the financial year 2013, its final budget was increased by 18,16% compared to 2012 and the increase primarily relates to operational expenditure for strategic actions.
in 2013, 2 new ad posts were added to the establishment plan to cover new tasks: climate change mitigation and air quality reporting.
in this year of the european year of development, one of the main debates is about the strategy for appropriate, healthy, sustainable and informed food consumption, and the agency has a key role to play in this debate.
it is important to continue to encourage the agency in its further efforts to establish long-term and sustainable measures to establish internal mechanisms and enhanced content review and greater availability of information and documents on the agency's websites and to further strengthen the policy on prevention and handling of conflicts of interest in order to protect independence and transparency in all areas of the agency's work.
‒ established in 2008, the european institute of innovation and technology aims to promote innovation, sustainable growth and increase the competitiveness of the european union.
‒ the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) was established in 2008 on the initiative of the european commission as an autonomous eu body to promote world-class innovation, sustainable growth and enhance eu competitiveness through the integration of the european innovation area.
as the opinions of the european court of auditors and the competent committee on the environment, public health and food safety have confirmed the legality and regularity of the financial management in all material respects, i trust that the adoption of this decision will be a confirmation of the sound management and operation of the agency.
‒ the importance of safety at sea can be seen from several perspectives - pollution, wildlife and hunting, but also in the light of the fact that maritime transport is one of the deadliest professions, with 24 000 lives lost each year.
the european maritime safety agency shall provide technical support to the union and the member states in the development and implementation of legislation governing maritime safety, pollution from ships and maritime safety.
‒ the european maritime safety agency (emsa) provides technical assistance and support to the union and the member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety and security and pollution related to shipping.
emsa carries out technical inspections, provides maritime information services and responds to marine pollution, and is able to send oil-collecting vessels to any eu country threatened by pollution within hours of a major oil spill.
taking into account the findings of the court of auditors and the observation that the agency should provide an answer to the question of the cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness of its workspace, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and data security for the financial year 2013.
written.
i agree with my colleague sarvam that the authority's role in promoting the stability and security of financial markets and the stability of the financial system and in enabling safe operations in the european securities market is crucial to achieving economic recovery and creating sustainable jobs and growth in europe.
‒ the euratom supply agency was established with the aim of ensuring a regular and unbiased supply of nuclear energy to european users.
the agency's focus is on the sustainability of the nuclear industry and strengthening security of supply.
i believe that europe should build its future on renewable and sustainable energy sources, which nuclear energy is not.
‒ euratom as a mechanism for the development of nuclear energy through a system of redistribution and sale of surplus energy and as a mechanism for financing nuclear projects within the european union is very important for the future of energy and the sustainable development of the union.
i welcome the consistency in the financial statements and that the final budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013 is eur 104 000, the same amount as in 2012. i hope that the development and exploration of this extremely important energy source will progress and help europe in its goal of sustainable energy growth.
the joint trading company was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of increasing the union's competitiveness and sustainability and creating new markets.
the clean sky joint undertaking was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years, with the aim of developing clean air transport technologies to achieve environmental protection and conservation objectives.
‒ clean sky is the largest european aeronautical research programme, implemented as a public-private partnership, and is key to the implementation of environmental objectives, namely the development of new technologies to reduce carbon dioxide and sodium oxide emissions and to reduce aircraft noise.
‒ research and development in nanoelectronics is important for the development and competitiveness of the european industry from semiconductors to nanotubes, with results that have a visible impact on computer performance, increased speed and quality of signal transmission and perhaps even more efficient energy production, if nanoelectronics were properly exploited in the field of solar cells.
‒ the task of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint trading company is to contribute to the implementation of the union strategies, in particular the strategies for safe, clean and efficient energy and smart, green and integrated transport.
‒ the idea behind the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking is to use public-private partnerships to develop hydrogen and fuel cell energy technologies to become commercially viable.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the joint undertaking's activities in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
‒ i voted out of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013, which proposed to postpone the discharge of the joint undertaking due to an identified individual budget shortfall, inadequate handling of conflicts of interest cases, and poor operational procedures for public procurement.
the solution to this paradox was to be found in the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking, which involves the member states of the european union and major economic powers such as the united states, india, japan, russia and china.
‒ iter, which means 'way' in latin, is a joint venture established for international cooperation on one of the world's largest fusion energy projects, which has the potential to provide a sustainable solution not only to european but also to global energy needs.
‒ i support the postponement of the discharge decision for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of the european data protection board.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013. the annual accounts of the joint undertaking shall, in all material respects, present an objective view of its financial position as at 31 december 2013 and shall be in accordance with its financial rules.
it is therefore very important to support the proposal on the monetary funds, as it provides the guidelines for how a united and integrated europe can have a stable and sustainable development of the money market and thus of the economy as a whole.
as regards political dialogue, constructive and sustainable cooperation between the government and the opposition on eu-related reforms is vital.
as regards economic reforms, albania should continue its efforts to increase competitiveness, to improve the business and investment environment, to achieve fiscal consolidation and to address high unemployment and the high level of informality in the economy.
this meant new, higher responsibilities to deliver solid and sustainable results to fulfil each of the key priorities for reform.
first, it is important that albania pursue comprehensive, inclusive and consistent judicial reform, both for the rule of law and for the business environment.
developing a professional, merit-based and depoliticised civil service is key for the sustainable implementation of reforms.
the persistent confrontational political climate damages albania’s image and may hold back the reform process.
it has also taken concrete steps to ensure financial sustainability in the electricity sector.
this should be followed up by further reforms in energy policy.
i would like to ask you, since you have made it clear that bosnia and herzegovina needs help and that bosnia and herzegovina needs investment in the environment.
i am very familiar with the situation in slavonski brod and at the mouth of the neretva river, where we have a great deal of air pollution in slavonski brod, and on the other hand a great deal of pollution in the neretva, which of course flows into the adriatic sea.
do you think that the european union should protect the interests of croatia in this case by investing in environmental protection in bosnia and herzegovina?
madam president, i thank rapporteur predi for accepting my amendments, in particular the reference calling on the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina to comply with the european union's environmental legislation in relation to the problems of crossborder pollution resulting from the operation of the bosanski brod refinery.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, this year we have to embrace change and develop a truly universal and ambitious post-2015 development agenda, aimed at poverty eradication and sustainable development in its three dimensions – economic, social and environmental.
this process needs to be closely coordinated with the economic, social and environmental constituencies.
yet it is evident that oda is decreasing in relative importance to other potential resources for sustainable development.
to reiterate, 2015 is a unique opportunity to arrive at a truly universal and sustainable development agenda, and we should use all avenues to communicate about the importance of the addis ababa, new york and paris events.
despite the difficult budgetary environment faced by eu member states, i am pleased that collective eu oda in 2014 reached eur 58 billion, which is the highest ever absolute level.
to ensure the diversity and volume of resources that will be needed by the new sustainable development goals (sdg), upper middle-income countries and emerging economies should also commit themselves to increasing their financial contributions to the development of the poorest countries.
agreement was clear that we need a comprehensive financial package, comprising aid, investments and domestic resources, especially effective taxation systems; and that the key factor for achieving the sustainable development goals is not only money, but also an enhancing framework of good policies and good governance.
i also want to speak specifically about energy policy, in the context of which it is precisely in the balkans that we have the possibility of decarbonisation, of diversification of the european union's energy policy and we have the possibility of energy independence, especially in hydropower potentials.
innovative agriculture, big investments and investments in agriculture and research into innovative agriculture and all the things that can feed this planet, i think it's extremely important and that expo has to answer this absurdity and these questions of how to have more efficient and sustainable agriculture.
in general, very little is known about products used for the production of alcoholic beverages, in particular high alcohol premixes, and given the nature of the risk, comprehensive information related to the energy values of the ingredients is necessary.
‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and the progress of the sustainability pact for bangladesh, as it confirms the interest of the european union and its member states as well as other actors in the assistance that bangladesh needs and expects from us.
i support the drafting of a resolution on the demolition of the rana plaza building and sustainable development planning.
it is clear that the maldives faces even greater challenges brought about by climate change and that it is important to focus efforts on common goals and the well-being of society as a whole.
i welcome all the progress made in achieving reforms and the need for the authorities to step up their work on effective sustainable reforms in the five key priorities, in particular on public administration reform, strengthening the judiciary, fighting corruption and organised crime and strengthening the protection and enforcement of human rights.
my amendments adopted call on the bih authorities to respect eu environmental legislation on the problems of cross-border air pollution resulting from the operation of the bosanski brod refinery, making this a topic for the first time in such reports.
the commission also invited bih to respect international conventions related to the protection of the neretva and trebišnjica rivers due to the possible danger of the upper horizons project, the threat to the supply of drinking water to the population and the irrigation of agricultural land in the neretva and the possible negative impact on the ecosystem of the malostani bay.
sectoral strategies in areas such as transport, energy and the environment that would cover the whole country are still not aligned, and i believe that they are the precondition for financial assistance.
all available resources of the member states and the eu, including those of the eib, should be effectively mobilised without delay in order to stimulate and enhance public and private investment, increase competitiveness, restore sustainable and inclusive economic growth and stimulate job and infrastructure creation.
i am in favour of supporting projects that could have the maximum impact in terms of creating new jobs, especially those that are in line with the sustainable development framework.
‒ all available resources of the member states and the eu, including those of the eib, should be effectively mobilised without delay in order to stimulate and enhance public and private investment, increase competitiveness, restore sustainable and inclusive economic growth and foster job and infrastructure creation, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, taking into account that the eib is an instrument designed to support social cohesion and is able to provide valuable assistance to member states facing difficulties in the critical social and economic situation we are facing.
i would also like to stress that the european investment bank should certainly focus its attention on investments that will make it possible to achieve as ambitious a climate target as possible.
in this sense, i would certainly point out that this is a real opportunity for croatia, which has a natural predisposition to invest in environmentally sustainable projects.
it is necessary to define clear objectives in the fight against food waste and in the sustainability of the entire food chain.
the theme of this edition of expo is: feed the planet, energy for life!
i think expo 2015 will be a new impetus for innovative solutions in the food and energy industry that will take into account the need to protect the environment and fight climate change.
‒ the world expo 2015 will be held in milan and will be dedicated to food and environmental protection.
the european parliament, in its resolution, wants to encourage reflection on the millennium development goals, on the millions of undernourished and hungry people in the world and on the sustainable development of the agricultural and food sectors.
we need an international strategy for adequate, healthy and sustainable food consumption and a strong agricultural, rural and fisheries sector and environmental care.
i signed a written statement to take all necessary action against food waste at every level of the food supply chain, from production to consumption, to make unsold edible food available to the poor and charities before its expiry date.
in the light of the amendment of european legislation regulating the right of member states to decide independently on the introduction of live gmos into the environment, i would like to stress that this right must not be infringed under any circumstances.
the release of live gmos into the environment can threaten traditional food production, which is why an initiative has been launched to establish a gmo-free region in the alps and the adriatic.
‒ continuing with the theme of this year's expo, i agree that the key to tackling food insecurity is a strong and sustainable agricultural sector across the eu, a thriving and diverse rural economy, a clean environment and family farms supported by a robust, fairer, internationally sustainable and adequately funded agricultural policy.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environmentally sustainable use of agricultural land.
the current inequalities in the food supply chain threaten the sustainability of food production and calls for greater transparency and fairness in the food supply chain, as well as the elimination of unfair trading practices and other market distortions in order to guarantee fair returns for farmers, fair profits and price setting within the food supply chain and a sustainable agricultural sector that will provide food security.
a common agricultural policy is needed with the aim of sustainable development, a change in dietary habits and a focus on promoting healthy lifestyles.
the food problem is a global problem and challenge where, in order to reduce the world's hunger and limited resources, we need to create the conditions for sustainable food production.
sustainable development policies for food security while changing the consciousness of individuals is the key to success.
‒ the idea of expo 2015 in milan feeding the planet energy for life is that this event can give an important impetus to the debate on improving food production and distribution, addressing the problem of food waste, promoting and developing already existing positive approaches to tackling food insecurity, malnutrition and poor diet, with the need to balance supply and consumption.
i am convinced that the protests for a different kind of energy that we need will certainly always have my support.
the cases of manipulation of reference interest rates, together with alleged manipulation of reference values in the energy and foreign exchange sectors, have also called for the adoption of this regulation and i therefore support it.
policies are of fundamental importance in achieving sustainable development goals.
we need policies that will ensure that financial resources are used effectively and in areas that will bring further mobilisation of resources and sustainable development.
– yes, i do agree with that, mr rubig, and that is why i said that we also need to invest and support those who could be enablers of development – those who could, through their contribution and growth, support sustainable development in their countries.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
in this context, smes, which represent more than 98% of european enterprises, are key drivers of economic and sustainable growth and it is important to enable them to take advantage of environmental challenges in order to make the most of the economic opportunities they offer.
the commission has also found that the main green innovations are still being made by highly developed smes, but that other companies need to adapt to environmental regulations.
i therefore support the empowerment of green growth and the circular economy, as they allow the development of opportunities linked to various sectors, in particular renewable energy.
‒ the committee of the regions is an advisory body of the european union, because it conveys local and regional views to the eu institutions, which is of great importance to the eu, since the differences between member states, from the most obvious, such as the administrative division of the member states, their area and population, to the more complex, such as the structure of the administration, the autonomy of a region, traditions, the environment, the economy, etc., are large and need to be taken into account.
the committee of the regions is consulted by the commission, the council and the parliament before decisions are taken at eu level on issues relating to local and regional government (for example, employment policy, the environment, education or public health).
it is important to establish a climate of trust, which is what this report should contribute to, and that is why i supported it.
serious cases of manipulation of benchmark interest rates, for example libor, euribor and benchmarks in the foreign exchange business sector, and alleged manipulation of benchmarks in the energy, oil and foreign exchange business sectors confirm that benchmarks can be subject to conflicts of interest and have discretionary rights systems and weak governance systems that are susceptible to manipulation.
‒ i supported this report on financing for development because it aims to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable development.
the role of the european parliament is crucial in achieving the sustainable development goals, but the economic situation and the competence of the member states must be taken into account when setting deadlines for the achievement of those goals.
‒ 2015 is a key year for investing in global development efforts due to the adoption of the sustainable development goals and the global agreement on climate action, which will be in force until 2030. the third international conference on financing for development, to be held in addis ababa, ethiopia, from 13 to 16 july 2015, should also create conditions for the financing of programmes for the period after 2015. statistics show that 1.5 billion people live in poverty.
the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad) estimates that developing countries' financing needs for the new sustainable development goals are approximately usd 3,9 trillion per year and that there is currently an annual shortfall of usd 2,5 trillion as the ultimate costs of sustainable development will be significantly higher.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the implementation of the global compact for sustainable development.
the elimination of harmful subsidies in the fields of energy, fisheries and agriculture, as well as the importance of creating favourable conditions for private enterprise, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which play a major role in creating new jobs, i also consider very useful for croatia.
‒ i support this report on financing for development because i share the european parliament's view on achieving the sustainable development goals.
it is also necessary to involve the private sector in financing sustainable development.
‒ i support this report because 2015 is a key year for the adoption of the sustainable development goals and the global agreement on action against climate change to be in force by 2030 and because the third international conference on financing for development, to be held in addis ababa, ethiopia, from 13 to 16 july 2015, should create the conditions necessary for the financing and implementation of the post-2015 programme.
i therefore welcome the latest and comprehensive communication from the commission entitled 'a global partnership for the eradication of poverty and sustainable development beyond 2015', as eradicating poverty and inequality can only be achieved by mobilising sufficient and appropriate resources.
i believe it is important to promote efficient, balanced and stimulating tax systems so that the financial system can ultimately be oriented towards supporting sustainable development and thus create the conditions for the implementation and financing of programmes in less developed countries.
i voted for the report because i believe that developing countries need outside help to be able to mobilise their national resources and achieve the sustainable development goals.
this can be achieved by encouraging investment in research and development that addresses the greatest public health needs while protecting the sustainability of national health systems.
however, this growth must incorporate the benefits the eu has and at the same time reduce unnecessary costs and waste such as energy and energy products imports.
madam president, this report by mr de backer on the possibilities of green growth for small and medium-sized enterprises concerns the efficient and sustainable use of energy, resources and new technologies and stresses the need for what is of the utmost importance, namely transparent, high-quality information for entrepreneurs.
the commission will continue to support the development of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development, and will continue to support the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and sustainable development.
this is why i supported the report by mr de backer on green growth as an incentive to turn environmental challenges into opportunities for sustainable growth and development with the aim of a better quality of life for all citizens of the european union.
the rapporteur focused on financing opportunities, resource efficiency, energy efficiency, circular economy and industrial synergies.
the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster.
this includes the efforts of industrial producers to reduce the environmental footprint of their products, production processes, business practices and services.
renewable energy is not only of great natural importance, but also offers the potential for economic growth and employment.
‒ focusing our efforts on new technologies that decouple economic growth from energy and consumption of raw materials, together with targeting sufficient and viable opportunities towards smes, is the right way forward for the eu.
i am committed to providing assistance to micro and start-up companies moving towards sustainable green growth and to encouraging green entrepreneurship.
‒ small and medium-sized enterprises account for more than 98% of european enterprises, provide more than 67% of total employment in the union and 58% of gross value added; they are the backbone of the european union's economy and a key driver of long-term european economic growth and sustainable job creation in the 28 member states.
employment in the environmental goods and services sector grew by 20% between 2007 and 2011, despite the crisis, and this sector offers opportunities for even greater economic activity and job creation for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), including in areas affected by displacement and ageing populations.
green growth as a means of combining economic growth with environmental sustainability offers numerous opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for 90% of all eu enterprises and two thirds of the private sector.
half of smes have a major impact on the environment through air pollution, energy use and waste disposal.
more than 90% of small and medium-sized enterprises already implement at least one of the ways to preserve the environment, either by saving energy, minimising waste or taking care of water.
enabling smes to turn environmental challenges into business opportunities - the commission has proposed a series of measures to harness the benefits of green growth.
the focus is mainly on high-tech enterprises directly implementing green innovation, but other enterprises need to be supported in complying with environmental regulations.
i support the idea of green growth and circular economy and in this connection the use of renewable energy sources.
i come from a country where the business and investment climate is seriously damaged and where citizens witness the collapse of the national economy every day.
building security is not only defence, it is also building the conditions for security worldwide and in particular in the regions around us: conflict prevention, development cooperation, promotion of human rights and democracy, coherence, economic and trade policies, including our own ones, even prevention and management of natural disasters and climate change.
i hope that from there we will define and decide whether – or rather how – we need to develop a new european strategy to tackle the different and more challenging environment facing us.
an open and transparent european defence equipment market is a precondition for our defence companies to access european supply chains in view of building strategic and sustainable alliances with european partners.
i will only mention the most important council conclusions, namely that the security environment in europe has changed dramatically in recent years, that there is a need for a stronger and more effective european security and defence policy, and the council stresses the importance of a new strategic approach to european foreign and security and defence policy.
the dramatically changed security environment along 15 000 km of european borders places an increasing responsibility on the european union to ensure stability and security in its environment, without seeking further alibis and shifting or evading responsibility.
the security of our citizens and a secure environment is a priority for the union, although in a turbulent environment it is very difficult to distinguish between external and internal security, so we must be consistent in coordinating our strategies within and outside the eu using existing instruments to respond more effectively to humanitarian requests, because the fight against terrorism and organised crime knows no borders.
in addition to economic cooperation, other provisions of the treaty cover many other areas of cooperation, such as social cooperation relating to freedom of association, labour rights, the rights of the child, equality between women and men, the fight against violence against women, the environment, climate change, cultural cooperation and the fight against aids.
i am committed to strengthening the internal market by reducing cross-border complexity, protecting societal interests from crime and terrorist acts, supporting financial stability by safeguarding the sound functioning and integrity of the financial system and protecting the economic prosperity of the european union by ensuring an efficient business environment.
‒ i support the commission's proposed revision of directive 2005/60/ec, as it has become necessary to strengthen the internal market, make financial transactions more transparent in an increasingly complex financial environment, support the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and strengthen the eu's financial system.
on the one hand, of course, this collection of information will lead to consumers feeling that information about them is being collected, which is their private environment, on the other hand, it is necessary to bear in mind that today international terrorism is financed by money flowing into the european union from third countries.
therefore, bearing in mind that the proposed insolvency regulation seeks to increase the efficiency of cross-border insolvency proceedings in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and its resilience in economic crises, and that this objective is also in line with the current political priorities of the european union on promoting economic recovery and sustainable growth as well as higher investment and preserving employment, as set out in the europe 2020 strategy, and on protecting the development and survival of enterprises, as set out in the small business act, i have supported this recommendation for a second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a common procedure.
because of the toxicity of cadmium and its compounds, and with the development of environmental awareness, cadmium is being phased out and replaced by replacement materials.
the commission notes that the use of cadmium in screens will have a beneficial effect due to their low energy consumption and that cadmium-free quantum dots are not yet technically available.
in accordance with article 5 (a) (1), exemptions shall be included in annex iii, provided that they do not compromise the protection of the environment and health as provided for in regulation (ec) no 1907/2006 and if any of the following conditions are met: their elimination or replacement by design changes or by materials and components not requiring any of the materials or substances listed in annex ii is not feasible for scientific or technical reasons; the reliability of the replacement substances cannot be guaranteed; or the overall adverse effects on the environment, health and safety of the consumer of the replacement are likely to outweigh the overall adverse effects on the environment, health and safety of the consumer of the replacement.
the commission makes clear that quantum dot leds (with or without cadmium) are not yet technically available and that it is therefore clear that their beneficial environmental impact cannot be demonstrated.
even the smallest use of such harmful substances can have major consequences for the environment, the climate and the population.
i call on the commission and the member states to rethink their positions and to look to the eu for renewable energy sources, not beyond it.
by importing renewable energy, we are not working towards our energy independence.
the production of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is a source of employment and income for european farmers and contributes to europe's energy independence.
such policies also allow additional production of ethyl alcohol in countries that are irresponsible towards our joint efforts in climate and energy policy and forest protection.
the market is volatile and we need data to plan and manage eu energy and agricultural policy responsibly.
access to the physical, social, economic and cultural environment as well as to education, information and communication is important, enabling persons with disabilities to fully enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms i'm your aunt.
i support the resolution calling on the commission to step up its commitment and to react more quickly to stop the further spread of the bacterium, because otherwise we will feel the consequences in the economy, the environment and society.
‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the epidemic of xylella fastidiosa, which attacks olives, because the epidemic has already had consequences of unprecedented proportions in southern europe, especially in southern italy, with dramatic economic, social and environmental consequences.
the bacterium appeared in the region of apulia in southern italy and, as a potential threat to crops in other regions, has taken on serious proportions on an unprecedented scale with dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences.
a balanced and biologically diverse agronomic ecosystem that is more resistant to invasive pests is one way of preventing susceptibility to and spread of plant diseases.
xylella is a very dangerous immediate threat to the production of certain crops in southern europe, including olive trees, almonds, peaches and ornamental plants, and a potential threat to other crops, such as vineyards and citrus trees, and can lead to unprecedented and devastating losses, with dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences.
mr president, in this parliament we often speak, every time, at every sitting, about the problems of migration, refugees, the energy problems of the european union.
turkey is our ally when we talk about two million refugees and when we talk about what it means to have a different energy supply.
this includes work in crucial areas such as energy, migration, the economy and modernisation of the customs union.
during the debate, many of you also mentioned energy issues.
let me assure you that the council fully supports the strengthening of eu-turkey energy cooperation with the aim of facilitating and integrating energy markets.
here, i would like to refer also to the proposal by the commission on energy union, which points to turkey as an important strategic energy partner.
the eu is committed to developing energy and climate diplomacy where it can use all its foreign policy instruments.
on climate change, ethiopia’s policy in global discussion is in line with the european union position.
the commission is well aware that the political environment is not conducive to transparent, credible and inclusive elections – and this is a concern which we have raised with the government during our article 8 political dialogues and bilateral meetings, including at the highest level.
the affirmation of the rule of law and the launch of an inclusive reconciliation process are indeed key preconditions for sustainable development in ethiopia.
mr commissioner, macedonia is a geographically small country, but it is burdened with serious internal rifts in a turbulent geopolitical environment.
one of the crucial issues is sustainable development in this region, where most countries are middle-income countries, but with the right policies and with the support of the union in implementing those policies, they could finally cross that threshold that still separates them from the developed world.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
i would therefore like to stress in particular that i expect, firstly, an effective juncker fund that will really stimulate investment, and secondly, i expect the rapid realisation of the energy and digital union.
public or private investment alone cannot result in long-term and sustainable growth, nor will reforms or fiscal consolidation alone lead to growth.
madam president, mr commissioner, in this house we talk about energy at virtually every sitting.
whether we speak in terms of threats or in terms of the need for the competitiveness of the european economy, in any case energy is what is in some ways one of the key concerns of both this commission and us as representatives.
therefore, the single european energy market is the sine qua non of our competitiveness and it is definitely acer that must be the model, the mechanism, that will enable the creation of a single energy market and that will ultimately enable the competitiveness of the european economy and of course identify the threats we have today in the energy market.
‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because of the strategic importance of this policy in today's environment of the european union, which is exposed to numerous security risks.
‒ the level of uncertainty in the environment has not been higher than at the creation of the cfsp, and the lessons learned in the 1990s must be a warning for all future action on new security challenges.
‒ i voted for the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy (csdp) because the eu security environment is becoming increasingly complex and there are new risks and threats that no member state can face alone.
‒ i supported the report on the financing of the common security and defence policy because of the importance of this topic in the current european union environment.
the annual joint funding of all member states is around eur 190 billion, but this is still insufficient to fulfil the task of providing security in its environment.
the importance of these gccs interventions in terms of peace-building is exceptional and member states should therefore take a clearer stance towards conflict prevention, post-conflict reconstruction and the maintenance of sustainable peace in conflict zones.
‒ the european security environment is facing many problems and challenges, and the boundaries between external and internal security are becoming less visible.
this is particularly important to pay attention to in view of the complex security environment in the eu.
of course, there is a responsibility of the world's most developed countries to support the development of those who are the poorest, but there is also of course a strategic interest in this, because supporting sustainable development and eradicating extreme poverty in our neighbourhood is extremely important for our own security and the security of our citizens.
it is proposed that eu development aid will support social and economic development, including through increasing access to renewable energy, in order to achieve tangible results for the population such as the creation of more jobs and the improvement of people’s livelihoods in eritrea.
in addition, support for governance-related activities that would promote sustainable economic growth is also provided for.
the death of the chestnut tree by pests and fungi means the destruction of biodiversity in our forests.
i do not need to say how important the brown chestnut is for biodiversity, but i also want to emphasise how important it is for many rural areas of the european union and how positively brown chestnut affects the local economy and all that it means for rural areas of the european union.
nutrition plays a significant role and has an impact on the health of individuals throughout their lives, especially in children, because in addition to meeting basic energy and nutrient needs, a well-balanced and proper diet ensures their proper growth and development.
trade relations, energy dependencies, these are elements on which russia is trying to divide the members of the european union.
from interdependence in the energy sector to the ever-sensitive issues of european security to the impact on the union's internal relations.
russia is an important partner of the european union and we should, for our mutual benefit, define and constructively establish a long-term sustainable relationship based on respect for international law.
from market disturbances, which have been 'salted to the ground' by the russian embargo and the abolition of milk quotas, to climate change and nature, which reacts unpredictably every now and then and leaves severe consequences for the food production sector.
equal treatment and equal treatment should be achieved in all segments of the social and economic environment, equally in education, health, culture, employment, political action, the exercise of social rights, etc.
to reduce the risks they pose to the health and safety of consumers and to the environment, and to avoid economic and social consequences for eu businesses and producers.
the strategy does not pay sufficient attention to the distinction between physical counterfeiting of trade marks and patents on the one hand and copyright infringement on the other, especially in the digital environment.
the creation of a strong safeguard framework combined with effective remedies and the creation of an environment in which the interests of member states and third countries are complementary is necessary.
‒ i support this report because i believe that intellectual property rights must be fully protected to provide them with the safest possible investment environment.
given that the eu's competitiveness is based on creativity, innovation and the development of a knowledge-based economy, it is important to ensure the continuity of the eu's policy in the area of intellectual property rights protection and to design new mechanisms and adapt existing protection tools in the light of the new technological environment.
madam president, i also want to thank mrs. gardini and mr. la vija for making this report, and although it seems like the formality of signing this agreement with iceland, i would say that it is an agreement that will give us a boost on the road to paris, and it also gives us an opportunity to re-examine our positions on climate change.
the canaries are a remarkable country with its own peculiarities, and it was certainly easier for them to use wind energy and so on than in some highly industrialized countries.
if we can't reach the goal, let's not change the goal but change the step, change the method, invent new technologies, find alternative solutions and go to paris in 2015.
madam president, this decision is a sign of the fulfilment of an important promise and a sign of the european union's commitment to remain a leader in the fight against climate change.
the effects of climate change on society and its intensification are witnessed every day.
the fight against climate change is a collective fight, a fight for our planet, and that's why it's a priority today.
we want europe to remain a leader in the fight against climate change and i can't help feeling that we are in some ways almost alone on this planet and that we need a really strong alliance with precisely those with whom we are negotiating tomorrow on ttip or with those in asia with whom we are trading in all sorts of ways.
madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, if we want to be leaders in the fight against climate change and thus ensure the technological competitiveness of the european union, if we want to reduce the european union's macroeconomic deficit due to fossil fuel imports amounting to eur 1 billion per day, it is necessary to change the european union's energy policy into a sustainable energy policy that will encourage the development of new fuels to successfully replace imported fossil fuels, that will encourage the development of (incomprehensible) technologies, that will enable citizens to actively participate in the decarbonisation of society through renewable sources and energy efficiency.
instead, we are being offered as energy security a policy that encourages member states, such as croatia, to explore and exploit domestic unconventional and conventional energy sources, mostly fossil fuels, which takes us back to the beginning of the 20th century instead of bringing us into the 21st century and what it is declaratively advocating: safe, clean and cheaper energy.
i fully agree with you that plomin c should not be built on imported coal because it does not ensure the energy security of the republic of croatia, but in fact, it continues to create dependence on energy imports.
as regards exploration in the adriatic sea, there is therefore a clear view that croatia has not complied with european union directives requiring that the marine environment be managed in a good and safe manner in cooperation with its neighbours.
madam president, the debate on energy security is multidimensional, because it concerns our internal market and the competitiveness of our economies, but it also extends to the sphere of the foreign and defence policies of the member states.
i am pleased that the rapporteur recognises this and highlights the urgent need for a diversity of european energy sources and a wide range of partners at global level.
i would like to point out in this connection that additional lng capacity in the mediterranean and the black sea should be high on our priority list, because their contribution to the energy independence of central and south-eastern europe would be truly enormous.
madam president, the single european energy market is the only possible way to achieve our energy security.
namely, for a number of reasons, and i'll of course only list two that are commonly known, one is our dependence on russia and the other is our competitiveness with respect to u.s. energy prices or energy prices in some other competitive markets.
so i am in favour of creating a single energy market, and i am in favour of creating regional energy markets first, and i will stop here in the area of eastern europe, in the balkans, where we have enormous potential for hydro, wind and solar, but we also have lng terminal projects, not only on the island of krk in croatia, but also in albania and elsewhere.
the european union imports 53% of the energy it consumes, paying more than €1 billion a day.
i strongly advocate full respect for subsidiarity, respect for national energy choices, especially when it comes to the sufficiency of their domestic resources or in a situation where there is no possibility of diversification.
however, how to react to the irresponsible behaviour of some member states and their governments, which in their strategy papers, regardless of the availability of renewable energy sources, choose energy sources that only increase dependence on imports?
europe seems to lack the courage and the strength to make bold steps towards greater use of green energy and energy efficiency in the foreseeable future.
yes, europe is a leader in climate policy, but making the responsible decision to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions we're talking about is painful as grinding your teeth.
this decision must be accompanied by a new direction of the economy, towards a reduction in dependence on imported energy.
the doha amendment commits signatory countries to reduce their average annual greenhouse gas emissions by 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2013-2020. i support this report because its adoption will send a strong signal that the eu is still a world leader in environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the obligations arising therefrom, as this further strengthens the european union's global role in international environmental obligations.
however, it also requires a strong alliance and partnership involving other countries and powers with high levels of pollution, as it is clear that the european union does not bear all the responsibility, but rather shares it.
i support the fact that the amendment further strengthens the commitment to climate change and that it establishes a binding international agreement that is comprehensive and sustainable.
‒ mep elisabetta gardini, on behalf of the envi committee, recommended the adoption of amendments to the kyoto protocol signed in 1997 with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i support the recommendation that the doha amendment protocol be ratified as soon as possible to send a strong message in the fight against climate change ahead of the 21st un climate change conference later this year in paris.
the doha amendments propose a joint commitment to reduce emissions in the second commitment period of the protocol by 2020 by 20% compared to 1990 levels, which is also one of the five targets under the europe 2020 strategy.
the achievement of the greenhouse gas emission reduction target is a major challenge for all economic sectors that need to contribute to its achievement and member states should submit their proposals for the period up to 2020.
written.
‒ i supported this recommendation, in which the european parliament, by virtue of its powers, shows responsibility to its citizens and the international community and expresses its strong desire that europe continue to be a leader in the fight against climate change.
the union and its member states reached an agreement at the doha climate change conference on their commitment to quantified emission reductions limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the second commitment period to 80% of the sum of the base year emissions.
‒ in december 2012, at the doha climate change conference, the 192 parties to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change adopted an amendment to the kyoto protocol, which established a second commitment period for the agreement beginning on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020. the signatories have committed to reducing emissions.
the doha amendment commits croatia, together with the other member states of the european union, to limit its average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of its emissions for the period 2013-2020. i therefore support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the commitments arising therefrom, as i believe that this will send a strong message at international level that the european union, its member states and partners are making every effort to address global climate change.
they relate to the inclusion of a new gas, nitrogen trifluoride (nf3), whose emissions are low but increasing.
croatia, together with the other member states of the union, has committed to limit its average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the period from 2013 to 2020 to 80% of its emissions.
i believe that the doha amendments and the kyoto protocol supplement on the european union's shared fulfilment of commitments will send a strong signal about the efforts and leadership of the european union and its member states in the field of climate change at the international level.
‒ i support this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendments to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the obligations arising therefrom, because i believe that member states should continue to reduce their emissions by 2020 and that the european union should lead by example.
‒ i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and on the joint fulfilment of the obligations arising therefrom.
the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997. the european union and its member states are jointly responsible under the kyoto protocol, in accordance with the mechanism for meeting the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the first period (2008-2012) by 8% below 1990 levels.
the rapporteur considers that the ratification of the decision to conclude the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of commitments by the european union can send a strong signal about the efforts and leadership of the european union and its member states in the field of climate change at international level.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion of the amendment to the kyoto protocol from doha, which was signed with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in march 2013, the council proposed a commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, from 1 january 2013 to the end of 2020, compared to the previous period from 2008 to 2010. i support the provision of the protocol requiring parties to jointly agree and report on the level of emissions of gases in order to ensure transparency and efficiency of the parties in their obligations, with each country being individually responsible for its emissions and allocated amount.
in this context, i believe that the commission should continue to work with member states and third countries to ensure that they adopt and implement the kyoto protocol regulations as effectively as possible, thereby contributing to the global efforts to address climate change.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and its member states and iceland on the participation of iceland in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the european union, its member states and iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, as it sends a strong message about the coordinated efforts of the european union on climate change at international level.
a multilateral approach to tackling climate change, based on clear rules, can certainly contribute to effective and sustainable progress in protecting international interests.
the targets for that period were agreed in 2012 and commit to a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared to 1990. the signing of this agreement sends a strong message of the european union's commitment to achieving its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets at international level.
‒ i welcome the recommendation for a decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the european union, its member states and iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the accession of iceland to this agreement in the framework of the joint fulfilment of commitments with the european union demonstrates the correctness of the union's climate policy and certainly welcomes iceland's position on climate protection, which is similar to that of croatia before its accession to the eu.
‒ i support the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the european union, its member states and iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, as i consider that this agreement sends a strong signal for concerted european action to combat climate change at international level.
‒ i support this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and iceland on the participation of iceland in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the european union, its member states and iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, together with the united nations framework convention on climate change, because i believe that in order to reduce environmental pollution, which can have major consequences for life all over the world, it is essential that as many countries as possible adhere to the provisions of the kyoto protocol.
‒ i support the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the european union, its member states and iceland in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
iceland does not participate in emissions trading within the eu greenhouse gas emissions trading system.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second period to enable the contracting parties, the european union and the member states on the one hand, and iceland on the other, to achieve their greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
countries have committed to reduce their average greenhouse gas emissions by up to 80% of their emissions on an annual basis.
the union's contribution to the global warming effort is estimated at eur 5 billion.
i believe that iceland, as a non-eu country, is a good indicator that joint international action can contribute to the global effort to address the increasingly prevalent climate change, while also sending a strong message about coordinated european efforts.
as a representative of a country where the energy sector faces challenges in terms of energy management and the use of renewable energy sources, i believe that activities should primarily focus on increasing energy efficiency, developing the energy market and ultimately regulating energy prices that will be acceptable to all citizens.
by implementing such measures, we will contribute to the achievement of long-term objectives, including the protection of the environment, croatia's invaluable resource, and i have therefore supported this report.
croatia should promote the right values and create a business environment free of corruption in order to ensure economic development and investment.
‒ the eu and russia are linked through many sectors, from energy to tourism.
‒ russia is one of the world's leading powers and it is understandable that the european union is seeking a strategic partnership with it in economic and energy terms, but also to tackle global challenges.
the eu and its member states must also work to reduce their energy dependence on russian energy.
to give the eu greater bargaining power, a strong european energy union needs to be created quickly to reduce the dependence of individual member states on external energy suppliers, in particular russia.
‒ this own-initiative report by parliament is essentially a response to the european commission's communication on energy security in the eu, but it also addresses wider energy-related issues.
the main message that the rapporteur wants to send is that it is better to 'spend at home' the money that eu member states are now giving to import energy from abroad, which i fully support.
the best way to achieve energy security in europe is to invest in renewable energy, innovation and 'domestic' energy production that will create new jobs.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a european energy security strategy because of the importance of a single energy policy and a single european market for the european union's energy system to be sustainable and competitive on a global scale.
in this context, it is necessary to reduce energy dependency, develop new energy technologies, strengthen the internal energy market and diversify external energy sources and routes.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the energy market and the energy supply of the member states.
i also agree with the need to implement strategic energy infrastructure projects to make the energy market more sensitive and support greater coordination of different positions to contribute to a clearer and stronger eu energy position.
‒ the prosperity and security of the european union depend on a stable energy supply.
it is well known that every member state is concerned about energy security.
in the winters of 2006 and 2009, temporary disruptions in energy supply highlighted the vulnerability but also the need for a common european energy policy.
indicators point to a growing global demand for energy, which is expected to increase by 27 percent by 2030. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment in the union.
new technologies, alternative energy sources and unconventional fuels will play an important role in diversifying energy sources in order to reduce dependence on foreign suppliers and diversify energy supply.
this is one of the key proposals put forward by the european commission in its communication on the energy union.
‒ the strategy is an integral part of the 2030 framework for climate and energy policy and follows the objectives of the eu's competitiveness and industrial policy to a large extent.
the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on the basis of which the commission may adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the assessment of the effects of the measures referred to in paragraph 1 on the energy performance of buildings.
my view is that europe should strive for energy independence, and that means using its own resources in the best possible way.
dependence on imported energy, neglect of renewable energy sources and keeping nuclear energy as an important energy source is unacceptable to me.
the amendment calling on member states and the eu institutions to phase out subsidies and other public funding for the construction, operation and life extension of new and existing nuclear plants was not adopted, so i voted against this energy security strategy proposal.
‒ the european union needs a sound and efficient use of energy and a stable, affordable and sustainable energy supply to achieve energy security, because energy security means above all political independence.
at present, the eu still imports 53% of its total energy for consumption, i.e.
in order to achieve energy security, it is necessary to reduce those figures and to shift towards renewable energy sources.
renewable energy should be central to supporting the eu's energy and climate policy, but a community approach and cooperation between member states are needed to make it more cost-effective to achieve renewable energy targets.
the project of the lng terminal in croatia is listed in the european energy security strategy.
the strategy represents a strong vision that promotes resilience to short-term energy supply disruptions and reduces dependency on other energy sources, existing energy suppliers and existing energy pathways in the long term.
‒ i support this report because i believe that, in view of possible unforeseen external influences such as the crisis in ukraine, european energy security should be strengthened.
it is also necessary to have a single energy market to reduce energy prices and develop better technologies for energy production and consumption so as not to rely too heavily on obsolete technologies.
the new technologies also increase the competitiveness of the european union's energy market vis-à-vis external markets.
‒ the european union now imports 53% of its total energy consumption, with a large share of energy coming from geopolitically unstable areas.
in addition, high energy costs in the eu are driving some industries out of business, reducing employment and damaging the eu economy.
the report focuses on long-term strategic objectives and includes concrete actions towards moderate energy consumption, increasing indigenous energy production and developing energy technologies.
the report is structured in such a way that it does not cover all the important aspects of the european energy community in terms of energy security with a clear distinction between its internal and external dimensions, which is why i did not support this report.
the aim of this report is to set out the guidelines by which we must ensure our energy security in the short and long term.
‒ the majority of the text in this report focuses on renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency.
in particular, while i support in principle the increase in the availability of renewable energy and the improvement of energy efficiency, i consider that this report over-emphasises these issues and therefore fails to highlight the key provisions of the security challenges needed to complete the internal energy market and end the european union's dependence on unreliable energy suppliers from third countries.
the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the energy performance of buildings, which is not yet in force.
i agree with the need for the turkish government to continue its efforts to achieve a comprehensive and sustainable outcome of the peace process with the kurdish community on the basis of negotiations with the kurdistan workers' party (pkk).
the report also covered the highly important energy dimension and called for the promotion of energy security as well as the reduction of energy dependency of the member states.
the black sea basin is extremely sensitive to environmental degradation, and the increasing militarization of the region is further threatening this fragile ecosystem.
today, after the environmental disasters in the black sea, we have the total militarization of the black sea, especially after the annexation of crimea, which of course deserves all condemnation.
i also think it is important that the report also mentions the ecological sensitivity of the black sea basin, which needs to be addressed.
the annexation of crimea has brought about a change with concrete consequences for the defence and security policy and for the union's energy, trade, transport and maritime policy.
the implementation of the eu energy policy aimed at promoting energy security and the initiative to diversify the black sea energy sources through, inter alia, investments and financial measures is also key.
in this context, i want to strongly support the creation of this fund, i want to strongly support the intention to invest in infrastructure, in energy, i want to strongly support the fact that we want to talk about venture capital, to support venture capital, start-ups, to encourage public-private partnerships.
more europe when we talk about the energy union is certainly a good solution.
however, i believe that sufficient attention should be paid to recommendations to individual member states and to compliance with the rules, as otherwise the credibility and sustainability of the fiscal policy framework, which has been considerably improved by the adoption of the six-pack, is jeopardised.
a stable and simple tax system is one of the key elements of a favourable business environment.
many economists say that this is unsustainable, however, i believe and i want our system to remain sustainable and that is why i am in favour of the variants of the harmonization of the tax system in the euro area because it is the only possible right and proper way, and a long-term stable way, to ensure the possibility of investment and all that we know about the detection of tax havens and tax fraud.
the purpose of the fund is to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis by investing in riskier projects in the fields of research, innovation, energy, transport and social infrastructure, education and science.
mobilizing finance and investment in a fair and transparent way, improving the investment climate and supporting projects of public interest, through the mobilisation of the 315 billion euro efsi, as proposed, i see as a good basis for a new economic upswing.
the creation of new jobs and increased eu investment should be based on investments in renewable energy sources, investments in the agricultural sector, rural development, and self-sustaining projects such as eco-production and eco-tourism.
given that the energy sector, transport connectivity and research are mentioned as areas of investment, i think that the possibilities of this plan for croatia should not be underestimated.
its main purpose should be to help overcome the difficulties in financing and implementing strategic investments of economic and social importance in the union in order to strengthen a sustainable economy and create quality jobs and to guarantee better access to finance, in particular in regions where it is structurally constrained.
to increase the impact of the efsi, it is necessary to continue to implement effective structural reforms that are both economically and socially sustainable, as well as to support the conditions for the creation of quality and sustainable jobs and to invest in social policies under the social investment package.
i agree with the view that we need to simplify, improve, supplement and amend the existing set of rules in order to encourage investment and achieve sustainable development.
the fact is that the total debt of the 28 member states of the union has decreased from 4,5% of gdp in 2011 to a projected 3% of gdp in 2014, but the economic balance over the cycle should more effectively promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which has been modest or stagnating in recent years and is expected to remain below 1,5% of union gdp growth.
in pursuing that objective, member states should implement the recommendations received from the commission to support sustainable growth through better, sustainable jobs and social cohesion and to make progress towards the europe 2020 targets.
however, i also want to make a few points and mention that first of all, i think we need to be very aware of the problems of cross-border cooperation, or rather, cross-border waste and resource use.
i also expect the possibilities of the candidate countries and potential candidates to be included because we have a lot of pollution, among other things, and because of the non-involvement of these countries in the eu processes and, of course, the involvement of local and regional authorities.
producers have high costs of producing energy products and prices are volatile.
the second reason is direct savings in energy consumption, which allows the transport sector to contribute very quickly to the climate and energy objectives of the european union in a sustainable way and at an acceptable cost.
what we definitely need to regulate through ttip is the protection of european interests ranging from agricultural policy and environmental protection to public sector interests and cultural policy.
as this is an atypical fishing contract, the european court of justice ruled in 2014 that venezuelan vessels must fish in accordance with the common fisheries policy and respecting the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, and an additional condition is that they must leave part of the catch in french guiana ports, which i consider an important source of revenue for that department.
taking into account that the commission adopted and submitted to the council on 15 april 2015 draft amending budget no 4 for the general budget for 2015, the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the activation of the eu solidarity fund (floods in romania, bulgaria and italy) and the position on draft amending budget no 4/2015 adopted by the council on 19 june 2015, and that the european parliament in its motion for a resolution accepts the position of the council, i support this report on the position of the council and express my satisfaction that the appropriations allocated will at least mitigate the severe consequences of the disasters on living conditions, the environment and the economy.
‒ i voted for the report on the implementation of multimodal integrated ticketing systems in the eu because i believe that such a system has a great many positive aspects: from the promotion of modernisation that contributes to the economic market, tourism and mobility of citizens to environmental protection, sustainability and efficiency.
‒ i agree with parliament that the challenges of european transport policy are many, such as economic sustainability, energy efficiency and environmental awareness, together with air traffic congestion, congestion, but the implementation of multimodal integrated information, ticketing and air ticketing systems is a major contribution to solving these problems.
such combined transport would contribute to strengthening the core european values of the single european transport area, which include economic sustainability, increased safety in all modes of transport, multimodal transport, efficiency, the creation of new and quality jobs and labour mobility.
such 'smart' and sustainable mobility benefits society, the economy, the environment, social cohesion and tourism in equal measure.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
given that 72.2% of citizens used cars as a means of transport in 2012, i believe that the implementation of this system would achieve more frequent use of public transport and thus reduce pollution and traffic congestion in cities.
in addition, ease of use and travel efficiency would lead to a reduction in the use of passenger cars, a reduction in large traffic congestion and a reduction in the harmful impact on the environment.
commission, attached to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european fund for strategic investments and amending regulations (eu) no 1291/2013 and (eu) no 1316/2013 (09876/2015 c8-0172/2015 2015/2011 ((bud)) as i support the commission's proposal to establish a european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to support strategic investments with high economic and social added value, promote sustainable innovation, skills and local places, foster eu competitiveness and contribute to the union strategy for growth, sustainability and inclusiveness.
i agree with the position on supporting the mobilisation of additional private and public resources to invest in objectives with a european dimension, in particular by addressing cross-border problems in areas such as energy, environment and transport infrastructure.
this in itself leaves a greater pool of resources to link europe and horizon 2020. such eu programmes guarantee stable and sustainable growth in the member states and enhance the eu's competitiveness on the world market.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the future of the eu milk and milk products sector revision of the implementation of the milk package because this proposal raises the level of competitiveness and sustainability of the sector, which is suffering from the effects of the crisis.
‒ the 'milk package' aims to strengthen the position of milk and milk products producers in the milk and milk products supply chain and to prepare the sector for a sustainable and market-oriented future.
the aim of this package is to achieve a sustainable and competitive milk market and to provide assistance to small and family-owned businesses that are highly vulnerable to market volatility.
the compromise amendments cover key issues such as a sustainable and competitive sector across the eu and fair remuneration for milk.
‒ i commend the rapporteur for the great effort he has put into analysing the impact and success of the measures presented in the 2012 'milk package' so far and the concrete proposals he has made to ensure a vital, sustainable and competitive dairy sector on the market after the abolition of milk quotas.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on ppps in non-eu countries (2014/2233 ((ini)) given that ppps are important drivers of economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation both in the single market and abroad and play a strategic role in modernising infrastructure; whereas the economic structures of countries benefit from an environment that allows interaction between public and private actors.
the positive impact of public-private partnerships on improving project implementation, stimulating innovation and research, a more professional management environment, and delivering high added value for citizens and consumers has been demonstrated.
‒ private investment and financing have been key drivers of sustainable growth, which is forecast to be around 5% in developing countries in the coming years.
‒ public-private partnerships are an important driver of economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation both in the single market and globally, and play a strategic role in modernising infrastructure, particularly energy, water, road and digital infrastructure.
smes as well as large corporations can provide private sector knowledge and skills, experience and good practices, as well as networks involving public authorities from non-eu countries, thus effectively helping to shape sustainable development policies.
i support the rapporteur's view that in the construction, management, maintenance or operation of infrastructure in the transport sector, public buildings and equipment, the environment, utilities, telecommunications and energy networks or the development of new technologies and products, there are a number of potential benefits and inherent risks that can be shared between the private and public sectors.
since jps are of particular importance for the realisation of large infrastructure projects, they play a strategic role in the modernisation of the energy, water, road and digital economy sectors.
‒ public-private partnerships are long-term agreements between private stakeholders and public bodies that seek to achieve mutually beneficial public objectives (in segments such as infrastructure, energy, telecommunications and the environment) by sharing resources and expertise.
on the other hand, the commission should be called upon to make greater efforts to tackle unfair trading practices in the food supply chain that negatively affect producers' incomes, reduce revenues and threaten the survival and sustainability of the sector.
the commission has also examined the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests.
member states were required to establish national strategies for sustainable operational programmes, in which the role of the contracting authority was further underlined.
i must stress that we will not stimulate long-term shareholding by increasing the already excessive administrative burden, but solely by creating a stable business environment, ensuring a high level of predictability of business opportunities, reducing taxes and deregulating the market.
the fundamental contradiction, which is reducing emissions and growing the economy, is just a fundamental contradiction.
because we can reduce the unemployment problem, and at the same time do good things for the environment.
this strategy is based on what makes the european union competitive on a global scale, namely sustainable development.
we need not talk about what sustainable development is, but we know that small, micro and medium-sized enterprises are the foundation of the european economy.
so the success of green employment and therefore the green economy is possible if we meet three basic conditions: the first is to invest in education for sustainable development, which we currently do not have in any member state, knowing that the average is currently 2% of gdp investment, and that we should have much more.
the luxembourg presidency's work programme is based on a total of seven headings: boosting investment to boost growth and create jobs; strengthening the eu's social dimension; managing migration flows, including freedom, justice and security; revitalizing the single market by focusing on the digital dimension; placing eu competitiveness in a global and transparent framework; promoting sustainable development and strengthening the eu's presence on the world stage.
madam president, the energy obtained by nuclear fission is a very risky way of obtaining energy.
the work is paying off because the parliament's report has adopted amendments which i call for the abolition of visas, the maintenance of our food safety standards, energy security, but also the facilitation of access to sources of financing for our small and medium-sized companies so that they can be pressed into the american market at all.
socialists and democrats know what they want from the agreement: economic growth and employment while maintaining standards of protection of workers' rights, the environment, food security, health and democracy.
i support ensuring, through these recommendations, a transparent ttip negotiation; leading to an ambitious, comprehensive and balanced trade and investment agreement of high standards; promoting sustainable growth with mutual benefits in the member states and mutual and reciprocal benefits for all partners; seeking the abolition of all customs tariffs; taking into account that visa facilitation for european service and goods providers is a crucial element; ensuring full recognition and strong legal protection of eu geographical indications and measures to deal with cases of misuse; continuing efforts to increase the transparency of negotiations by making more negotiation proposals available to the public.
the european union has developed a number of mechanisms to involve citizens and interested public in public consultation processes that are also underpinned by serious analyses of how the proposed change will affect the economy, the environment and human rights, and i therefore support the report.
the key clause of ttip is the reduction of customs tariffs and the protection of workers and the environment.
however, the eu has spoken out and protected its citizens by making clear that it will not sacrifice its food safety, health and social standards, environment, data protection and cultural diversity standards.
it is imperative to improve the current capabilities, skills and resources that the european union has in this sector in order to ensure global competitiveness and sustainability.
‒ i support this recommendation on a draft council decision on the extension of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india, given that on 25 june 2002 a council decision was adopted on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india, on the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the parties shall cooperate in the development of the relevant international standards and standards of quality and safety, including standards for the protection of human health and the environment, and in the implementation of international standards and standards.
(14014/2014) and the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a8-0180/2015).
‒ i support this recommendation of the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, by which the faroe islands accede to horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) on the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy and the draft council decision.
the areas where their participation was most relevant were food, agriculture and fisheries, biotechnology and the marine environment, aquaculture and climate change.
over four years, the thor project has investigated the dynamics of the north atlantic thermohaline ocean (thc) circulation, which carries heat from the tropics to the european coast, strongly influencing the european temperate climate.
the directive can improve competitiveness and economic growth by creating a stable business environment, reducing administration, reducing taxes, deregulating the market.
‒ this proposal contributes to the long-term sustainability of companies in the european union and creates an attractive framework for company shareholders and contributes to greater efficiency for the purpose of creating new jobs, which is important for all member states, and especially for the republic of croatia, where the unemployment rate is 18,4% (april 2015, dzs).
‒ the greenhouse gas emissions trading system is an ambitious project that has not proved fully feasible in practice.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and functioning of the market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system and amending directive 2003/87/ec, as such a report would contribute to the effective reform of the emissions trading system (ets) needed to achieve the union's greenhouse gas reduction target.
‒ i supported the report by member of parliament ivo bellet which aims to correct the shortcomings of the greenhouse gas emissions trading system with the aim of promoting emission reductions in a financially and economically efficient way.
the purpose of the amendment, namely the establishment of an emissions market reserve, is to ensure market stability and emission reductions by 2020. the current imbalance in the market is due to a mismatch between the supply of emission allowances, which are fixed due to the nature of the eu ets, and the demand side of them, which is primarily dependent on economic cycles, fossil fuel prices, climate policy on renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
‒ i welcome the establishment of a market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system (eu ets).
the greenhouse gas emissions trading system is not working well, unfortunately, and needs to be changed, and europe is meeting its targets and its commitments to its partners in the world.
the first is the continuity of the successful implementation of the eu climate and energy policy towards the 2030 target and beyond to 2050. second, greater predictability of the market and resilience to disruption.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related costs of the union's actions.
i want the establishment of a greenhouse gas trading market stability reserve to ensure that necessary stability, just as i want our industry to remain among the world's leaders, but at the same time to be grounded in responsibility for the planet and for generations to come.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for climate action, which aims to improve the climate and energy security of the union by promoting the use of renewable energy sources and the use of renewable energy sources in the union.
as a signatory to the kyoto protocol, the republic of croatia is obliged to establish a national system for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions in the country and to prepare a greenhouse gas emissions report on an annual basis and to submit it to the secretariat of the unfccc (by 30 april of the current year) and to the european commission (by 31 january of the current year) on which it is working.
finally, i support the commission's efforts to consider the creation of a harmonised mechanism across the union to offset carbon costs and ensure a level playing field on this issue at both eu and global level.
‒ i support the report by my colleague mr iv beleta on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system and amending directive 2003/87/ec.
the commission report to the european parliament and the council on the state of the european carbon market in 2012 identified the need for measures to address structural imbalances between supply and demand.
in order to address this problem and to increase the resilience of the european emissions trading system (ets) to imbalances, it is necessary to establish a market stability reserve.
‒ i support the proposal to establish and operate a market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system and to amend directive 2003/87/ec as it is a structural decision that should consolidate the european union's decision to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to trade them.
controlling greenhouse gas emissions is a key part of the european union's climate policy and must be in all our interests for the future sustainable development of the economy.
‒ i support the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment and functioning of the market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system and amending directive 2003/87/ec.
in january 2014, the commission adopted the ets-msr proposal with the aim of structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets) to address excess emission allowances.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
‒ the commission's communication 'blue growth - sustainable growth opportunities in the marine and maritime sector' highlights that the 'blue' economy represents 5.4 million jobs and generates almost €500 billion of added value a year.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the european atomic energy community in the union programme for research and technological development (euratom) and the conditions for the participation of the european atomic energy community in horizon 2020. i believe that we must continue to work together in the future in the field of science and technology.
the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation, switzerland is joining the european atomic energy community's research, innovation and training programme horizon 2020. given that both parties had previously expressed their wish to continue long-term cooperation in the field of controlled thermonuclear fusion and physics, and that all the conditions laid down in the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community had been met, i supported the report by mr buzek.
the iter programme is one of the projects that enable the development of technology for cheap energy production through controlled fusion.
‒ i support the rapporteur's recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation, by which the swiss confederation accedes to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community, which complements horizon 2020, and governs the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities implemented by fusion for energy, adopted on 28 may 2015. as a representative from croatia, a country whose citizens were directly discriminated against by employment outcomes, i am particularly pleased that this issue has been regulated and that switzerland will participate fully in horizon 2020.
written.
‒ i support the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union, the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation.
the objective of this agreement is to associate switzerland to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 - and to regulate switzerland's participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
‒ i support this recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation, by which the swiss confederation accedes to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community, which complements horizon 2020, and governs the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities implemented by fusion for energy, in accordance with the draft council decision and the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy.
‒ i support this report, which is positive and includes several key issues: sustainable and quality job creation, decent working conditions, a decent wage set through collective bargaining, the fight against poverty.
the integrated guidelines must, in the first instance, enable member states to adopt sustainable and integrated economic models at union, national and local level.
the integrated guidelines should at the same time support the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and the objectives of the european semester for economic policy coordination.
these are: boosting investment, increasing growth through structural reforms, removing the main obstacles to growth and job creation at eu level, increasing the sustainability of public finances and their growth-friendliness, increasing labour demand, increasing the supply of labour and labour skills, improving the functioning of labour markets and ensuring fairness, combating poverty and promoting equal opportunities.
‒ in its resolution of 11 march 2015, the european parliament set out guidelines for creating more jobs within all member states, developing small and medium-sized enterprises and sustainable and inclusive growth across the european union.
the aim is to create sustainable and quality jobs.
‒ i voted for the report on the employment initiative: harnessing the potential of the green economy for job creation, because at this moment, when we are reaching the limit of unsustainable pressure on the environment and climate change, and at the same time inefficient use of resources, initiatives like this to promote the green economy are not only commendable, but extremely necessary.
the european environment agency reports that more than 1.3 million jobs were created between 2000 and 2001 because of growth in the services and green goods sectors.
creating much-needed and sustainable jobs, in particular by encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises, increasing labour market opportunities, strengthening the competitiveness of the european economy and industry, and reducing europe's energy dependence are just some of the positive aspects of this initiative and the report that i voted for.
on the other hand, we are witnessing climate change and weather disasters caused by years of environmental neglect and unreasonable use of resources.
i supported the report by mep jean lambert which links two of the european commission's priorities to two major problems: unemployment and the environment.
i therefore advocate supporting those economic activities which create new jobs, protect the social security of employees and protect the environment.
‒ the european environment agency in its 2015 report pointed out that current measures are not sufficient to achieve the objectives of preserving biodiversity, reducing fossil fuel use and combating climate change and its impacts on human health and the environment.
therefore, i support the rapporteur's proposal proposing measures to harness the potential of the green economy for job creation, given the risk of inefficient use of resources, unsustainable pressure on the environment and climate change that could cause irreversible effects on society and its natural environment.
the renewable energy economy has already shown good results, with the green goods and services sector growing by more than 50% between 2000 and 2011, creating more than 1,3 million jobs, and the commission estimating that the renewable energy economy will create 20 million new jobs in europe by 2020. in croatia, the link between job growth and the environmental protection segment is also recognized, which, according to research, would allow the number of jobs to double in the short term from 6,000 to 12,000, and the development of a low-carbon economy to create 80,000 new, green jobs by 2050.
written.
in order to achieve the commission's target of 20 million jobs created by 2020 through the use of renewable energy sources, member states should create a new regulatory, fiscal and financial framework geared towards innovation and the sustainable use of natural resources.
the major challenge will be to prepare for a low-carbon future, to effectively combat climate change and to effectively transition jobs to sustainable societies and economies.
as a representative from croatia, i consider it important to develop social awareness of the green economy through two elements sustainability and the creation of new value.
the commission should also be able to provide the union with a comprehensive list of the measures that it considers necessary to implement the union's policy on climate change.
tax incentives for start-ups and smes offering goods and services with environmental added value would also be beneficial.
the commission and the member states should continue to work in close coordination with the juncker plan for a european energy union.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's energy policy.
the final effect will be a geostrategically significant reduction in the union's energy dependence, while at the same time making energy more accessible and cheaper.
‒ i support the green jobs initiative report because the european environment agency has found that current measures to conserve biodiversity, reduce fossil fuel use and combat climate change and its impacts on human health and the environment are not sufficient.
according to the european environment agency, the green goods and services sector has grown by 50%, leading to the creation of new jobs, while the renewable economy is estimated to create another 20 million jobs by 2020. it is also necessary to make the transition to an environmentally sustainable economy, taking into account sustainable and long-term employment for all, taking into account social inclusion and poverty eradication.
‒ i strongly oppose the overly invasive and disproportionate measures in this report, such as the creation of a financial transaction tax, decent jobs through the influence on public procurement power through social and environmental clauses, the legal obligation for employers to include employee representatives in green employment programmes, etc.
taxation should be a reliable and sustainable source of revenue in developing countries if there is a balanced and efficient taxation system, but also an effective tax administration that promotes the payment of taxes.
the report contains a number of key proposals such as binding targets to reduce commercial and industrial waste by 2025, mandatory separation of biological waste by 2020, mandatory reduction of all landfills and the like.
‒ i voted for the report on resource efficiency: moving to a circular economy, because it will contribute to a change of the whole system, to significant innovations in technology and business, and to society as a whole at the ecological, ethical and economic level.
we see every day the consequences of unsustainable resource use that lead to increasing environmental hazards, creating economic risk as well.
resource efficiency is a prerequisite for long-term growth and development, which should be based on environmentally sustainable foundations.
i also supported the above because of the 'zero waste rate' policy which aims to rationalise waste management at all levels.
‒ the legislative package, conceived on the back of the circular economy, is a legacy of the work and bold vision of the previous european commission by its environment commissioner.
the conscious limit of such unchecked economic growth, such a bold turn towards energy efficiency, is that the time has come when we must separate our economic growth from our consumption of resources.
in supporting this resolution, i will continue to call on the european parliament, in cooperation with the national governments and parliaments of the member states, the council and the european commission, to start implementing this idea in a responsible and planned manner, thus achieving full synergy with other eu policies towards further strengthening the economy on the basis of sustainable and efficient use of resources, and further improving the quality of life of eu citizens.
europe's competitiveness can only be significantly enhanced by increasing the added value of resources in the economy and by promoting a sustainable supply of raw materials from european sources.
the role of businesses, authorities and consumers in the eu by improving resource use through better design requirements and through waste legislation that prioritises the waste hierarchy could deliver significant net savings estimated at eur 600 billion, or 8% of annual turnover, while reducing total annual greenhouse gas emissions by 2-4% and ultimately leading to increased resource productivity of up to 30% by 2030.
written.
‒ increased demand for resources and competition have led to high environmental pressures and the need to move to a circular economy that will preserve the environment, increase efficiency and product value added, contribute to new economic growth and employment opportunities, and reduce waste to near zero.
the unsustainability of the current system and the need for a major change are also reflected in the fact that the world economy uses the equivalent of one and a half planets to produce and absorb waste globally, and that this figure is estimated to reach two planets by the 2030s.
‒ while i support in principle the call for a circular economy based on the link between better use of resources and minimisation of waste, i cannot support the overly restrictive nature of certain requirements in the report, such as the requirement to extend the reach of the eco-directive beyond energy-related products or the requirement to prevent manufacturers from shortening the shelf life of products in order to increase sales.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's integrated approach to waste management and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's integrated approach to waste management and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's integrated approach to waste management.
‒ in 2014, the commission drafted a revised proposal for a regulation on maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident, based on the legal basis of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community (euratom), which is to be approved or rejected by the european parliament.
the amendments are not consistent with the objective of preserving euratom as a separate organisation responsible for the functioning of the nuclear energy sector, which is, inter alia, to establish and ensure the implementation of uniform safety standards for the protection of the health of workers and the general public.
i believe that euratom should remain the organisation responsible for all aspects of the functioning of the energy sector, including the consequences of possible nuclear accidents, as the european parliament is not an expert in this area.
such financing creates a positive environment and conditions for the creation of new jobs.
it is necessary to create the conditions for restoring confidence in the real economy of the eu, based on clear commitments at member state and union level to foster a positive investment climate and legal certainty for investors, formulating long-term objectives for a regulatory framework that will act as a stabiliser and foster competitiveness and growth.
the future of europe is linked to the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the current impact of foreign policy can be judged to be very weak since it is not successful in attempting to respond to environmental problems.
i supported the report by mr cookan because i believe that we need a strategic, more active and consistently implemented external policy of the european union, capable of resolving conflicts in a timely and peaceful manner and of creating a stable and secure international environment.
the launch of the commission communication on the amendments to the directive required by the extremely rapid development in the digital environment since 2001, when it was signed, is commendable.
‒ i support the amendment of directive 2001/29/ec on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, in line with the previously obtained opinions of the committee on legal affairs, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
the commission notes that the eed has been established in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and that the eed has been set up to promote the development of the union's energy sector.
‒ given the need to promote objective and independent information and strengthen the media environment, including on the internet and social media, in the countries within the geographical scope of the eed's work, protecting freedom of the press and expression and fighting against all forms of social and political censorship, and also supporting democratization efforts in those countries, including strengthening the rule of law and fighting corruption, i support the importance and results of the eed's work.
i welcome the results achieved so far within the eed in the current challenging international environment.
the eed fulfils its main objective 'to promote and foster democratisation and the achievement of deep and sustainable democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation', inter alia by providing support to those without it, which includes fighting corruption, promoting dialogue in diversity and non-violence, encouraging social and political participation and protecting activists and journalists who are making the greatest effort at local level to enable and accelerate the democratic process, making justice more accessible and therefore deserving of our continued support.
‒ i welcome the results achieved within the european endowment for democracy (eed) in the current challenging international environment and believe that the eed is fulfilling its main objective of promoting and fostering democratisation and achieving deep and sustainable democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation.
the eed delivers results in the international environment in which it operates and provides support for democracy, civil society organisations, social movements and activists.
i therefore support the recommendation that the european endowment for democracy be guaranteed long-term sustainable funding so that it can continue to develop innovative ways and instruments to promote democracy.
it is necessary to take all measures that will lead to the reduction of instability and to launch all the earlier measures aimed at creating a democratic environment as a prerequisite for the development of this one of the poorest countries in the world.
it is necessary to postpone the elections so that they can take place in a safe environment and not in an atmosphere of unrest, fear, human rights violations and general chaos as is currently present in this country which is why i supported the european parliament's resolution on the situation in burundi.
we don't spend much time and energy on his right to live off his own work, instead of having the state take most of his income, or the right to raise his own children, instead of being indoctrinated through the public education system.
the only motive for applying such controversial techniques is profit, thus undermining competitiveness and unnecessarily increasing efficiency, especially when it comes to agricultural production, which is sufficient in the european union and which results in huge surpluses that unfortunately result in food waste.
i therefore believe that it is essential to raise public awareness and to further protect biodiversity, which is one of europe's greatest values.
‒ in implementing union policy and taking into account the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a high level of protection of human health and consumer protection, as well as a high level of animal welfare and environmental protection, should be ensured.
this policy has so far had a positive impact on the lives of many eu citizens, on the quality of life in rural areas, on food production, but also on the environment and nature protection.
it is necessary to regulate the legislation, to create a favourable administrative climate that would enable such companies to operate successfully and a more successful national economy.
it is necessary to create measures that would strengthen the economic environment and the development of family businesses at the european union level, to raise awareness of the problems related to family businesses, and we in croatia base our programmes on family businesses and in this way we want to start croatia.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment in the context of the union's action plan for the environment.
it is important to provide family businesses with quality sources of finance and a positive investment climate.
i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal proposing measures to develop the model and policy of family businesses, given that family businesses are expected to be characterised by high integrity and values in their business activities and to introduce high standards of corporate social responsibility towards employees and the environment, thus also creating a favourable environment for reconciling business and private life.
‒ i support the report because it is necessary to create the right and sustainable conditions for the survival and business success of family farms and enterprises, since they represent more than 60% of enterprises and almost 50% of private sector jobs across the european union.
in order to help businesses adapt to a rapidly changing environment, i believe that one of the most important elements is a training programme for small businesses, which will certainly be helped by the establishment of a single contact point for businesses at european level to which they can turn for assistance on specific issues relating to legislation and access to eu funding.
the blue economy covers a wide range of economic sectors, from traditional to new, from fisheries to aquaculture, maritime transport, inland waterways, ports, logistics, tourism, shipbuilding, maritime works and coast guard, offshore energy sources, etc.
the potential for exploiting marine resources is large and focused on the development of sustainable renewable energy sources and could make a significant contribution to the european union's energy security strategy by reducing member states' dependence on energy sources outside the european union.
the most important of these are fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and river transport, ports and logistics, tourism and leisure and cruising, shipbuilding and ship repair, maritime works and coastal protection, exploration and exploitation of mineral resources in the sea, exploitation of offshore wind and marine energy, and biotechnology.
the blue economy, however, should pay particular attention to the conservation of the marine ecosystem and environment.
‒ the sea has always been one of the main sources of livelihood for people living on the coast, whether it be fishing, tourism, shipbuilding or even the sea as a source of energy.
the concept of the blue economy focuses on sustainable economic activities that meet the needs of current and future generations and create prosperity for society.
the commission should also be able to provide the member states with the necessary information to enable them to assess the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment in the light of the objectives of the union's climate action and energy policy.
i come from a country that is part of the strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, whose primary objective is to steer the entire region towards a future of sustainable economic and social prosperity.
the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of economic activities related to the seas and oceans, such as fishing, maritime and river transport, tourism and recreational boating and cruising, shipbuilding and repair, maritime works and coastal protection, exploration and exploitation of energy sources, and others.
given the importance of the report, both for job creation and for the sustainable use of marine resources, i voted in favour of its adoption.
the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of economic sectors related to seas and oceans, including fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland waterway transport, ports, tourism, sailing and cruising, shipbuilding and vessel repair, maritime works and coast guard, mineral and energy resources and biotechnology.
as the report itself notes, a better understanding of the seas and oceans and marine life, as well as the implementation of environmental impact assessments, is needed.
the report notes that land-based models that will consume resources quickly do not need to be repeated, and that the sustainable development of the blue economy requires more transparent access to data and research projects, as well as education and training.
i believe that the sustainable development of the blue economy could provide a strong stimulus to growth and economic development and job creation in the member states, especially in coastal regions and island countries.
i agree that it would also have a positive impact on the unemployment problem, which croatia, for example, is struggling with, with as much as 17.5% according to the latest surveys from april 2015. i also agree that innovation and sustainability should be the key pillars of the blue economy to create growth and jobs, thereby meeting the needs of current and future generations of society.
the concept includes traditional and new economic sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, maritime transport, inland waterways, ports, tourism, biotechnology and offshore mineral and energy resources.
one example is shipbuilding, where specialisation of production allows a sustainable and competitive operation of a shipyard with strong competition in east asia.
the remaining opportunities in the 'blue economy' point to the need for long-term and sustainable development, which can only be achieved through education, training and further research.
i support the call on the commission to assess, in cooperation with the member states, the financing needs of the blue economy in order to achieve sustainable growth, development and job creation potential, focusing on fisheries-dependent regions.
i therefore believe that support for the modernisation and sustainable development of the fisheries and fishery products sector, with a focus on small-scale fisheries, will be extremely beneficial.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection, including on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
‒ i support the report on a holistic approach to cultural heritage in europe, which aims to highlight the underestimated role of european cultural heritage as a source of social innovation for smart and sustainable growth, addressing challenges such as lack of financial resources, technological change and globalisation, tourism inflows, trade in cultural goods, etc.
in this context, it is necessary to ensure more efficient and effective european programmes and funds in order to preserve and exploit europe's cultural heritage in a sustainable way.
it is the duty of the member states to protect water sources from privatisation and pollution.
there is an urgent need to address water pollution and to provide citizens with an insight into water quality.
from an environmental perspective, good water management will become a priority in the coming decades, as water is important for economic development, energy stability and agricultural production, and without water there is no life.
furthermore, under the european fund for strategic investments, newer member states should start preparing for future investment by implementing the necessary reforms, removing administrative barriers and joining energy, construction and it consortia and clusters in order to avoid the possibility that the funds from the new fund are used only by more developed countries with better quality projects and better references.
with institutional changes we have moved on from women-focused programmes, which are useful initiatives but are not necessarily sustainable in the long run.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau, as it gives its consent to the conclusion of the protocol promoting the authentic sustainable development of the fisheries of the republic of guinea-bissau, with an additional assessment of natural resources.
however, more reliable catch data and protection of fisheries resources are needed to preserve biodiversity, to improve the fisheries-related sectors of the economy and to enhance the traditional and other fishing practices of the local population.
the protocols for the implementation of the agreement were in force until june 2012 and a new fisheries agreement was signed in november 2014. the financial assistance provided by the eu amounts to eur 9,2 million per year and the main objectives of the agreement are to: provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in guinea-bissau waters within the permitted limits and to enhance cooperation as a basis for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the exploitation of fishery resources in the guinea-bissau fishing zone.
i also support the provision in this agreement that eur 3 million will be invested in the development of guinea-bissau's fishing sector in order to exploit the fisheries potential they have in abundance as efficiently as possible and to use it for the sustainable development of the country.
in addition, i also support the prevention of illegal fishing and the promotion of sustainable development of fisheries policy, with a strong focus on the conservation of fisheries resources.
this agreement promotes the genuinely sustainable development of the guinea-bissau fisheries sector, in particular local industries, but also underlines the need to establish better links between the sectoral support provided under the fisheries agreement and the instruments available under development cooperation, in particular the european development fund.
i supported the report by mr ferreira, as the european union should do everything in its power to ensure that sustainable fisheries agreements with third countries are in the interest of both parties.
such a protocol, which aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau in the fisheries sector, is in the interest of both countries as it establishes a framework for the implementation of a sustainable and long-term fisheries policy.
it also places great emphasis on the responsible and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and provides for the possibility of technical assistance needed by the republic of guinea-bissau, including, inter alia, institutional capacity building, training of fisheries experts, partnership with small-scale fisheries, and a stronger focus on policies that recognise the important role of women in fisheries.
i also support the provision in this report that, in addition to the eur 6.2 million for the transfer of fisheries resources, eur 3 million will be invested in the development of guinea-bissau's fishing sector in order to exploit the fisheries potential that it has in abundance as efficiently as possible and to use it for the sustainable development of the country.
i believe that this strengthens the cape verdean economy and the sustainable exploitation of marine resources.
the enhanced cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde through the establishment of a partnership framework is beneficial for the establishment of a sustainable fisheries policy and the exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone in the territory of the republic of cape verde, to the mutual benefit of both the republic of cape verde and the european union.
i agree that the protocol is beneficial to both parties in order to allow access to fisheries resources and their sustainable exploitation.
the cape verdean economy will prosper through better exploitation of its resources in accordance with the principles of sustainable fisheries, while the european union will gain access to the cape verdean fishing zone.
i consider it particularly useful in terms of sustainable use of resources that the european union's financial assistance will be used to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, thereby also developing economic activities in the fisheries sector.
i consider that an appropriate level of protection of sharks is an essential factor in the sustainable exploitation of the resource, which is duly recognised in this protocol.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a non-legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of cape verde, as that protocol strengthens cooperation in the field of exploitation of marine resources and sustainable fisheries policy.
however, it is necessary to provide for a strong monitoring mechanism to ensure the sustainable use of resources and to promote economic, environmental and economic sensitivity.
‒ i supported the report by mr van daalen as the purpose of signing the new protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and cape verde in order to establish a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources.
the commission has decided to establish a monitoring mechanism to ensure the sustainable use of resources and to establish an intervention framework to better manage and standardise the evaluation of the protocol.
in addition, one of the objectives of the agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the republic of cape verde and the european union in promoting a sustainable fisheries policy and the rational exploitation of fisheries resources in the cape verdean fishing zone.
i believe that these two documents will make a major contribution to the protection of fisheries resources, the protection of fishermen and the creation of a sustainable fisheries policy.
i agree that this is a mutually beneficial agreement that allows access to fisheries resources but also their sustainable exploitation.
i support the conclusion of a protocol which, inter alia, introduces a close monitoring mechanism based on the exchange of quarterly data on shark catches to ensure sustainable exploitation of the resource.
i consider that this agreement was adopted in accordance with the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy and the environmental and socio-economic aspects.
although research has shown that the exploitation of certain shark species, which account for the majority of total catches, is within safe biological limits, i support the call for guarantees that this fishing will be carried out in a sustainable and responsible manner.
however, i believe that such activities must take account first of all of the sustainable exploitation of marine, i.e.
fisheries, resources and pay particular attention to the conservation of biodiversity and the environment.
the new draft protocol was proposed on 19 june 2014 and aims to provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in malagasy waters within the permitted limits and to enhance cooperation between the eu and madagascar, creating a partnership that is the basis for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the exploitation of fishery resources in the malagasy fishing zone.
the main objective of the agreement is to achieve cooperation between the european union and madagascar by establishing a partnership with a focus on sustainable fisheries.
it is very important to work on the development of sustainable fisheries and to provide financial assistance to madagascar, which is why i support the extension of the fisheries partnership agreement between madagascar and the european union.
i particularly support the provisions on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, given that as much as 90% of plant and animal species are endemic, which best demonstrates the exceptional value and level of biodiversity on this island, which we must treat responsibly.
the primary objective of the agreement is to allow eu vessels to fish in the fishing zone of the republic of madagascar, in accordance with the measures adopted by the competent regional fisheries management organisation, namely the iotc, and, in particular, to enhance cooperation between the european union and madagascar by establishing a framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and setting out measures for the exploitation of resources in the fishing zone of madagascar to the benefit of both parties.
reducing overall costs and increasing trade are creating a better investment climate around the world.
i supported the report by mr zalba because the implementation of the agreement will provide an opportunity for developing countries, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to have a friendly business environment and will allow citizens easier access to a wider variety of products at lower prices.
the adoption of these measures improves the climate in trade relations between eu member states, but also with non-eu countries, and empowers the european union to increase cooperation or partnership with developing or underdeveloped countries.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol amending the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation, as it will improve the business environment, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, and will benefit developing countries and ldcs.
i believe that the tfa will enable the modernisation of customs between the 161 wto members and bring the greatest benefit to developing and least developed countries in particular, by creating a better business environment and reducing uncertainty in terms of market entry conditions and the cost of trade.
it also reduces costs, and increases trade in both imports and exports, while also creating a better investment climate around the world.
‒ i cannot support a system of forced relocation of migrants and asylum seekers, because i believe that a much more effective and sustainable approach to tackling the current crisis is to build trust through a voluntary system in which each member state would be ready to offer financial and other assistance to those member states that are on the front lines; for now, these are italy and greece.
‒ many of the challenges facing europe today are economic, climate, environmental and social and are manifested around cities, e.g.
poverty, social and spatial segregation, environmental degradation, or find their solutions in and through cities, e.g.
functional urban areas in the eu form a single polycentric structure built around large, medium and small cities and surrounding areas, thus transcending traditional administrative boundaries to encompass different areas linked by their economic, social, environmental and demographic challenges.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances and the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
eu policies should thus support small and large cities and functional urban areas and enable them to reach their full potential as drivers of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development.
i support the report by rapporteur westphal on the proposal for a council decision on the urban dimension of eu policies, which aims to address urban challenges for eu policy-makers and to design guidelines and boundaries for future sustainable eu urban development policies.
in the light of all of the above, i agree that eu policy should support small and large cities and functional urban areas and enable them to reach their full potential as drivers of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development.
‒ i support this report because most of the current challenges facing europe, especially those related to the economy, climate, society and the environment, poverty, social and spatial segregation and so on, are manifested in or around cities.
this is sustainable as long as gdp is growing strongly and the demographic picture is moving in the direction of increasing the working age population.
the recent law on undesirable foreign and international organisations contributes further to the deterioration of an already difficult environment for civil society organisations.
in this repressive climate, members of civil society who do not agree with the authorities are identified as enemies of the state.
the russian authorities must put an end to the climate of suspicion, hatred and intolerance of diversity of opinion prevalent in russia today.
i supported the report which highlights the importance of cohesion policy as the main instrument for reducing economic, social and territorial disparities between european regions with the aim of sustainable development and competitiveness and for investing in the real economy with a budget of €350 billion.
croatia lacks economic growth due to the government's lack of knowledge of european policies, sound economic governance and administrative capacity and i call on our government and the governments of other member states to regularly discuss cohesion policy instruments and ensure a stable fiscal and economic environment for possible policy action.
i also see the importance of this proposal in its promotion of strategic objectives with the potential to promote growth, create jobs, social inclusion, environmental potential and climate change potential.
i support the report by mr deutsch and also agree with the recommendation that further efforts should be made to simplify procedures to increase access to and absorption of funds and thereby balance the union's economic and social priorities on the one hand and social inclusion, education and sustainable development on the other.
i would like to emphasise that the crisis-management performance of europe's border and cross-border regions needs to be improved by smarter, more inclusive and sustainable growth.
‒ given that the average age of europeans is estimated to be over 50 years by 2050, it is necessary to develop specific targets to ensure the sustainability of the demographic situation.
the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations aims to promote awareness raising about the value of active ageing and active ageing policies at union and member state level and among all public and private sector stakeholders, as the average age in the eu is expected to be over 50 by 2050. the report is of particular importance as the eu is facing unprecedented demographic, social and structural changes that need to be addressed without delay, as the general ageing of the population is accompanied by an increase in social care needs, health needs and care needs for older people and their families, and the long-term quality and sustainability of public services in the eu will depend largely on the measures taken over the next few years.
‒ a sustainable european mobility policy must be based on a wide range of policy measures for a cost-effective transition to the least environmentally harmful and most energy-efficient modes of transport.
but transport remains almost entirely dependent on fossil fuels and is the only sector in which greenhouse gas emissions have increased in the last 25 years, with growth in emissions that, had it not been for the economic crisis, could have been even higher.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: 'review of the state of play and the way forward towards sustainable mobility' because it is clear that there has been a lot of progress in this sector.
air transport, for example, faces challenges and threats from the internal and external markets, while greenhouse gas emissions are still too high.
at the same time, the proposals aim to reduce oil imports to europe and reduce carbon emissions from transport by 60% by 2050. the transport sector is the driving force behind the european union's economy.
it employs some 10 million people and accounts for around 5% of gdp and as such should remain at the forefront of generating further economic growth and jobs and promoting competitiveness, sustainable development and territorial cohesion.
i supported the report by mr van de camp as it is essential for the sustainable development of european transport and promotes the introduction of alternative fuels to reduce the dependence of transport on fossil fuels, improve air quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it is also necessary to move towards the least environmentally harmful and most energy-efficient modes of transport, in particular those using renewable energy sources.
measures towards faster mobility would stimulate further economic growth and job creation and promote competitiveness, sustainable development and territorial cohesion, since trade is the foundation for the free movement of people, goods and services on which the single market is based and since free movement is at the same time a powerful driver of union integration and a key factor in the implementation of european industry and trade.
the transport sector is a driving force of the eu economy, employing some 10 million people and accounting for around 5% of gdp, and should remain at the forefront of generating further economic growth and jobs, and promoting competitiveness and sustainable development.
it is also necessary to reduce europe's dependence on imported oil and carbon, which are still overused in transport.
this report is in line with the policies of the european union and, through a holistic approach to the problem, supports the growth and development of the transport sector, greater technological advancement and maintenance of transport infrastructures, environmental awareness, and sound legal regulation.
‒ i supported the report which analyses and assesses the implementation of the ambitious objectives of the transport white paper and encourages the achievement of a more efficient, sustainable, competitive and integrated transport system.
given that gender equality is a fundamental prerequisite for the full enjoyment of human rights for women and girls and is fundamental to their empowerment and the achievement of a sustainable and inclusive society, the eu should encourage member states to recognise the potential of quality vocational guidance and training to encourage girls to pursue education in stem fields.
despite these campaigns, the current situation in gender equality is still far from satisfactory and therefore there is a need to continue to work on strategies that will lead to improvements in the status of women in the business world and in the environment.
gender equality is key to achieving a sustainable and inclusive society.
we call on all member states to adapt legislation as soon as possible, to implement a common asylum system and to strengthen the union's role in finding a long-term and sustainable solution to the conflict.
the last point i would like to make is the need to find the cause of this migration crisis and to find sustainable solutions to the conflicts in the union's neighbourhood, because what is happening there has repercussions for us, the citizens of the european union, and this migration crisis has shown us that.
peace in the middle east is even more necessary at a time when conflicts in the region are increasing and the signed nuclear agreement with iran has created a favourable environment for the continuation of the peace process.
i hope that the process of releasing the six political prisoners is an indication of the belarusian authorities' desire to participate in democratic processes and that such moves are not a gathering of political and international sympathies, but a sincere intention to reform the political environment in belarus.
i believe that it is necessary to upgrade and improve the current socio-economic model to ensure faster and sustainable growth.
the purpose of a social economy enterprise is to achieve its social objectives such as creating jobs for the most vulnerable groups, creating a positive impact on society and the environment, etc.
social entrepreneurship is an important driver of social cohesion and sustainability that can drive economic growth while reducing poverty, social exclusion and other social problems.
‒ i supported a report that recognises the social entrepreneurship model as an opportunity for young people to offer innovative responses to current economic, social and environmental challenges, including by creating jobs for groups that are most often excluded from the open labour market, but also contributing to economic growth.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century: matching skills and qualifications with demand and employment opportunities as a way of recovering from the crisis, because serious reforms of the labour market and economic policies are needed to achieve inclusive, smart and sustainable growth in the european union and to overcome the consequences of the economic and financial crisis.
i believe that this can create a labour market that is globally competitive and sustainable.
ambitious economic policies and labour market reforms are needed to foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and create new jobs that deliver quality and sustainable employment.
i supported the report by ms dlabajova because i believe that there is a need to work continuously to link education, training and labour markets at all levels and to foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
according to the commission, a maximum of 12,4 million people have been unemployed for more than one year, of which 6 million have been unemployed for more than two years, posing a threat to the labour market as long-term unemployment negatively affects economic growth and the sustainability of the social welfare system.
the pillars of eu growth and development are smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the eu.
the four main areas where the highest number of cases were initiated were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and internal market and services issues, which were identified as priority areas in this report.
it's a global economy that doesn't condemn millions, if not billions, of human beings to total destitution, not to mention climate refugees, refugees who are already the victims, today, of climate problems and global warming.
that is why the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is so important and must be a top priority for europe, because here too we are in the front line if we fail to combat poverty effectively in our neighbours, in our african neighbours and elsewhere.
following the work of the addis ababa conference on financing for development, the sustainable development summit in new york is the second major milestone of this year 2015, which should hopefully - i believe that hopes are justified - conclude with the adoption of a universal climate agreement in december in paris at cop 21. the final outcome of the post-2015 process can be considered as overall satisfactory.
indeed, the european union's main objective of adopting an ambitious, transformative and sustainable sustainable development agenda has been more or less achieved.
the agenda includes a set of objectives that integrate in a balanced way the three dimensions of sustainable development and pursue a primary objective: poverty eradication.
it is not just for developing countries, it is an agenda for sustainable development.
member states will also need to review their sustainable development strategies and instruments in the light of the 2030 agenda.
in implementing the 2030 agenda, we also need to ensure that the balance between the three dimensions of sustainable development - economic, social and environmental - is maintained, and i count on the support of parliament.
on the council side, the ministers for development and environment will have the opportunity to discuss the continuation of the process and the coordination of the process on 26 october in luxembourg.
there are also strong links between the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the cop 21 conference, which will take place in paris from 30 november to 11 december.
with regard to this paris conference, reconciling development and climate action is possible, but it is not only possible, it is absolutely essential.
this is why the 2030 agenda for sustainable development has created a new objective: urgent action to combat climate change and its consequences.
this objective calls for an ambitious and universal agreement in december in paris at cop 21. preparing for cop 21 is one of the main priorities of our presidency and this friday the environment and finance ministers will be discussing climate finance at their meeting.
the environment council will adopt conclusions as early as friday which will serve as a mandate for cop 21. the position of the european union and its member states is clear.
the 2015 agreement should, firstly, be a universal and legally binding agreement to effectively combat climate change and to contain the increase in the average global temperature to at least two degrees below pre-industrial levels.
second, a deal that is made to last, that offers a long-term vision of the transformation needed towards resilient, low-carbon societies and economies that are able to withstand the effects of climate change.
we need a sound, rules-based regime, including rules on monitoring, verification of emissions and clear compatibility of emissions for all countries.
the parties' actions will need to be irreversible and to move towards low carbon emissions.
an agreement with a long-term objective, which should send a strong signal for transforming the development trajectories of countries to become low-carbon economies that are resilient to the effects of climate change.
i would add that funding will be an important element, with a public and private commitment at the heart of the scheme of $100 billion a year by 2020 from developed countries to the poorest and most vulnerable countries, and more broadly, a re-direction of investment towards low-carbon and economically viable technologies.
this is a great prospect for rebooting our economies and making a real technological leap and supporting sustainable growth.
first vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i will make some specific comments on development—related elements for the summit on sustainable development and cop 21, but before doing this, i want to make a more general remark.
it is almost a year ago that, in the course of the hearings in this parliament, president juncker decided to hand me responsibility for sustainable development in a broad sense to create coherence in our policies.
i really want to make sure that we are coherent, because sustainable development has three main aspects: obviously environmental; but also economic, and social.
these elements have a role inside the european union, and obviously worldwide, and as long as we are not able to create coherence between these different dimensions our approach will not be successful enough and will, if it continues to be contradictory, also lead to a waste of financial resources, human resources, political resources.
the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is going to be a landmark achievement, i think, because it has an inclusive nature already.
there are 17 sustainable development goals which follow and expand on the mdgs.
as i said, they would have to integrate economic, social and environmental dimensions, as well as human rights, gender equality, the rule of law, good governance and peaceful and inclusive societies.
first, we need to deliver the 20% of climate-relevant finance for our development budget, including the development cooperation instrument and the european development fund, which will result in more than eur 9 billion in climate finance between 2014 and 2020. this is more than double what was delivered during the previous period.
we are making a significant effort to reach this target and have actively contributed to the climate finance report the oecd is preparing for the special world bank and imf meeting in lima in october.
second, we are preparing to launch specific new climate-relevant initiatives, including a new phase of the global climate change alliance with a budget of at least eur 350 million that will support adaptation to climate in vulnerable countries, notably least-developed countries and small island developing states.
it will also provide support to accessible low-carbon energy through: bilateral and thematic programmes with around eur 3.6 billion, including the new innovative electrification financing initiative, (electrfi), which will help mobilise private investment in this area; support to sustainable agriculture and food security, eur 8.8 billion; and up to eur 50 billion of investment through our blending facilities, with our climate change windows being a key mobilising more climate finance from other public and private investors.
the un sustainable development summit in new york must answer why the fight against poverty and climate change is failing.
i stress the need for an agenda like the 2030 agenda for sustainable development so that as a group of globally interdependent political actors we have clearly set priorities and goals that we need to work towards to end poverty in all its forms.
mr president, i would like to express my firm position and support for the european union's single energy market because i think that this single energy market really has no alternative.
but what i would like to emphasize and repeat in my speech, mr sefcovic, is to draw your attention to the energy resources that exist in the western balkans, from the planned construction of lng terminals in croatia and albania, but also to renewable energy sources, especially hydropower, in the countries of south-east europe and those outside the eu, from where the refugees are coming.
so maybe we can have a win-win combination where we have renewable energy and we help developing countries and we stop the refugee flows from those countries.
it also needs to further encourage green investment and raise awareness of environmental and health issues.
welcomes the adoption of the european fund for strategic investments and the european migration agenda by the commission and calls for the swift implementation of these programmes; the commission is invited to draw up a coherent and clear foreign and security policy strategy, which would seek to identify new and upcoming challenges facing the eu in a volatile security environment.
the commission should present initiatives aimed at establishing a 2030 climate and energy framework for the purpose of concluding a global climate agreement.
the commission's future work programmes should address key challenges of the 21st century such as climate change, energy independence, resource efficiency, the transition to a digital society, global competition, gender equality, while taking into account the cost of a disunited europe.
i join the calls on the commission, given that the eu's main challenge remains to regain the trust of its citizens, which should be seen as a source of hope and a driver of sustainable growth, job creation and greater social cohesion, to use all its powers to lead the way in deepening european integration and to put forward an agenda to improve europe's economic recovery in a fair and inclusive single market while creating more quality jobs and reducing social inequalities.
‒ i support the joint resolution on the commission's work programme for 2016. the europe 2020 strategy remains a firm foundation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union, which must respond to key challenges of the 21st century such as global competition, climate change, energy independence, resource efficiency and rising inequality and unemployment.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy strategy and the eu's energy strategy.
timely and effective implementation of reforms to modernise the state and the economy, as agreed under the third programme, is crucial to ensure financial stability, fiscal sustainability and sound economic fundamentals for investment, job creation and growth.
we may have stopped giving the greeks unconditional gifts of european taxpayers' money, but we continue to encourage them to overspend with formulations like this that public investment sets as a prerequisite for sustainable recovery.
i am convinced that the newly adopted 2030 agenda for sustainable development can only be of benefit if all actors are involved and mobilised.
to that end, all public and private representatives, including local authorities, have to be involved in the implementation of the sustainable development goals.
but beyond the specific sustainable development goal, cities will be the frontline of all other issues, including migration, environmental sustainability, climate resilience, fragility and inequalities.
madam president, here we are ten days ago at the united nations summit, where heads of state and government adopted a new sustainable development agenda.
implementing as many as 17 sustainable development goals is a major challenge and requires the formation of a global partnership involving all actors.
in the final document adopted in new york, a separate objective 11 on sustainable urban development was also adopted.
i must say that the role of local and regional authorities can be crucial for the faster development of a country, for tackling unemployment, for stronger social, economic or environmental policies.
better transport and energy connectivity between these countries will contribute not only to economic growth but also to their better understanding of each other.
‒ i support this report because it is in the spirit of democracy, christian democratic principles and humanity to help people, and consequently bulgaria and greece, which have recently experienced three natural disasters in their own climate.
in addition, the extension of protection will contribute to the sustainability of the operations of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the european union's economy and employ some 33 million people.
‒ greece has been particularly affected by the consequences of the financial crisis, followed by a multi-year steady decline in gdp, which has caused a serious lack of liquidity and of the public funds needed to stimulate a sustainable recovery.
‒ i support this report because the financial crisis in greece has led to negative gdp growth rates in greece for many years, and has caused a lack of liquidity and a lack of public funds for public investment needed to spur a sustainable recovery.
the country is currently facing a lack of liquidity and public funds needed for public investments to ensure a sustainable recovery.
the role of local authorities is crucial for the faster development of countries, it is important for economic and social development and environmental protection.
‒ local authorities are the main drivers of promoting and integrating the social, economic and environmental dimensions of development.
however, excessive urbanisation can jeopardise the sustainability of development in all its dimensions.
such challenges include social exclusion, migration, food security, resource depletion, public security and violence, climate adaptation, rule of law, access to justice and more.
it is precisely because of the indispensable role of local actors in the development of sustainable cooperation and their close links with the local population that i support this report.
in this regard, the proposal's emphasis on strengthening the capacity of local authorities to achieve the integration of the social, economic and environmental dimensions of development is particularly important and commendable.
strengthening local authorities implies efforts to develop sustainable and institutionalised forms of cooperation and communication between all levels of government within the eu, but also horizontally with other stakeholders such as civil society organisations and the private sector.
‒ good governance at local level is essential to achieving sustainable development.
it is necessary to encourage partnerships between local authorities in member states and developing countries to achieve greater good, such as better planning for environmental protection.
increasing democratic decision-making at local level and sustainable territorial development based on the participation of the local community will lead to the empowerment of local authorities.
the rio declaration emphasises the key role of indigenous peoples and their communities in development and environmental management.
climate change and environmental degradation threaten poverty reduction and pose a major challenge to local governments.
this responsibility concerns in particular effective public administration, a greater number of large-scale development processes in cooperation with civil society organisations, and finding solutions to urgent challenges faced by local communities, such as social isolation, migration, food security, rapid urbanisation, public safety and the environmental impact of extractive activities.
the quality of local government governance is primarily linked to the central government's willingness to create an environment in which the local government will acquire certain capabilities and effectively implement them in its own area.
i support this view because good governance at the local level is necessary to achieve sustainable development and ensure fair outcomes.
what about the european commission's policy of promoting green public procurement in public companies and the public sector, especially in transport, precisely to achieve climate and health objectives?
because it is the states that have introduced the polluter pays system and that's how the funds are being filled to finance the development of renewable energy and clean transport.
madam president, mr commissioner, air pollution has a significant impact on the environment and on health.
according to data presented by the clean air for europe programme in 2013, the annual premature deaths due to air pollution reached 400 000 people in 2010. the total external cost of air pollution impacts on health ranges from 330 to 940 billion euros.
the latest european environment agency report on air quality in the european union shows that the average air quality in the european union has been improving since 2003. however, the pollution problem in central europe and some other parts of europe is still acute.
unfortunately, croatia is suffering from cross-border air pollution from neighboring bosnia and herzegovina due to the operation of the refinery in bosanski brod, but we also have a problem with the import of pollution from other neighboring countries.
it is necessary to introduce minimum requirements for the emissions of pollutants into the air for 150 000 medium combustion plants, while keeping the administrative burden to the lowest possible level.
given the enormous costs of transport and accommodation in strasbourg and the harmful impact on the environment, i believe these are realistic requirements which could greatly reduce the operating costs of this institution.
tunisia has a long-term economic development strategy, which is based on the principles of sustainable development, sustainable development and sustainable development.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants, because this proposal improves air quality and because it identifies the high harmfulness of polluted air, i.e.
i support the fact that this will reduce pollution caused by nitrogen and sulphur oxides and dust emissions by setting limits for new and existing plants.
i believe it is crucial to ensure, through joint efforts and synergies both at european and global level, the highest level of environmental protection and to act in accordance with climate change.
‒ there are currently around 150 000 medium-sized combustion plants in the eu, which are a significant source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions.
while the operation of small combustion plants is regulated by directive 2009/125/ec and that of large combustion plants by directive 2010/75/eu, emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants are not regulated at eu level.
i supported the report by mr gryzba as this union action is important to establish a coherent and ambitious framework to tackle emissions.
‒ air pollution has a significant impact on the environment and health.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, and to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the environment.
‒ emissions of certain substances from combustion plants, and the resulting pollution of air quality, are a major health and environmental problem throughout europe, including in croatia, despite existing regulations and laws that try to reduce these emissions to minimum levels.
it is therefore commendable that the european parliament and the council have decided to propose a directive relating to the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants, as large and small combustion plants are already covered by eu legislation.
the agreed text of the proposal also contains rules for monitoring carbon dioxide emissions and for improving the energy efficiency of medium-sized installations.
i believe that the proposal for a directive in question will allow for an effective reduction in emissions from medium-sized installations, paving the way for a green economy and renewable energy sources and reducing greenhouse gases.
‒ air pollution is a major cross-border problem and many member states want to limit emissions of certain pollutants into the air from neighbouring countries.
action at union level is therefore needed to establish a coherent and ambitious emissions framework.
there are already regulated provisions implementing the directive of the european parliament and of the council of 21 october 2009 establishing a framework for the setting of requirements for eco-designed energy products.
first, according to the commission's impact assessment, air pollution will lead to more than 400,000 premature deaths a year and health costs of up to €940 billion.
air pollution also contributes to significant environmental degradation and economic damage.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment.
this will create a favourable environment for european companies in green innovation, with huge export potential.
‒ over the past decade, emissions of air pollutants have been significantly reduced, but at the same time air pollution levels remain problematic in many parts of europe.
and are an important source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions.
they are designed to make a significant contribution to reducing pollution of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust where limit values are set for new and existing plants, together with a simple registration scheme, to enable a significant reduction of emissions of harmful gases into the air.
‒ i support this report because the decision of the european parliament and the council confirms that emissions of pollutants into the air have been significantly reduced, but also that pollutant levels remain problematic in many parts of europe and that union citizens continue to be exposed to air pollutants.
therefore, in order to ensure a healthy environment for all, the action programme calls for complementary measures at local, national and union level.
however, the union's international obligations in relation to air pollution to combat acidification, eutrophication and ground-level ozone were agreed by the gothenburg protocol to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution and to reinforce existing obligations to reduce sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds.
they are also major sources of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and particulate matter emissions.
the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of directive 2010/75/eu, the commission proposal would also include the regulation of such installations by setting limits for new and existing installations, as well as the establishment of a simple registration system which would oblige member states to reduce emissions of air pollutants.
although the air in my country, croatia, is relatively clean, some areas like slavonski brod in 2015 recorded increased air pollution which could be a sign of concern.
despite minor disagreements within the group, i nevertheless support this proposal to improve air quality in croatia and in other eu member states, and to reduce harmful emissions to the lowest possible level.
‒ i supported the directive on limiting emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants, which has not been regulated by eu law until now.
i believe that it will be of the utmost importance for the environment and the health of the citizens of the european union to limit the emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust from these plants, and i strongly support the possibility for member states to maintain or introduce even stricter protective measures, if this is in line with environmental quality standards.
since the directive recognises the need for flexibility in relation to installations used only in exceptional circumstances due to the technical and logistical problems associated with certain sites, i consider it particularly useful to provide that member states should set their own limit values for these installations in order to reduce their emissions to air and potential risks to human health.
‒ i supported the european parliament legislative resolution proposing amendments to the legislative act in the sense of the proposal of the parliamentary committee on the environment, health and food safety.
i also consider that member states should have a limit to adopt national measures on matters not harmonised by this directive and to adapt to the national, legal and administrative environment.
‒ i believe that these amendments will bring the rules of the financial regulation into line with directive 2014/24/eu on public procurement and thus contribute to improving the application of legislation in the field of labour law, environmental and social policy and to stricter penalties in cases of conflicts of interest and serious unprofessional practices, fraud, corruption, money laundering, terrorist financing, tax fraud, tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning.
madam president, the capital markets union is certainly something that, in combination with the plans that mr juncker has put forward on behalf of the commission, can make a significant contribution to a good investment climate.
madam president, it is five years since the ecological disaster in hungary which caused human casualties, immeasurable damage and long-term consequences in hungary, but also showed that such disasters operate beyond the borders of hungary.
what i would like to draw to the attention of our commissioner is that he ask the member states to analyse all the environmental bombs within their borders, because here i will give the example of croatia which has at least one more environmental bomb, also a pool of red mud unsuccessfully drained, marked by corruption in the place of obrovac next to the former clay factory.
it's a potential environmental bomb that could threaten the zrmanja river and the adriatic sea.
however, when it comes to cross-border impact, in bosnia and herzegovina near mostar, commissioner, we have 12 million tons in one pool of red mud that in the event of an accident can pollute the neretva river and cause long-term pollution in croatia in the neretva valley.
we confirmed this intention in the recent global process of adoption of the new sustainable development goals.
much more is going to be spent by programmes tackling other sectors and priorities – like agriculture, energy, justice and migration – that consistently take women’s and girls’ perspectives into account.
so we have to point out here that when it comes to sustainable development, it pays to empower women.
‒ i support this question, which was asked about the lessons learned from the ecological disaster that happened in hungary five years ago.
the collapse of the waste tank at the aluminum plant that caused the red mud contamination and over 150 injuries should be a warning to us all.
the correct enforcement of eu laws and the removal of inspection shortcomings are key measures to prevent such things from happening in the future, and the fight for a clean environment must be a priority, not just for us but for the many generations to come.
although red mud is explicitly classified as hazardous waste today, at the time of the biggest industrial disaster in hungary on 4 october 2010, this was not the case.
the accident has demonstrated the importance of the eu's civil protection mechanism, and highlighted the shortcomings of european environmental regulations and the problem of poor implementation of european laws.
the commission should be able to take into account the impact of the waste management and recycling policy of the member states and the union.
‒ on october 4, 2010, a dump of industrial waste in hungary collapsed, releasing nearly a million cubic meters of red mud that flooded several villages.
commission decision 2014/955/eu clearly classifies red sludge as hazardous waste and applies from 1 june 2015. the commission has also provided information on the number of inspections carried out by the member states in the past year.
the commission therefore considers that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed, it is also important to inform the public about the pollution and its possible effects on flora and fauna and on the health of the local population.
addressing industrial pollution that has been generated for years during the communist-run eastern states without proper care and appropriate activities to ensure the safe management of hazardous industrial waste is expensive, and the cost of the treatment must be borne by the states as the owners of the waste, in most cases failed facilities.
i support this resolution of the european parliament and, precisely to prevent a repetition of similar events, i call for an urgent debate on the implementation of the environmental liability directive with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage.
‒ given the environmental protection principles in eu legislation, particularly in the area of preventive action and the polluter pays principle, i welcome the efforts of this resolution to increase monitoring instruments and strengthen environmental inspections and raise environmental standards at red mud sites.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by member states on the environment and the environmentally sound management of waste.
the initiative for increased cooperation and coordinated action between national environmental inspection bodies of different member states is commendable.
the european commission has also launched a pilot project to develop a european waste management strategy to address the problem of waste management in the eu.
‒ on 4 october 2010, a waste tank in hungary burst, leaking nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, killing ten people and polluting a large area of land.
the red mud in that waste dump was hazardous waste, and this disaster is considered the worst industrial disaster in hungary.
the commission should submit a legislative proposal on access to justice in environmental matters by 2016 in line with the provisions of the seventh environment action programme and develop the concept of risk-sharing instruments for industrial disasters in full respect of the polluter-pays principle.
‒ i support this resolution because attention should be paid to environmental protection and the removal of previously caused pollution.
the explosion of a waste dump in hungary on october 4, 2010, released nearly one million cubic meters of highly alkaline red mud into the environment.
the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the protection of the environment and the environment in the eu.
on october 4, 2010, the collapse of a waste tank in hungary caused the release of nearly one million cubic meters of alkaline red mud, a toxic waste.
the commission has also examined whether the conditions for the classification of red mud as hazardous waste are met.
in addition, the improper treatment of hazardous waste in a number of member states, as well as mining for ore, cause serious environmental pollution problems.
the commission is therefore requested to place particular emphasis on research and development in the treatment of hazardous waste.
‒ i supported the question from the environment, public health and food safety committee of the european parliament as the case of the cracked waste container in hungary shows how obvious it is that the european union needs a stronger and more effective prevention strategy and proper implementation of european union legislation.
in october 2010, nearly a million cubic meters of highly alkaline red mud leaked into the environment in hungary, killing ten people, injuring nearly 150, and polluting large areas of land.
i believe that five years after that accident is more than enough time for the council to devise and take measures to prevent such catastrophic accidents in the future and to remove pollution from mining activities, which should help to preserve the environment and the safety and health of all citizens of the european union, not just hungarians.
the european union is committed to promoting equality, which is a prerequisite for achieving sustainable development, but it is also a human rights issue that needs special attention.
it is necessary, in cooperation with competent socio-political actors, to ensure an enabling environment, the removal of social and legal barriers, women's access to the means of production, gender-sensitive budgeting and, most importantly, a comprehensive eu approach to violence against women with increased efforts and resources to prevent and eliminate all discriminatory practices against women.
‒ the european union is committed to promoting gender equality and ensuring its inclusion in all areas of its action, as gender equality and the empowerment of women are prerequisites for achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals and also a separate human rights issue that should be addressed independently of its benefits for development and growth.
‒ the european union is committed to promoting gender equality at all levels and has identified it as a prerequisite for achieving its post-2015 sustainable development goals.
the paris conference is a historic milestone in the international community's efforts to combat climate change.
and with this new global agreement we must begin a dynamic process that will enable us to effectively combat the risks of climate change and accelerate our global transition to a low-carbon and climate-responsible society.
to date, 150 parties have submitted their respective contributions covering almost 90% of global emissions.
the european union was one of the first to do so with an ambitious target of reducing emissions by 40%.
we have set an example for our partners and others are following, but we have also carried out extensive international awareness-raising work throughout the year, encouraging third countries to commit to global climate action.
comparing the contributions submitted to date with the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol - which runs until 2020 and covers only around 12% of global emissions - progress towards the paris summit is remarkable.
although we have seen in this forum that the contributions so far presented are not sufficient to meet the objective of limiting global warming to below two degrees celsius, the good news is that these contributions already constitute a major step forward and put the target within reach.
these contributions are more than just numbers, they are real strategies developed at the highest political level, and, furthermore, when we consider that many countries are designing and implementing these climate plans for the first time, we realize the progress we are making globally on climate action.
and i strongly support the paris agreement project being sustainable and dynamic.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
climate finance will be a key issue on which the european union, moreover, and the member states have an excellent track record.
significant resources from the multiannual financial framework will be allocated to climate change-related projects abroad.
and as for progress towards the global $100 billion target, i'm pleased to note that the most recent estimates show that climate finance reached $62 billion in 2014, as indicated in the recent oecd report.
but beyond the negotiations, the experience of the past few months shows how important it is for the european union to remain the global leader in the fight against climate change.
and that is why we need credible and effective national and european climate policies.
i would like to thank you, once again, for your support and enthusiasm in consolidating climate policy in the european union and in our global leadership on this matter.
i was on the foreign affairs committee to express an opinion on this, and i'm also a member of the environmental protection committee.
we have committed ourselves to article 3 of the treaty on european union on solidarity and the sustainable development of the earth, and we have also committed ourselves to promoting measures to combat climate change under article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
but what i want to say on behalf of the foreign affairs committee is that we need to step up the role of climate diplomacy.
so we need to involve more the european external action service, but also climate diplomacy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development.– mr president, i would like to use this opportunity to stress the strong link between cop 21 and the new sustainable development goals adopted last september in new york, with sustainable development goal 13 about taking urgent action to combat climate change.
so the fight against climate change must remain one of the top priorities, both in our environmental policy and overall development cooperation policy.
the new global international climate agreement expected in paris is crucial for the future of our planet.
the european union must come to that conference with one voice and lead the way in demanding that emissions caused by global climate change be reduced.
the efforts made so far and the targets set must be given new impetus to prevent radical climate change that will cause or is already causing severe consequences in particular in some areas of the planet.
climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity today.
the damage to the world economy from climate change is estimated at up to 300 billion euros a year.
climate change is unquestionably one of the greatest threats to the future of the earth.
a new global climate agreement is expected to be adopted in paris in december, which must set a long-term global climate change mitigation target in line with the goal of limiting global temperature rise to no more than 2°c.
the european union has taken a leading role in the world in implementing greenhouse gas emission reductions and has directed its overall policy towards cleaner technologies, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources in order to contribute to the development of a low-carbon economy and to create new green jobs.
‒ béla kovács is an independent hungarian member of the european parliament and a member of the committee on industry, research and energy and of the delegation for relations with japan and the delegation to the euronest parliamentary assembly.
‒ the european commission has created the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to mobilise funds, in cooperation with the european investment bank (eib), to invest in high-risk projects in the fields of research, innovation, energy, transport and social infrastructure, education and science.
‒ the european commission has created the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) to mobilise funds, in cooperation with the european investment bank (eib), to invest in high-risk projects in the fields of research, innovation, energy, transport and social infrastructure, education and science.
as chair of the investment committee, he was asked, together with his colleagues, to select the best projects and to ensure that taxpayers' money in the union is invested in those projects that will be sustainable and that will contribute most to the recovery of the economy.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the road to a new international climate agreement in paris because global climate change is a burning issue that concerns all of humanity and requires the urgent involvement of all parties at international level.
the eu, all member states, civil society, institutions, the private sector, ngos and local communities need to work together to meet the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets in key sectors such as energy, technology, transport, etc.
in addition to emissions, this international agreement sets many other ambitious targets, and the means of implementation will therefore play a key role in achieving them.
‒ climate change has a major impact on sustainable growth and development, the economy and the health of citizens, and we need to discuss it constantly at international level.
the warming of the climate system is undeniable, and the main cause is human activity.
while the eu reduced its emissions by 19% between 1990 and 2013, global emissions increased by more than 50%.
climate change could be the main driver of population displacement.
the european parliament must champion ambitious but realistic targets: reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 50% compared to 1990 levels by 2030. the paris conference must find and agree on solutions that will mark the beginning of a global average temperature reduction below 2 degrees celsius.
between now and 2020, 100 billion us dollars will be transferred to developing countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i supported the report by mr gilles pargneaux because of the need to act against negative climate change.
we may not yet have realized the importance of the paris climate conference.
the failure of this conference could lead to the breakdown of global climate policy and prevent the achievement of its main objective to limit the increase in global average temperature by the end of the century to 2°c compared to the pre-industrial period.
i want europe to remain a leader in this fight against climate change and that is why i supported this resolution.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
i hope that member states will commit themselves to implementing european climate and energy policies that contribute to this objective.
climate change is one of the most serious environmental and economic challenges of our time.
‒ i support this report and think it is important to note that climate change may lead to major disruptions in resources such as food, water and grazing land in the not too distant future and that these may become the main driver of population displacement.
efforts to mitigate global warming should not be seen as an obstacle to economic growth but should be seen as a driver for new and sustainable economic growth and employment.
‒ the emission gap continues between the current global greenhouse gas emissions levels and the levels needed to achieve the headline target of limiting global warming to 2°c above pre-industrial levels.
the biggest unresolved issues in international climate negotiations are related to the divide between rich and poor nations.
the report calls for an ambitious, legally binding, global agreement and highlights the fact that this would "address the carbon leakage problem and concerns related to the competitiveness of relevant sectors, especially the energy sensitive sector".
‒ while the original draft report on the road to a new international climate agreement in paris covers many key issues such as the european union's contribution to emissions reductions, the need for a flexible and accountable verification mechanism and the importance of gradually increasing funding for the green climate fund, i believe that this report exploits the overarching grounds for including unacceptable proposals.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment.
as i have already said, i believe that many of the issues raised in this report are of great importance for the environment, but i believe that the targets set are too ambitious and therefore cannot lead to improvements in this area.
they're part of an environment that's encouraging entrepreneurship, and that's our constant message.
the european union needs to find a sustainable common response to the problem.
the commission has also taken the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
‒ tax systems must be simple, stable, secure, predictable and must be part of an incentive environment for entrepreneurs.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's integrated approach to the promotion of sustainable tourism, in particular through the development of a european tourism strategy, the development of a european tourism strategy and the development of a european tourism strategy.
the ultimate objective is to increase the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to create new markets.
the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) supports technological innovation in research, education and business with the aim of promoting sustainable economic development and competitiveness in europe.
they were cheated by selling more expensive cars that were supposedly less harmful to the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector, given that air pollution causes over 430 000 premature deaths in the eu each year and that its health costs are estimated at eur 940 billion per year, and given that this document is directly linked to the recently discovered violations of the us pollution regulations for volkswagen ag, audi ag and the american volkswagen group.
i supported the resolution on the protection of human health and ecosystems from the harmful effects of air pollution, as croatia also has air quality categories 2 and 3 in certain urban areas, which are moderately and excessively polluted air.
‒ without prejudice to the final outcome of the investigation, i think it is our duty to ask for a transparent investigation of the entire system of measuring the emissions of products as well as their energy efficiency, regardless of the specific case.
‒ in several eu member states, as well as in other countries, investigations have been opened into vehicle emissions and the manipulation of test results.
although diesel cars have lower co2 emissions per kilometre than equivalent petrol vehicles, manufacturers must use available clean technology to reduce various pollutants.
it is important to emphasise that european automotive suppliers are world leaders in developing diesel technology, combining fuel efficiency with low co2 emissions, and it is essential that this technology is supported in the future.
- the epa and carb investigations established that the vw group violated pollution regulations by falsifying emissions figures.
detailed steps are needed to strengthen the eu strategy for sustainable, resource-efficient systems for use in road and all other modes of transport.
croatia has ordered the contested vehicles through public procurement and has been unavoidably harmed by false information in the selection of vehicles and the amount of emissions.
the state budget suffers daily immense damage, the extent of which is not even possible to estimate at the moment, because the costs paid to the budget represent a number of times less than the actual emissions of the vehicle.
‒ on 18 september 2015, the us environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) issued a notice of infringement of pollution regulations to volkswagen ag, audi ag and the american volkswagen group (collectively known as vw), resulting in an investigation following research into the emissions of nitrogen oxides (nox) from diesel vehicles conducted by a non-governmental association in collaboration with university researchers.
the european parliament strongly condemns all forms of fraud by car manufacturers and calls on companies to take full responsibility for their actions and to cooperate fully with the competent authorities in the context of investigations, and regrets the fact that millions of consumers have been deceived and misled by false information about the emissions of their vehicles.
i support this report because i believe that better regulation of emissions is needed to better protect both the rights of consumers and the environment itself.
the fourth pillar is environmental protection.
we're all very sensitive to the environment.
firstly, mr ruas' report, the eu 2020 strategy; the strategy addresses five specific objectives in the following areas: employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability, education, and the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
it aims to promote sustainable economic and social prosperity in the region and to contribute to the integration of the western balkan countries into the european union, and i welcome your report, mr jakovčić, which includes several valuable recommendations set out in detail.
this strategy for the adriatic-ionian macro-region aims to enable the 70 million inhabitants of this region to benefit from closer cooperation in areas such as promoting the maritime economy, preserving the marine environment, completing transport and energy networks and promoting sustainable tourism.
the optimal exploitation of the potential of renewable energy sources and transport connectivity within the macro-region itself contribute to those objectives.
it is necessary to provide intermodal infrastructure to connect countries and develop energy, but we must also take into account environmental protection and the sustainability of individual projects.
i am extremely pleased with the compromise reached where my amendment regarding exploration and exploitation of oil and gas in the adriatic, especially in areas of high environmental risk, has been respected.
i hope that the european union will soon stimulate the project, because alongside political connectivity, we need to develop transport routes as well as energy corridors.
the implementation of the strategy should involve all stakeholders in a transparent and inclusive manner in order to promote social cohesion, economic development and environmental sustainability.
i believe that now, with this 100% co-financing for greece, there is no longer any excuse for unblocking major projects such as the thessaloniki metro or waste management projects, because, as you know, after you approved these exceptional measures in the european parliament and they were also approved by the council, greece has received this injection of liquidity, so i congratulate you once again on all the reports.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and all those who took part in the trialogue, the council, the commission and the committee on the environment and food safety.
in conclusion, in order to safeguard the health of the citizens of the european union, we need to support more strongly traditional food production, but in a sustainable way, rather than knowingly allowing the consumption of products of questionable quality with a risk to consumers.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the directive on the environment and on the health and safety of workers.
the fact that we cannot ignore is that the health costs of pollution in the european union amount to several hundred billion euros a year.
member states often forget to mention the indirect costs of air pollution in their calculations.
pm are a major problem, mostly caused by emissions from transport and energy, and it is estimated that pm concentrations in ozone are responsible for an excess of tens of thousands of premature deaths in the european union.
member states have enough tools to use in reducing emissions that european funds provide them with, and i support the proposal that the commission establish a clean air fund to ensure that funding procedures are simple, transparent and available to different levels of governance, all for a purpose that they can use to improve air quality.
in the area of economic, social and territorial cohesion, the adoption of an amendment to increase the youth employment initiative's resources by eur 473 million is particularly commendable, and in the area of sustainable development and natural resources, an emergency support package for dairy producers was approved.
in the area of economic, social and territorial cohesion, the adoption of an amendment to increase the youth employment initiative's resources by eur 473 million is particularly commendable, and in the area of sustainable development and natural resources, an emergency support package for dairy producers was approved.
in croatia, the mining of red coral requires a permit, or concession, that is no longer issued by the ministry of environmental protection.
i believe that this report will benefit small-scale blue-fish farmers and make a major contribution to the protection of the entire marine and coastal ecosystem, which is why i support it.
i am in favour of these measures, which are important not only for fisheries but also for the ecological protection of the mediterranean and the adriatic, which we must preserve.
‒ in line with the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), the council and the european parliament have approved certain amendments to existing eu law to improve the framework for multilateral cooperation to promote sustainable development, conservation, sound management and optimum use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea.
-a. the european parliament and the council agreed on a number of recommendations by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm agreement) which provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of the living resources of the mediterranean and black sea seas at levels considered sustainable and at low risk of collapse.
‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was established in 1949 and its main objectives are to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean, the black sea and neighbouring seas.
the gfcm has adopted a number of technical measures over the last five years to ensure the sustainable exploitation of red coral, reduce incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and whales and conserve polar bears, sharks and rays in the gfcm agreement area.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of products referred to in paragraph 1 by adding the following: the risk assessments for human health and the environment are also set out in the regulation.
we need to say no to the pressure of the gmo industry and strongly advocate for the production of food products as it is done today in croatia in a natural, safe and clean environment.
however, member states must be able to demonstrate that the product in question presents a risk to health and the environment.
the gmo itself is still not fully informed and improved analyses of the environmental aspects of genetically modified plants and genetically modified food and feed should be introduced in the marketing authorisation procedure.
i therefore supported the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and asked that special attention be paid to nanotechnology in the food industry.
i think it's important to point out that we have to look at the safety of human health, but also the welfare of animals and the environment.
‒ every year 400 000 europeans die prematurely from air pollution.
air pollution also affects europe's nature and biodiversity, agricultural yields and vegetation.
‒ air quality is an important element for human health and the environment, concerns all citizens and requires urgent action.
years of ignorance have made air pollution the world's biggest public health problem, and poor air quality has contributed to the development of various diseases, increased health care costs, absenteeism and reduced productivity.
the total health costs caused by air pollution in europe are estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year.
the commission adopted on 18 december 2013 a clean air package for the period up to 2030. the proposal contains different limits for each member state and each pollutant and requires member states to adopt national air pollution control programmes.
the key step towards this goal will be the introduction of low emission zones, designed to reduce diesel car emissions in the most heavily polluted urban areas.
i supported the report by mp julie girling on the protection of human health and the ecosystem from the harmful effects of air pollution.
‒ air pollution is a problem faced by many large cities in europe and the world, and the sources of pollution are the result of the development of civilization and the way of life of modern man.
this directive aims to set out the framework for reducing air pollution to levels that do not cause significant adverse effects on human health and the environment, in accordance with the air quality guidelines published by the world health organisation.
this is why the report was prepared in the context of a heated debate on the inclusion of methane and mercury in the list of air pollutants whose emissions should be limited and on better monitoring of ammonia emissions, whose emissions to the environment should be further reduced.
animal welfare could be compromised by limiting methane emissions from the agricultural sector, as animals would have to spend more time indoors.
i am of the opinion that the issue of methane emissions from agricultural production must be addressed in a package of regulations linked to european climate protection policy, by a joint effort of all sectors emitting methane, bearing in mind the real potential of each sector.
‒ as poor air quality remains the cause of hundreds of thousands of premature deaths a year and a major environmental and economic problem, stronger integrated eu action is needed to mitigate the impacts of climate change and to improve the synergies of union legislation with its climate and energy policies.
the implementation of this directive should, in addition to the expected environmental and health benefits, lead to the creation of 40 000 new jobs and the strengthening of green technologies.
it is envisaged that measures applicable to the agricultural sector, industry, road transport are included in national air pollution control programmes and that member states regularly update their national emission reduction programmes under the supervision of the competent authorities.
the new proposal would require croatia to reduce its emissions of so2 by 87%, nitrous oxide by 70% and ammonia by 29% by 2030, and would also help to encourage more responsible organic farming, while opening up access to additional subsidies from eu funds to support small and medium-sized enterprises.
‒ i support the report by my colleague julie girling on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
the directive aims to limit emissions of certain air pollutants, thereby contributing to the european union's long-term objective of achieving better air quality that does not cause adverse effects on human health and the environment, and of mitigating the effects of climate change.
the directive should be consistent with european and international climate change action and with the comprehensive binding global climate change agreement.
the commission is also proposing to set more ambitious targets to be met by 2030 and to require member states to meet the requirements to reduce emissions of certain pollutants and to report to the commission on progress.
member states should establish a system of routine and non-routine environmental inspections and ensure that members of the public concerned are consulted at an early stage of the drafting process.
‒ today we are threatened by major pollution caused by gases such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds, ammonia, fine particulate matter and methane.
it is important to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on public health and the environment throughout the union.
as the report's objectives are ambitious and in line with the europe 2020 targets for smart, inclusive and sustainable development, i supported this initiative.
it should stimulate innovation to support green growth and maintain the competitiveness of the european economy, while helping the transition to a low-carbon economy, protecting europe's natural capital and building on europe's leadership in the development of new technologies.
in addition, the 2030 reduction commitments will reduce the total external costs of air pollution by eur 40 billion, compared to eur 212 billion in base values, which is another reason why this initiative should be implemented.
‒ i supported this report because the union has made progress in the last 20 years in the area of anthropogenic emissions into the air and air quality thanks to specific union policy, including the commission communication thematic strategy on air pollution.
the union's long-term objective for air quality policy should be to achieve air quality that does not result in adverse impacts on and risks to human health and the environment.
member states should contribute to the achievement of the union's long-term air quality objective in line with the world health organisation guidelines and the union's biodiversity and ecosystem objectives by reducing the levels and deposition of air pollutants that cause acidification, eutrophication and those that cause ozone below critical loads and levels.
‒ this proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants, although it has very high quality provisions, is not precise enough and i do not support this proposal.
the setting of total annual emission ceilings applicable since 2010 for sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), ammonia (nh3) and non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmhos) has led to a reduction in a number of harmful emissions.
however, significant negative impacts on the environment and human health remain.
the proposed directive would replace the current european union regulation on annual national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants and would establish new linear national emission reduction commitments for the period 2020 to 2030. the commission has also proposed that the commission should propose a new burden-sharing framework for the union with a revised mandatory reduction of ammonia emissions by 2030. in addition, the epp is calling for the methane to be erased.
‒ the adriatic-ionian strategy is an important non-legislative document describing the eu's objectives and priorities in the areas of blue growth, the connecting europe programme, environmental protection and sustainable tourism.
‒ the eu strategy for the adriatic-ionian region aims to ensure sustainable economic growth and development, environmental and energy sustainability, and social and territorial cohesion.
‒ i support the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, because i believe that it will enable the countries of the region to cooperate better in promoting the maritime sector, preserving the seas, developing transport and energy networks and encouraging tourism, and thus also directly affecting the improvement of the lives of the 70 million inhabitants of the region.
as far as croatia is concerned, investing in sustainable and quality tourism is certainly a positive thing and can guarantee a better future for croatia.
for now, the project of building the adriatic-ionian motorway has been initiated by croatia, but we hope that the eu will soon also initiate this project, because europe cannot only unite politically but also needs to develop transport routes, energy corridors and other relations.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the context of the union's energy policy.
i hope that all stakeholders will be involved in the implementation of the strategy in a transparent and inclusive way to foster social cohesion, economic development and environmental sustainability.
in the current format of 4 eu member states and 4 candidate countries, the focus should be on jointly preparing projects funded by the european structural and investment funds in the fields of maritime affairs, culture, education, tourism, culture and environmental protection.
in this context, eusair provides a unique opportunity for countries in the region to turn the page on past economic and political problems, and to pursue progress and sustainable development together.
i supported the implementation of eusair, primarily because i am concerned about the encouragement of offshore and onshore oil and gas exploration and exploitation, which could expose the macro-region to the risk of disasters with very serious consequences for the environment, the economy, including the fisheries sector, and human health.
the mediterranean sea, because of its semi-enclosure, is prone to pollution, and i therefore call for joint efforts to take all possible measures to preserve the biodiversity of the marine environment and transnational terrestrial habitats and to prevent and reduce marine pollution and other threats to coastal and marine biodiversity.
for shipbuilding, this would mean the creation of new jobs and would also lead to sustainable and competitive growth in blue technologies.
it emphasises that transport and energy links between the participating countries and their neighbours are essential in the macro-region.
the strategy also puts emphasis on environmental conservation and quality, recalls the richness of marine, coastal and terrestrial ecosystems and calls for the exchange of practices between the participating countries to manage natural and cultural heritage.
the eu's strategy for the adriatic-ionian macro-region aims to enable the 70 million inhabitants of this macro-region (albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, croatia, greece, italy, serbia and slovenia) to benefit from closer cooperation in areas such as promoting the maritime economy, preserving the marine environment, completing transport and energy networks and encouraging sustainable tourism.
i support this report and expect the strategy to be implemented as soon as possible so that the inhabitants of these macro-regions and their inhabitants enjoy the same treatment as other eu citizens in terms of transport, energy, environmental protection and the stability and security of south east europe.
the current cohesion policy is closely aligned with the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
furthermore, it regrets that the cohesion policy and related instruments are insufficiently mentioned in the strategy review process by the publication of the communication entitled 'reviewing the progress of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'; calls for the scope of the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy to be wisely defined and balanced and to focus on better linking the five objectives of the strategy and its flagship initiatives.
over the coming years, we need to invest in the european structural and investment funds, which are crucial for smart, sustainable and green growth.
‒ the existing cohesion policy is the eu's main investment and development policy, aligned with the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, but regional disparities and uneven development in employment, innovation and combating social exclusion remain significant.
the synergies between cohesion policy and other eu policies such as the digital single market, the energy union, the single capital market and social policy are therefore necessary.
the establishment of a performance framework and the introduction of ex ante conditionalities and links with country-specific recommendations in the 2014-2020 cohesion policy programming period will allow for a better investment environment in order to maximise the contribution of cohesion policy to the achievement of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
the eu should certainly focus on sustainable growth and development and decent jobs in the coming period in order to make a long-term return on its investments.
furthermore, cohesion policy seeks and promotes synergies with other eu policies such as the digital single market, the energy union, social policy and, through its instruments and objectives (such as macro-regional strategies, the territorial programme, investment in smes), makes a significant contribution to strengthening the single market and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
the revision of the europe 2020 strategy will focus on the implementation of flagship initiatives and aim to strike a balance between financial, fiscal and economic measures on the one hand and social, educational and environmental aspects, as well as equality aspects, in particular gender, on the other.
i have therefore decided to support the cohesion policy resolution and the revision of the strategy in question, as it is a comprehensive and long-term strategy of the european union that invests in the main european priorities, strengthens the potential of the regions and promotes sustainable development.
i believe it is crucial to maintain a coherent approach across the different eu initiatives for growth and the environment, as the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy play a key role in improving coordination at local and regional level in the implementation of cohesion policy.
it is further emphasised that such decisions should not exacerbate the difficulties faced by regions and member states due to the socio-economic environment or due to geographical location and specificities within the meaning of articles 174 and 349 tfeu.
‒ good economic governance and financial stability are prerequisites for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and development which is the ultimate goal of all european union policies and strategies.
a stable fiscal and economic environment is a basic prerequisite for the effective and successful implementation of cohesion policy in practice.
given the need to ensure a stable macroeconomic environment that can only increase the effectiveness of cohesion policy, i support the position adopted that the effectiveness of the use of the funds should be assessed through a procedure of verification of good economic governance in accordance with the guidelines for the application of article 23 of the cpr, but only as a last resort due to the necessary flexibility and by consistently applying the sequence of steps prescribed by that article, taking particular account of the existing rules agreed in the stability and growth pact.
at the same time, multiannual programmes financed by the structural and investment funds require a stable macroeconomic environment, including high-quality governance at all levels.
it is also an investment policy that contributes to achieving the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i supported this resolution in plenary precisely because good economic governance and efficient public institutions are the basic prerequisites for sustainable and long-term economic growth, job creation, social and territorial development and reducing disparities between european regions.
a stable macroeconomic environment, including high-quality governance at all levels, contributes to the successful implementation of the european structural and investment funds and thus positively contributes to the investment rates affected by the economic and financial crisis.
good governance and efficient public institutions are essential prerequisites for sustainable and long-term economic growth, job creation and social and territorial development.
finally, we must not forget the limited resources we have and the protection of the environment.
this new sector is an ideal opportunity to start applying the principles of the circular economy right from the start, and to propel drones using propellant that will not impair air quality and increase greenhouse gas emissions.
i'm sure it can double that, but the problem is seasonality, and that's why we need to maximize the potential of investments that are definitely needed, but of course investments that will be sustainable, not investments at any cost to the detriment of the environment and so on, climate change that we're talking about these days.
i regret that the possibility of fraud was not taken seriously enough and that the fraud was not detected in time to preserve a clean image of european industry and european climate policy.
we will do this by supporting the deterrent penalties that fraudsters will have to face and by establishing appropriate test procedures that give the true emissions situation in real driving conditions.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a list of the re-use of waste and the recycling of waste.
the commission notes that the rpas are designed to provide a range of services to the public, including the provision of information on the safety of aircraft, the safety of the environment and the safety of the environment.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related activities of the union, in particular the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related activities of the union.
i therefore proposed to simplify the access to such financing, in particular in the croatian case for waste and waste water.
in view of the exceptional importance of tourism for the european economy, our fundamental objective should be sustainable, accessible and responsible tourism that is in harmony with nature and the environment and urban destinations and that is based on resource efficiency, sustainable mobility and climate protection, helps to protect the local environment, in particular mountain and coastal regions and islands, which will lead to lasting results in terms of regional growth, meets the increasing demands of travellers in terms of quality and helps businesses to compete, as this resolution rightly underlines.
the contribution of the tourism policy priorities is linked to the 3 priorities of the juncker commission, namely sustainable growth and jobs, a connected digital single market and a better connected and fairer internal market.
i believe it is important to ensure the development of sustainable, responsible and accessible tourism, where natural resources are properly used with new technologies for sustainable development, sustainable jobs and a stable economy.
furthermore, i believe that tourism plays a significant role in protecting the climate and the local environment, which also leads to long-term sustainable outcomes that lead to positive trends in the economy.
however, there is no need to waste time on trial and error when other member states have already been on the path of finding the best solutions.
the environment: the eu has also put in place powerful regulatory tools, such as the emissions trading scheme, addressing co2 emissions in the eu.
a global market—based mechanism should be pursued to achieve carbon-neutral growth from 2020, as well as the option of the first ever co2 standards for aircraft.
without a clear message to migrants that europe can and wants to take in only those whose lives are threatened by the devastation of war, especially women and children, these funds will, i fear, represent a mere waste of taxpayers' money.
i also welcome the fact that the commission has decided to help build an lng terminal on the island of krk, because it is of course an excellent energy project.
i call on the commission to combine these two projects, to create a true energy hub for european needs in the northern adriatic, and thus to exploit the synergies of these two projects.
i supported the report by mr carlos zarrinha, member of the european parliament, because interoperability solutions are a prerequisite for a better public service and for creating an environment in which businesses are more competitive and citizens are relieved of administrative burdens.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
it not only enables a sustainable interconnection between public administrations and those administrations and other sectors, thus strengthening the union's economy's ability to compete globally, but also creates an environment in which companies become more competitive, making such a solution a strong ally of the european strategy for growth and jobs.
i believe that this programme will facilitate cooperation between member states and the commission and the mapping and analysis of the overall interoperability environment in europe.
i supported the european parliament resolution on the future aviation package, because of its importance for europe's economic growth and competitiveness, for faster and safer connectivity and mobility of people, goods and services, and for the fact that a single european sky is a necessary prerequisite for the sustainable competitiveness of the european aviation sector.
this package of measures must also contribute to the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions.
the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 20 june 2013 and entered into force on 1 january 2014. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary support to the member states in the implementation of the union's policy on the environment, in particular by providing them with the necessary financial resources to implement the union's policy on the environment.
in view of my support for the implementation of proactive policies to develop a favourable environment for this industry, i supported the motion for a resolution on the future aviation package.
‒ i supported this motion for a resolution because i believe that the aviation package would provide the much-needed incentive for a more sustainable and competitive european aviation industry, to also support european air carriers, airports and the aviation industry and create a level playing field in the global market.
the commission notes that the airport services agreement between ryanair and ams was signed on 20 june 2013 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2013. at the same time, i would like to stress that the eu's commitments and environmental objectives must be respected.
‒ the aviation sector is the only sector in which emissions of pollutants have increased since 1998, by about 30%.
the aviation sector is also responsible for 3% of the world's total international co2 emissions.
the international air transport association has committed to a 50% reduction in net co2 emissions from aviation by 2050 compared to 2005 levels.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the aviation sector.
trade liberalisation is an important tool for achieving sustainable economic growth, and international trade could become the most important external source of development finance for ldcs.
the importance of trade for sustainable development is also recognised in the recently adopted 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which highlights trade as an important means to achieve new sustainable development goals and inclusive and sustainable development.
the role of the european union within the united nations must be above all an attempt to always have one voice, to act as one voice, to make europe credible, to make europe strong in the united nations and to impose its issues because of course it is not only security that is the issue of the united nations and it cannot be only security but it must also be development and the social component and environmental protection.
climate change, suffice it to say, is what it means when we talk about environmental protection.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to take this opportunity, when we are talking about the energy union, to draw your attention to the fact that as rapporteur for this parliament on the adriatic-ionian strategy, i have emphasised two things, which were adopted in this parliament.
this part of europe can contribute to the single energy market first with renewable energy sources, especially with the hydropower potential we have, especially in the balkans, but also with the possibility of using solar and wind as energy sources.
mr president, mr vice-president, i have been following for a year how much energy and time you have invested in bringing the energy union to life, and i congratulate you on that, but i would still like to point out a few more facts that could actually improve how the energy union is brought to life.
the macro-regional approach, my colleague mr jakovčić has just mentioned the adriatic-ionian strategy; we have three macro-regions in europe - the baltic, the danube and the adriatic-ionian - that are alive and that can actually be a very good basis for implementing as much energy efficiency as possible, as many new energy sources as possible, instead of gas, which we see has gone somewhat into a dead end, in the energy union.
so, through better regulation, as vice-president timmermans says, to ensure that citizens through various energy cooperatives and other quality schemes can really actively contribute to the energy transition in the energy union.
i believe it is crucial to act with rational and sustainable management of marine resources in mind and to oppose unregulated and illegal fishing.
the marine ecosystem is one of the key values of the entire planet that must be preserved at the highest level, and therefore i support all regional and other international organisations that work in this regard.
the commission was established to monitor the implementation of the agreement on the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, which entered into force on 1 january 2014. i supported the report by mr carlos iturguiz because i believe that membership of the enlarged commission is necessary to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal fishing, all with the aim of maintaining the natural balance of the sea.
i believe that it is in the eu's main interest, within the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, to continue to promote a consistent union approach to the conservation of tuna in all oceans, thus reaffirming the commitment to the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of the world's fisheries resources.
this is an important step forward in institutional cooperation in joint work to combat illegal fishing and promote the rational and sustainable management of marine resources.
i support this proposal as it seeks to complete the legal process initiated by the signing and provisional application of the exchange of letters for membership of the enlarged ccsbt commission and reaffirms the union's commitment to the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of the world's fisheries resources.
‒ the right to education, health, housing, protection, recreation and leisure, balanced nutrition and care in a family environment is guaranteed by the un convention on the rights of the child.
‒ children should be guaranteed the right to education, health care, housing, protection, participation in decisions affecting them, entertainment and leisure, balanced nutrition and care in a family environment.
i support this report because cohesion policy is an important tool on the way to achieving results-based policy making that would effectively deliver smart and sustainable growth in the regions where it is needed most.
‒ i voted for the report on the eu's role in the un how to better achieve the eu's foreign policy objectives, as this is a very important topic especially in a situation of great change, instability and uncertainty in the european environment which also affects the security situation within the eu.
while the eu and its member states make the largest financial contributions to the un's general budget and its provision of humanitarian and official development assistance and peacekeeping operations, the eu and the un must focus more on eradicating poverty, which is a major challenge for sustainable development worldwide.
economic, social and environmental sustainability contribute to peace and security.
a strong and stable eu-un partnership is essential for the un's work under all three pillars (peace and security, human rights and sustainable development) and for the eu's role as an active global actor.
‒ the rapporteur focuses on the idea of reforming the structure of the united nations in such a way as to formalise a dual governance structure - on the one hand, the security council and on the other, the sustainable development council, which would coordinate all areas of action of the united nations, except security.
i also support the rapporteur's call for simplification of structures, budgets and working methods within the united nations, in particular with regard to the reform of the dysfunctional and often criticised economic and social council; towards economic, social, environmental and developmental efficiency.
however, member states have to deal with energy taxation, and what some of you were mentioning is true.
industry needs stable energy prices, and we are working on this not only in the energy market union strategy but also in all of the documents and actions that i am taking.
the next meeting of the high level group on energy-intensive industries is foreseen for 18 december – in a few weeks’ time – and it will be an occasion to discuss the issues raised today during the debate and by mr martin’s report on the base metals industry, as well as the use of the trade defence instruments.
we should address at this conference, with all of the stakeholders, the very critical issues such as investment – including the role which the investment plan will play in these sectors – energy, the circular economy package, trade and, last but not least, research and development, in order to secure the future of our industry.
aware of the challenge of the economic crisis, the ageing workforce and the strong link between job security and the general benefits to society, we have a duty to provide a legal framework for the realisation of a sustainable working environment.
rapid intervention prevents the emergence of unintended consequences such as disease, accidents, environmental pollution and job losses, but also facilitates the recovery of the affected area to cease as soon as possible to be a recipient of aid and to continue its economic and any other form of life of its citizens.
but because it's not chemically bound to plastic, it's easily released into the environment.
the commission is accountable to the european public when it comes to protecting citizens and the environment from hazardous chemicals.
the commission will also assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environmentally friendly use of chemicals.
in line with the underlying objectives of reach protection of human health and the environment, promotion of alternative methods for the assessment of the hazards of substances and enhancement of competitiveness and innovation given the widespread use of these substances in everyday use and consumption and since it has not been demonstrated that not granting an authorisation would result in social and economic costs, i support this proposal as necessary to protect the environment, people and wildlife.
i agree with the objection of my colleague, as the adverse effects may affect the quality of life of european citizens and the environment, for which the eu institutions are responsible.
‒ the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment regularly conducts research on hazardous substances in food and other products, with the aim of reducing the risk of disease.
the risks to human health and the environment arising from the use of di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) should be considered as a priority in the periodic review of the list of restricted substances, as these high-risk substances have been identified as posing a particular risk to children.
i support the council's proposal to gradually reduce the use of high-risk substances in everyday products in order to protect human health and the environment.
the commission considers that the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk assessment of the risk moreover, the wider effects of not approving the use of dehp, such as the reduction of recycling and consequently the increase of environmental pollution, are not taken into account.
the report stresses the need to adopt a balanced and fair tax policy as an integral part of structural reform in the member states, which i fully agree with, as i believe that national and international tax rules should keep pace with the development of the business environment.
while each country has an interest in using its national legislation in combination with a network of tax treaties to promote itself as an investment country, i agree that consensus needs to be established among all member states because aggressive tax planning, harmful tax regimes and tax fraud invade fertile soil in a confused and non-cooperative environment.
the main objective is to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for all workers throughout their working lives, which is not only a fundamental human right but also has a positive economic impact in terms of labour productivity.
‒ human resources are the backbone of the european union's development, and the health and safety of workers is a fundamental prerequisite for the sustainable development of the european union.
i also support the report because health and safety at work is a fundamental social interest and an investment that has a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of societies and also improves the sustainability of the social security system and allows people to work healthy until the statutory retirement age.
health and safety at work are fundamental societal interests and investments that have a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of societies and also improve the sustainability of social security systems and enable people to work health to a statutory retirement pension.
it's also good that the g20 has addressed all issues, from terrorism to refugees to the economy and social inequality to climate change.
most of the change has come, unfortunately, at the high cost of the economic and energy blockade from russia and the armed conflicts in south ossetia and abkhazia.
trade liberalisation is an important tool for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development, but it needs to be complemented by appropriate accompanying policies covering macroeconomic and microeconomic measures.
at the same time, i commend the progress made in fulfilling multilateral initiatives such as the environmental goods agreement (ega), the information technology agreement (ita) and the trade in services agreement (tisa).
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because i believe that trade liberalisation is an important tool for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development, but that it needs to be complemented by appropriate accompanying policies covering macroeconomic and microeconomic measures, including budgetary transparency, fiscal policy and tax uniformity, simplification of administration, education and training, institutional reforms and social policies, all with a view to maximising and better sharing the benefits of trade reforms and effectively mitigating negative impacts.
trade liberalisation is an important tool for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development.
i also call for the implementation of the action plan on social rights and environmental rights in line with those already agreed.
i also find it extremely positive that the contracting parties, among other things, commit themselves to conserving biological diversity and that environmental protection programmes are encouraged, and i therefore support this report.
the importance of the joint sub-committee on trade and sustainable development as the sole mechanism envisaged to monitor the implementation of the sustainable development commitments was underlined.
the european union and ecuador have a lot of mutual benefits, not only in the exchange of goods between each other, but also in creating a stable environment for economic operators, enhancing competitiveness, technology transfer and innovation.
economic growth must not be at the expense of the environment and civil society, but must be sustainable.
ecuador is rich in biodiversity, being one of the 17 most diverse countries in the world, and it has the highest concentration of plant and animal species, between 5% and 10% of the world's biodiversity.
it is therefore necessary to make joint efforts to conserve the environment and biodiversity, not only for the mutual benefit but also for the benefit of humanity.
the european union should continue to encourage ecuador to pursue its successful policy of progressive social and sustainable development.
i look forward to the rapid and comprehensive entry into force and implementation of that agreement, which will guarantee the highest level of protection for citizens and the environment, stimulate and diversify trade and investment on both sides, and act as an important driver of economic and social development and contribute to further alleviating poverty and reducing inequalities in ecuador.
the european parliament therefore encourages the government of ecuador to implement the action plans submitted by colombia and peru and to adopt similar measures as an opportunity to improve the general living conditions of citizens, including human and labour rights and the environment.
this resolution will encourage ecuador to take the steps that colombia and peru have taken to boost the economy and improve the general standard of living of its people, including human rights, labor rights and the environment.
the european union is committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the environment and sustainable development, and to the promotion of sustainable development in the context of the global climate change challenge.
i encourage the council to establish a joint sub-committee on trade and sustainable development as the sole mechanism provided for under the trade agreement to monitor the implementation of the commitments on sustainable economic development.
but i find it particularly positive that this resolution, in addition to focusing on the current economic and social situation in the country, also looks at many problems in ecuador such as intensive deforestation and the decline of biodiversity.
supporting ecuador in its efforts to develop and maintain effective environmental management, especially in sensitive areas such as the amazon and the galapagos islands, is of paramount importance for the future of our planet.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental and food law and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental and food law.
‒ a high level of animal welfare is crucial for sustainability, and animal welfare is closely linked to animal health and public health.
this resolution will contribute to a higher level of animal welfare where it is important to ensure sustainability which implies investments and additional costs that are not distributed proportionally throughout the food chain.
the eu's 'children of peace' initiative provides 1.5 million children affected by conflict and crisis in 26 countries with access to schools where they have the opportunity to learn in a safe environment and receive psychological support.
‒ cohesion policy is the eu's main policy for growth and investment development, aligned with the objectives of the strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth - europe 2020 and aimed at reducing disparities between regions and promoting convergence, with a budget of eur 351.8 billion by the end of 2020. unfortunately, despite all efforts, excessive bureaucratization, especially at regional and local level, hinders the effective management of esi funds in the eu by member states, regional and local governments.
the targets for reducing waste, the targets for reducing marine pollution and the targets for reducing excessive food waste have been missed.
we have not received concrete measures, but only minor amendments to the waste management directive, and all the rest is a list, i dare say, of wishes or a list of other action plans without concrete measures.
the proposal to tackle waste-to-energy in the energy union is a wake-up call.
our economy needs sustainable innovation, it needs smart design, not incineration.
the zero waste goal is important to achieve, but when the generation of waste cannot be prevented then incinerating that remaining part is a much better solution than disposing of it.
and finally, the 600 billion euros we can save every year by preventing waste, by eco-design and recycling, and how we need to invest and create jobs.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
this project aims to provide economic benefits, environmental benefits, but also social benefits.
this is a significant step towards moving europe from a linear to a more sustainable circular economy.
you'll agree that we want better waste management, and what ends up in landfills we want to put to good use.
food waste should be curbed because it's immoral to throw food away when so many people are starving.
so we need changes in the value chain, from product design to new business and market models, from new ways of turning waste into a resource to new ways of consumer behavior.
despite efforts across the european union, it is clear that the urban transport sector is still the only sector where greenhouse gas emissions are increasing.
such statistics are detrimental to sustainable land use, but also to quality of life.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
as the urban population is projected to grow significantly, urban centres will continue to face societal challenges related to quality of life and sustainable development, and serious urban planning will be required.
96% of the eu's energy needs for transport depend on oil and its derivatives, corresponding to a third of total energy consumption.
i believe that spatial planning is the most important stage in creating smooth, safe and sustainable transport networks that have a real impact on citizens' lives and traffic, and i stress that safety must always be seen as a key element of sustainable urban planning.
young people are at the heart of the new 2030 sustainable development goals.
2015 was an iconic year, rich in international events directly linked to sustainable development: the milan world expo, the united nations general assembly during which the 2030 sustainable development goals were adopted , the conference on financing for development in addis ababa, the climate change conference currently taking place in paris , to name just a few of the most important.
i had the opportunity to say this when we discussed sustainable development a few months ago.
2015 has been a critical year for development, with the addis ababa action agenda and the 2030 agenda on sustainable development adopted and, hopefully, an ambitious climate framework forthcoming.
so i strongly support the european year of development, as i also support all those intentions that go to prevent future migrants, and those are climate migrants, climate change migrants.
‒ i voted for the sustainable urban mobility report because i believe that the eu's actions so far have been very successful and positive and should be continued.
large cities and urban centres face daily societal challenges, quality of life challenges and sustainable development challenges, among which urban mobility and transport play a significant role.
this report aims to improve environmental protection, quality of life and health, and also focuses on many interesting innovations that take a smart approach to urban mobility.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on urban mobility and its impact on the environment.
this report aims to refocus urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport in order to meet today's challenges.
our personal contribution to reducing emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases may seem insignificant from the standpoint of personal consumption and personal contribution compared to the global scale, but if we look at our contribution cumulatively as the aggregate contribution of each individual inhabitant of europe, and we all drive over 220 million personal vehicles together (often for our own personal profit), then we have to ask ourselves whether we are acting responsibly towards our communities and the future of our children.
i call on all decision-makers at local and regional level to take this opportunity to share their good and bad experiences and to identify strategies that will make urban transport more sustainable than it is today.
‒ i support the report by ms delli on sustainable urban mobility.
greenhouse gas pollution, high noise levels and unsustainable daily traffic congestion are extremely serious problems in large urban areas in the eu.
for this reason, there is no one-size-fits-all solution, but each member state must create its own package of measures to reduce pollution caused by urban transport.
urban transport is responsible for 70% of co2 emissions in urban areas and is the only sector in the european union whose greenhouse gas emissions continue to grow.
according to a study by the european environment agency, 125 million eu residents are exposed to excessive noise from urban transport.
this proposal will make a major step forward in improving environmental protection, quality of life and health.
energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources, sustainable development and technology neutrality are concepts mentioned in the proposal and are crucial to achieving the objectives of the european union.
‒ i support this proposal because i believe that the overcrowding of cities and the use of a large number of cars is bringing air pollution to a critical point.
such a situation presents an environmental problem.
i also believe that the right to mobility is a basic human right and i believe that people should be given as many options as possible that will lead to a reduction in the use of personal cars and thus a reduction in the rate of pollution.
improving public transportation will reduce emissions of harmful gases within cities and thus prevent further pollution.
as a consequence, 96% of the energy needs of transport in the eu depend on petroleum and its derivatives, corresponding to one third of the total energy consumption.
i support the council's position because i consider that spatial planning is the most important stage in creating smooth, safe and sustainable transport networks that have a real impact on overall life, traffic and its distribution, and i stress that safety must always be seen as a key element of sustainable urban planning.
‒ while i believe it is extremely important to promote new, sustainable modes of transport in cities and to focus on environmental aspects and to focus priorities on cyclists and pedestrians, many of the proposals in this report undermine the principle of subsidiarity by the member states.
i consider it inappropriate and excessive to suggest that the 'dedicated revenue' principle linked to road tolls is used to improve sustainable urban mobility, and i consider as an additional shortcoming of this report the non-inclusion of a strong recommendation to use diesel engines, especially with a focus on the current controversial volkswagen case.
you mentioned renewable energy and cooperation with neighboring countries.
i want to emphasize again how important the role of local governments, small businesses and citizens is in creating energy efficiency through investing in advanced networks, through the transformation of cities in the smart city concept.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the member states.
in a true circular economy that we associate with the energy union, waste must be returned to the economy as a raw material, so preparing for reuse and recycling have a much higher priority than incineration.
mr president, i support the creation of a strong energy union that will ensure a stable supply of secure energy to member states and their citizens on more favourable terms.
the fact that the main points of supply at the moment are mostly politically unstable environments where energy serves not only as a means of trade but also as a political blackmail should be an additional motivation for us to create a common energy market.
therefore, i would like to emphasise once again the need to build an lng terminal in krk, croatia, which i believe will be a key energy hub for central and south-eastern europe in the future.
madam president, adapting technical measures to the specificities of each fishing region is the right way to achieve sustainable fisheries.
the universal solutions provided for in the regulation on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea, which prohibited a whole range of non-commercial fishing gear, have seriously damaged the social image of the croatian islands and coastlines, for example, which is unacceptable.
this is an ideal opportunity to apply a more flexible approach to achieving our objective of sustainable fisheries management.
these plans are a crucial element of the reformed common fisheries policy because, firstly, they are the main instrument for achieving the objective of maximum sustainable yields in an orderly fashion.
we look forward to working with parliament on these two important issues, which are both vital parts in reaching our common goal of long—term environmentally, economically and socially sustainable fisheries.
finally, we must not forget that the most important thing for convergence and sustainable economic growth is the partnership, the unity and the determination of member states to implement joint initiatives and changes.
the european union is a political project, the single market and the future common digital market, the energy market, all of this is a political project.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the community of dominica on the short-stay visa waiver, as this waiver will benefit the tourism sector, which can make a significant contribution to the development of the economy and the production of geothermal energy.
the union and samoa shall cooperate in the following areas: on the other hand, samoa is a parliamentary democracy that has shown progress in respecting fundamental freedoms and political dialogue with the union focuses on environmental protection, human rights and gender equality.
samoa has been a stable democratic state since independence in 1962. fundamental human rights and freedoms are respected, and the eu's political dialogue with samoa focuses on environmental issues and human rights.
however, in order to achieve an integrated, multi-sectoral and sustainable development, both in these countries and in the acp group, it is necessary to ensure strong coordination and coherence between the institutions implementing the decisions.
in this context, i fully support efforts to conserve and optimise fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area in order to contribute to the environment, society, growth and sustainability.
‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic region, providing sustainable, environmental and social benefits.
‒ i support the incorporation of the northeast atlantic fisheries commission's recommendations into the union's regulatory framework with a view to the long-term conservation and optimal use of fish stocks in the northeast, and with a view to achieving sustainability, environmental protection and other societal benefits.
i consider this report to be positive because the measures envisaged by this amendment will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic, with lasting results in terms of environmental and social aspects.
i also see the digitalisation of equipment and electronic reporting as a positive change, which will improve environmental and social efficiency.
‒ the european union is a contracting party to the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, which aims to conserve and optimise the use of the north-east atlantic fisheries resources in the long term, thereby contributing to sustainable development, environmental protection and local community development.
the commission considers that the proposed measures to protect fishery resources through landing and transhipment measures, inspections at sea and breaches of procedures, surveillance of fishing vessels flying the flag of the other contracting party and through measures to promote compliance by non-contracting party fishing vessels are possible, as they will provide sustainable economic, social and environmental benefits.
‒ in my work on the consumer committee, i advocate for the highest possible energy efficiency to improve sustainability, but also to create additional benefits for consumers.
the possibility to choose an energy operator and to review the state of energy resources is a key priority in my report 'delivering energy to consumers'.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the initiative 'towards a european energy union', as the eu needs to move forward with its ambitious plan to create an energy union.
the european union needs to have energy independence and protect energy security in the face of an unstable geopolitical environment.
energy independence is the foundation for preserving the democratic stability and independence of the eu countries.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european energy charter.
i agree with the main pillars on which the future of europe's energy strategy should be based, such as ensuring security of energy supply, decarbonisation, long-term economic sustainability and achieving affordable and competitive energy prices.
the objectives of the energy union should be aligned with those related to the reduction of harmful climate change.
the aim is to achieve energy efficiency and competitiveness, to reduce the price of energy, to increase investment in innovation, to encourage advanced technologies, to pursue renewable energy sources, and to contribute to the competitiveness of the european economy, which is also linked to the employment situation.
direct 'benefits' for citizens through the availability of cheaper energy are also important.
‒ i supported the report on the initiative 'towards a european energy union' because we must be aware that rural communities across the eu suffer significant consequences from poor energy connectivity.
strengthening the single market and establishing the energy union are eu objectives that will result in more competitive member states and ensure growth and development of the economy.
the energy union must be based on a fully connected internal energy market delivering secure, affordable, socially and environmentally responsible energy.
the ultimate goal is to provide sustainable, efficient and equitable access to gas and electricity.
‒ it is known that the eu, but also croatia, depends on energy imports.
there is a lack of investment, and the little investment that exists is directed again towards further increased dependence on fossil energy imports.
the commission notes that the aid granted to the croatian nca is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the project is carried out in compliance with the requirements of the energy union.
investing in renewable sources and in the sector where croatia has the most untapped potential sun can make the national company a guarantor of fair social electricity prices for households in the future.
the commission notes that the objective of increasing the interconnection of the electricity system throughout europe to at least 10% allows the placing on the european market of the desired renewable energy produced in croatia, while ensuring the energy self-sufficiency of the country and the conditions for exporting the electricity produced to other parts of the union.
‒ i welcome the strategy of establishing the energy union and the free transfer of energy as a common good.
a coordinated and coherent approach at union level will make it easier and faster to achieve our common, rather ambitious energy targets.
the energy union can be discussed in many contexts; the context of energy independence, diversification, efficiency and sustainability.
but in times of increasing security challenges surrounding the european union, the context of energy security is particularly relevant.
i am therefore particularly pleased that three croatian projects have also been included in the european energy security strategy: the lng terminal in krk, the ionian-adriatic pipeline, and the hungarian-croatian reverse stream, cross-border projects with significant impact for the region, but also for europe in general.
the political reality is that, in addition to security, energy has become the oxygen for democracy, so it is high time that we upgraded the political integration of the european union to include energy integration.
i agree with the report on the initiative 'towards a european energy union' by mr gróbarczyk.
the european union is the world's largest energy importer.
of the 28 member states, 6 are dependent on only one energy supplier, making them extremely vulnerable.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union's energy security and to assess the impact of the measures on the union's energy security.
i believe that the eu's energy policy must be aligned with climate policy and i am therefore committed to making the eu more self-sufficient in energy, especially through renewable energy sources, and thus to implementing the plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050. according to the european commission, as much as 75% of european housing is energy inefficient and in many situations citizens do not have enough choice of energy supplier.
i therefore support structural investments to increase efficiency, such as energy renovation subsidies, which would result in a reduction in demand, and at the same time i call on each member state to correct its legal framework in order to achieve these objectives, with the help and suggestion of the european parliament.
‒ i support this report because the creation of a resilient energy union with an advanced climate policy must be based on the transition to a sustainable and advanced energy system, based on energy efficiency, renewable energy, the optimal use of european energy resources and smart infrastructure.
the energy security strategy should include cost-effective measures to reduce energy demand and equally effective measures to overcome major and immediate disruptions, and should include solidarity and coordination mechanisms to protect and strengthen energy production, smart energy transmission, and distribution and interconnection infrastructure.
the union's trade policy should therefore aim at increasing energy security in accordance with article 194 tfeu, diversifying energy sources and reducing dependence on a single external supplier or on a single supply point, while respecting the relevant division of competences established by the treaty.
‒ according to article 194 tfeu, european energy policy ensures the functioning of the energy market, ensures security of energy supply, promotes energy efficiency and energy saving, and the development of renewable forms of energy, and promotes the interconnection of energy networks.
in may 2014, the commission stated in its energy security strategy [8] that the eu is still vulnerable to external energy shocks and called on policy makers at national and eu levels to clarify for citizens the choices related to reducing our dependence on certain fuels, energy suppliers and supply routes.
the energy union is based on that strategy.
i support the initiative 'towards a european energy union' because the spirit of solidarity in energy matters is explicitly mentioned in the treaty and is at the heart of the energy union.
joint approaches in the field of energy can empower all parts of the european union.
member states, transmission system operators, the energy industry and all other stakeholders should cooperate to ensure a high level of energy security for european citizens and businesses.
‒ i welcome the efforts of the rapporteur of this own-initiative report, which seeks to give parliament's position on the future perspective of the energy union.
i agree with the provision that it should be based on a common energy market which should be supported, if necessary, by a solidarity mechanism towards those member states of the union which suffer from the dominance of one energy supplier.
i also support the view that the european union's energy strategy should be based on the full exploitation of all available energy resources, which would ultimately contribute to the objective of reducing the union's dependence on coal.
i am satisfied with the final draft text, which does not contain an attempt by certain groups within parliament to increase the union's 2030 targets for renewable energy sources by making them legally binding for all member states.
i also welcome the compromise amendment which stresses the concern about the impact of shale gas on the environment, but does not call for a ban on shale gas extraction, nor for new union legislation in this area.
i also support the report's objectives of giving the union member states more flexibility in deciding how to reduce their emissions.
‒ cheaper energy for consumers, more transparent billing and more choice are key determinants i support.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target - preparing the european electricity network for 2020 as the physical interconnection of the energy network between eu member states is one of the fundamental processes for creating the energy union.
‒ greater energy efficiency and sustainable development of the energy sector, which will ensure savings, renewable energy and the functioning of the internal market, are priorities for the european union and all its institutions.
a stable, independent and competitive energy system will also result in job creation, innovation and economic growth and development.
‒ it is known that the eu, but also croatia, depends on energy imports.
there is a lack of investment, and the little investment that exists is directed again towards further increased dependence on fossil energy imports.
investing in renewable sources and in the sector where croatia has the most untapped potential sun can make the national company a guarantor of fair social electricity prices for households in the future.
the commission notes that the objective of increasing the interconnection of the electricity system throughout europe to at least 10% allows the placing on the european market of the desired renewable energy produced in croatia, while ensuring the energy self-sufficiency of the country and the conditions for exporting the electricity produced to other parts of the union.
‒ i welcome all that has been done in the area of achieving greater electricity interconnection as it is a prerequisite for achieving an integrated internal market in electricity and thus a prerequisite for achieving the eu's climate objectives, increasing energy efficiency, strengthening the sustainability of the economy, creating a more resilient european grid and facilitating electricity trade.
the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's energy policy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the medium term.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
‒ i support this report because renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix leading to energy savings and an internal energy market with free flow of energy are important ways of achieving a stable, secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive energy system for the eu, creating high quality jobs and achieving better outcomes in a sustainable, future-oriented economy.
the commission will also assess the impact of the new rules on the market for electricity from renewable sources.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of energy.
i support the establishment of a european electricity grid by 2020 because i believe it will contribute to achieving our climate goals, including the eu's goal of taking the lead in renewable energy.
the adriatic-ionian gas pipeline) as a crucial element for strengthening the union's energy connectivity, which i fully agree with.
the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the progress made in implementing the union's policy on the environment.
furthermore, the needs of the local population, the sustainability of coastal communities, the notion and role of small-scale fisheries should be clearly defined.
‒ we are aware of the data on the reaching of the limits of the sustainable biological capacity in the seas and the data that the continuation of overfishing threatens the survival of certain commercial species and thus the sustainable yield of the fisheries sector.
the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy requires the achievement of maximum sustainable yields through the application of an ecosystem-based approach.
it is equally necessary to exempt from unnecessary restrictions the occasional small-scale coastal fisheries traditionally used throughout the mediterranean, in particular where those restrictions cannot be justified by the ecosystem approach framework.
as one of the objectives of the common fisheries policy is to restore and maintain stocks of harvested species above levels that can lead to maximum sustainable yield through the application of an ecosystem-based and selectivity-based approach, i agree that technical measures and multiannual plans are among the main means to achieve these objectives.
‒ i support this bill because the sustainability of fish stocks is a prerequisite for the future of the fishing industry.
it is necessary to establish a harmonised set of technical measures, taking into account the specific characteristics of each of them, as decisions at union level can have an important impact on the recovery of fish stocks and the protection of ecosystems and on the sustainable management of common fish stocks.
the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) called, among other things, for the achievement of the maximum sustainable yield by applying an ecosystem-based approach.
following the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy, the multiannual plans must include a maximum sustainable yield objective and a deadline for achieving it.
the two main things that this regulation intends to revise within the cfp are the landing obligation and regionalisation and accordingly this report calls for the commission's legislative proposal to implement the objectives of the cfp through improved selectivity, minimising waste and the negative impact of fishing on the environment, simplifying existing rules and providing accurate scientific data on impact procedures, with which i fully agree as i consider all of the above necessary and necessary.
we have probably not acknowledged the importance of the 187 indcs on the table, covering 97% of global emissions.
what that shows is an unstoppable movement towards sustainable energy, towards renewables, and towards energy efficiency all over the world.
if you examine the indcs, most of them were renewables, energy efficiency and some forest management.
in that context, we have very clear work to do: sustainable energy and the phasing-out of fossil fuel subsidies.
on that day, the intergovernmental panel on climate change will provide a special report on the impact of 1.5°c and related global greenhouse gas emission pathways.
we have two options: to take strictly binding commitments and the united states – 12% of global emissions – out of the agreement.
this is a complex topic, mainly because if you take aviation at the moment, when i say that indcs cover 97% of emissions, 1.5 is international transport emissions.
the other sectors are coming down, so the percentage in the future of the maritime and aviation sectors will be enormous, and we will establish clear rules on monitoring, verification and reducing emissions.
i will not answer those who still claim that there is no climate change and, above all, that it is not due to our activities.
we agree that an agreement will not change the climate and a treaty will not change the world.
the conference had not even finished when president hollande himself committed to the 196 parties that he would increase france's contribution, both in terms of reducing emissions and contributing to climate finance.
i have just heard the german environment minister say that germany will speed up the phase-out of coal.
in the future, ladies and gentlemen, the opposite will happen: those who do not act on climate change will lose.
in paris, the final session of the climate conference has made a significant step forward in the fight against climate change and in caring for our planet.
in fulfilling their commitments, countries also pledged to continue their efforts to keep global temperature rise to well below 1.5°c, reducing the risks and impacts of climate change that are already visible today and causing millions of deaths worldwide.
i'm excited to see an agreement, especially because i was personally present at the much-anticipated copenhagen conference, which ultimately failed because the major greenhouse gas producers were unwilling to agree to an agreement.
in recent years, the consciousness of the ruling elites has changed due to the damage caused by climate change that has led to the loss of homes for many people and threatened their existence, and they all decided on behalf of their countries to contribute to the achievement of this important paris agreement.
some in this house seem to forget that the members of the european union are still sovereign states and as such should have the right to create a good environment for investors in their territories through smart tax policies.
madam president, my group, myself and i think many other members have been deeply impressed by the words of pope francis in this house when he called for the european union to oppose the ideology of waste, to reach out to people in need, fleeing war and poverty, not to turn its back on them, not to treat them as waste.
the draft union list does not address the problem of invasive alien species in a comprehensive manner that would protect native biodiversity.
‒ i voted out on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation adopting the list of invasive species of union concern under regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 because such species directly threaten european biodiversity, agriculture and fisheries and therefore i consider it necessary to start implementing the new regulation as soon as possible.
‒ invasive alien species are unusual species that do not naturally inhabit a particular ecosystem, but have been introduced into it by intentional or unintentional introduction, and by their settlement or spread have a negative impact on biodiversity, human health or cause economic damage in the area to which they have been introduced.
however, in my opinion and in the opinion of most of my fellow members, the way the draft list was drawn up was not implemented in a way that would guarantee that the same type of evidence is used in the member states and that the same standards are applied, as was also pointed out by well-known ngos of citizens working in the field of environmental and nature protection, and i therefore supported this resolution objecting to the commission's implementing decision.
i support the motion for a resolution tabled under rule 106 (2) and (3) of the rules of procedure on the draft commission implementing regulation adopting the list of invasive alien species of union concern under regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council (d041932/01 2015/3010 ((rsp)) by ms renate sommer and mr pavel poca, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
globally, invasive species in an area are now considered to be the greatest threat to its biodiversity, along with direct habitat destruction.
as the commission has failed to ensure that the methodology to be used in carrying out the risk assessment is implemented in the same way in all member states and it cannot be guaranteed that the same type of evidence is used and the same standards are applied in all member states, i agree with the report requesting the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation and to submit a new draft to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing decision adopting the list of invasive alien species of union concern in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council, and in agreement with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
species whose presence or spread threatens biodiversity, human health or causes economic damage cost the european union some 12 billion euros a year.
although the commission proposed a list of species against which the measures provided for in that resolution should be taken, no standardised procedure was used and the proposed list does not include all problematic invasive species that have a significant negative impact on biodiversity and ecosystem services, while other species against which action would result in a cost imbalance are included in that list.
i consider it extremely important that the commission draws up a new draft before the list is adopted, so that member states can take steps to monitor, eradicate and manage invasive alien species when they occur on their territory in accordance with the resolution, with the aim of protecting indigenous biodiversity.
the problem the european union has with gmos will not go away on its own, nor is the status quo sustainable.
‒ i voted out on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified maize under regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 because i consider that the analysis of the european food safety authority that such maize is as safe as non-genetically modified maize with regard to human health, animal health and the environment should be taken into account.
glufosinate-ammonia is known for its teratogenicity and glyphosate was classified as a probable human carcinogen by the international agency for research on cancer (the world health organisation's specialised cancer agency) on 20 march 2015. the use of potentially carcinogenic or known teratogenic substances in the environment is a risk i consider unwarranted.
the commission implementing decision does not comply with union law as it is incompatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 (8) to provide a basis for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while guaranteeing the effective functioning of the internal market, and i therefore request its withdrawal.
i believe that the commission should be guided in its decisions, above all, by the objective of providing a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed.
‒ i support this report which covers the overall eu-china relationship, from the political, economic, environmental, social and human rights aspects.
china is the eu's main trading partner and the report calls for even better coordination in all areas such as security, the financial system, urbanisation and development, with particular emphasis on the importance of cooperation on climate change and regional development.
first, it is the protection of the environment and the observance of international agreements that regulate the objectives of all states in curbing activities and preventing actions that may adversely affect environmental pollution.
china must make a clear shift away from the current production model that causes significant pollution.
furthermore, i believe that china should play a more important role in international financial institutions, but at the same time take more seriously its commitments in the areas of good governance, social responsibility and environmental protection.
some of the important global issues and issues of common interest are global and regional security, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, cyber security, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development.
on the other hand, it should be borne in mind that there is still much room for improvement, especially in terms of ecology and climate change.
‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on eu-china relations, given that the eu-china structured political dialogue was formally launched in 1994, and the high-level strategic dialogue on strategic and foreign policy issues was launched in 2010, and in particular the 5th eu-china high-level strategic dialogue held in beijing on 6 may 2015. i therefore call for better coordination between the eu and china in areas of strategic importance such as the g20, security and defence, counter-terrorism, illegal migration, transnational crime, nuclear non-proliferation, global and regional security, cyber security, weapons of mass destruction, energy security, global governance of financial systems and markets and their regulation, climate change and urbanisation, development and assistance programmes and sustainable development.
i would stress the importance of the eu-china bilateral trade and investment agreement currently under negotiation and call for the inclusion in the bilateral investment agreement of a full-fledged chapter on sustainable development providing for binding commitments on the core labour standards of the international labour organisation (ilo) and key multilateral environmental agreements, and follow-up and active monitoring to ensure a more balanced trade relationship for european companies after the removal of barriers to trade and investment.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the preparations for the world humanitarian summit: challenges and opportunities for humanitarian aid delivery, because we are witnessing that the challenges we face in our daily lives are increasingly acute due to urbanization, population growth, demographic change, the increased frequency and intensity of natural disasters, environmental destruction, climate change, numerous long-term conflicts that are taking place simultaneously and affecting all regions, and causing resource scarcity, poverty, inequality, migration, displacement and instability.
the humanitarian aid system is overburdened by the refugee and migrant crisis and climate change and requires new mechanisms, financial instruments and forms of international cooperation.
so i call for a new agreement at the world humanitarian summit to intervene in fragile states and long-term crises with sustainable programs, implementation plans and predictable development finance.
the european base metals industry is important for a whole range of downstream industries, including the automotive and aerospace industries, energy production, construction and packaging.
‒ i voted with a firm majority in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry, because that was the position of the alde group and because i believe that further clarification and analysis are needed to effectively tackle climate change, improve energy and emissions policy and transparency.
the establishment of new limits is the most effective structural mechanism to prevent the risk of carbon leakage and to undermine efforts to combat climate change.
the establishment of climate change boundaries should create a level playing field and unhindered competition between producers inside and outside the eu.
i supported the report by member of parliament edouard martin primarily to protect the achievement of the climate change objectives.
this is why i supported this report and call for the manufacturing industry to be protected at european level, for appropriate anti-dumping measures to be applied and for specific measures within european energy and climate policy to address the problem of 'carbon leakage' and thus support the base metals industry.
i support the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry by mr edouard martin.
the problem is that this is not due to a fall in european demand, but to rising energy prices and carbon costs in several member states and dumping from third countries, which is causing europe to rapidly deindustrialise in this sector.
the burden and the great challenge for europe is to become competitive again, while remaining a global role model in terms of social and environmental responsibility in its actions.
‒ i support reforms that seek to ensure the development of a sustainable european base metals industry that is both environmentally sound and highly competitive and provides quality jobs.
the energy union package was subsequently defined.
this package of measures would allow the creation of a secure, sustainable and competitive energy market with affordable prices, thereby increasing the competitiveness of the european economy in the global context and reducing and harmonising energy prices in europe and among member states.
this would help the industry to respond to the social and environmental challenges it faces and must overcome.
‒ the report focuses on the situation in the european base metals industry, with the rapporteur highlighting the protectionist carbon cap mechanism as a key tool in this fight.
the text adopted in the report proposes that such a mechanism be established in the event that no agreement is reached at cop 21. while i agree in principle that the sustainability of the base metals industry is a relevant issue and a problem that needs to be addressed, i do not agree that the same can be effectively achieved by the measures proposed in the report and therefore i voted against.
and in that sense, i particularly welcome the adoption of the ambitious 2013 sustainable development plan and the leading role played by the european union in that process.
we insist that together with our partners, we annually monitor progress and results related to sustainable development goal 16 which promotes the building of inclusive societies based on respect for human rights and democratic principles.
this sustainable objective must be the priority of our foreign and, therefore, development policy, and it is here that we need to focus the resources of the european development fund and the development cooperation instrument.
i believe that we urgently need to ensure peace, security, sustainable growth for all countries, free and fair trade, reduction of poverty rates and protection of human rights, and in particular the rights of children under the united nations charter, but also the protection of women's rights, which we should not forget in this situation.
and especially when we talk in today's current times about the rights of migrants, about climate migrants, about what climate change brings as a human rights need, about the extreme poverty that we have in the european union as well.
the reforms to be undertaken through the implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement should create an environment in which bosnia and herzegovina can very quickly make a credible application for membership of the european union, and we will give it our full support in this process.
it calls into question the biodiversity of the european continent.
i do not want to diminish the importance and the role that the member states should have in this area because they too can be extremely conservative in biodiversity, but i am sure that one principle of joint cooperation at european and national level must be maintained in this area of business.
their role is important for food security, biodiversity, adaptation to climate change and therefore farmers must retain the right to grow their own seeds, adapted to local conditions.
they were cheated by selling more expensive cars that were supposedly less harmful to the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision to set up a special committee on emission measurements in the automotive sector, its powers, composition and duration because i believe that new measures and supervision are needed to prevent repeated consumer fraud and to prevent and remedy environmental damage.
i am pleased that the european commission is preparing a new act on real driving emissions testing of passenger cars and i regret that the possibility of fraud was not taken seriously enough and that the fraud was not detected in time.
the agreement defines a partnership on economic and trade cooperation with the ultimate aim of signing a free trade agreement, but also cooperation in the field of human rights, climate change and the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
assistance to vietnam should be provided in a number of areas, in particular in taxation, labour, employment and social transfer, health, environment, climate change adaptation and science and technology policies.
the agreement will increase cooperation with vietnam on a wide range of policy issues, such as taxation, migration, health, environment, climate change, energy, education and culture, labour, employment and social policy, science and technology and transport.
the agreement establishes a wide range of future relations to further enhance cooperation in addressing global and regional challenges, such as good governance and the fight against corruption, and economic and social progress, taking into account the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, and the fight against terrorism.
the agreement defines a partnership on economic and trade cooperation with the ultimate aim of signing a free trade agreement, but also cooperation in the field of human rights, climate change and the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
the agreement establishes a wide range of future relations to further enhance cooperation in addressing global and regional challenges, such as good governance and the fight against corruption, and economic and social progress, taking into account the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, and the fight against terrorism.
it is commendable that the future fta includes the following elements: a chapter on trade and sustainable development, obligations to respect fundamental labour standards and ilo conventions, mutual obligations to respect fundamental workers' rights, commitments to support the conservation and sustainable management of natural resources, with particular emphasis on corporate social responsibility and fair and ethical trading systems, thus confirming its value and scope.
the agreement will also intensify dialogue on key issues such as the protection of human rights and the environment.
the agreement establishes a wide range of future relations to further enhance cooperation in addressing global and regional challenges, such as good governance and the fight against corruption, and economic and social progress, taking into account the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, and the fight against terrorism.
equally important issues for achieving these goals are how we see the future of the eu budget and the multiannual financial framework and how to better coordinate the different european policies in areas such as the financial system, transport, digital society, energy, innovation, rural development.
i supported the european parliament's resolution on completing the european economic and monetary union, for which we need the partnership, unity and determination of the member states in implementing joint initiatives and changes, because without this there can be neither convergence nor sustainable economic growth.
i hope that in future parliament will fully exercise its supervisory role and thus ensure the consistent application of the recommendations of the european semester in order to create a sustainable economic picture for the member states, based on private investment, structural reforms, free markets and a balanced fiscal policy.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on arms exports: implementation of common position 2008/944/cfsp, as this issue is of great importance at a time when the eu environment is extremely volatile politically and in terms of security.
the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons poses a serious risk to peace, security, human rights and sustainable development in the world.
in this context, we should particularly take into account the eu's significantly changed environment, particularly in the south and east, and the fact that third countries such as albania, bosnia and herzegovina, macedonia, iceland, canada, montenegro and norway have also formally committed themselves to the criteria and principles set out in the common position.
‒ the global security environment around the eu has changed dramatically, and uncontrolled proliferation of weapons poses a serious risk to peace, security, human rights and sustainable development.
in this context, it is necessary to encourage innovation and the development of new species in order to ensure food security, mitigate the effects of climate change and prevent monopolies within the crop sector.
properly defined plant regulations are essential for the development of new varieties in order to ensure global food security, combat climate change and prevent monopolies in the breeding sector.
access to plant-based biological material is needed to stimulate innovation and the development of new varieties to ensure global food security, tackle climate change and prevent monopolies.
the development of new varieties would ensure global food security, tackle climate change, prevent a monopoly in the breeding sector and create more opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises.
burundi was one of the first countries in the region, along with rwanda and congo, to hold elections and was therefore to serve as an example of respect for the international and constitutional order necessary for the sustainability of democratization, peace and development in the region.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo, because i believe it is essential to preserve and ensure the sustainability of africa's oldest national park, which is a unesco world heritage site.
in this regard, and in order to preserve natural resources and biodiversity, i consider it necessary to prohibit all illegal activities, such as those of armed groups that illegally exploit natural resources, and to prevent human rights violations that occur in the area concerned.
‒ virunga national park is africa's oldest national park, renowned for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, especially the endangered mountain gorillas.
i believe that the necessary steps must be taken, as this resolution clearly identifies, to secure the financial and organizational resources to ensure the smooth operation of the national park, to protect its integrity, to prevent the irresponsible and unacceptable exploitation of the natural and environmental resources, and to protect it from armed groups that threaten the survival of the park.
as the national park represents an important segment of the local economy, it is necessary to do everything to ensure that the local population remains actively involved in the protection and enjoyment of the benefits of the park, but also to prevent possible environmental devastation due to the intention of oil exploitation, whose deposits cover 85% of the protected area.
‒ the european union must do more to prevent environmental devastation, violence and exploitation in the virunga national park in the congo, especially as companies operating in the jurisdiction of eu member states are involved in the illegal exploitation of natural resources, in violation of international and european law.
the commission has also received information from the united nations environment programme (unep) on the use of the term 'central african republic' in the context of the un convention on the rights of the child (crc).
i fully support the call for diplomatic action by eu member states to stop the exploitation by the dr congo government and the request for financial support from the commission to ensure diversification and protection of the surrounding area and to support the development of sustainable energy and economic alternatives in the congo.
although the dr congo law prohibits activities harmful to the environment in protected areas, the dr congo government has granted oil concessions covering 85% of the park area to soco international plc, which has so far been the only company to explore the park.
i believe that the race for oil would result in severe destabilization of society and the environment.
it should also be noted that the member states of the european union, having a duty under international and european human rights law, must ensure that companies operating within their jurisdiction do not cause or contribute to human rights violations and environmental damage.
the sustainable management of virunga's land, water, flora and fauna will bring direct and indirect economic benefits to communities that rely heavily on the park's natural resources.
it is known for its unique habitats and great biodiversity, making it the most biologically diverse park in africa.
the conservation of biodiversity is one of the tasks that humanity should tackle together and which is an integral part of the development process.