parliament wanted to ensure that member states would be able to use justifications for opting out based on environmental and health grounds additional to those examined in the european risk assessment.
there has been further weakening of the text with the change of the legal basis, environmental considerations relegated to the recitals, and the crucial liability scheme being removed.
i also do not think it is any surprise that when we ask consumers if they want the country of origin labelling they will say yes, and i do not think it is any surprise that they are not prepared to pay more for it, but in my view this debate should be much more about the sustainability of the food supply chain.
in my view, reputable food producers, whether of products with processed meats or otherwise, have sustainable long-term relationships with their suppliers and therefore should not have the need to switch and swap between those suppliers.
i think it requires more debate but i would ask us to do it in the context of the sustainability of the food supply chain, above all else, and having these long-term supplier relationships.
the solution will not be just between germany and greece; we need a european solution – one that does not promote moral hazard but one that is sustainable for all member states.
i agree with ms mcintyre in that we need the commission to create, first of all, an environment that is conducive to the take-up of these schemes, and secondly, the flourishing of these companies.
— given that the senegalese economy will undoubtedly prosper from the improved exploitation of available stocks – in accordance with the principles of a sustainable fishery and the best practices in the industry – it is the rapporteur’s opinion that the new fpa and the protocol established between the european union and senegal are in both parties’ interests.
i very much hope that the commission takes note of this resolution and takes note of the strong consumer sentiment that supports information such as this, so that we can have a sustainable food system, not just in europe but throughout the world – and also a sustainable food system that people have certainty about, in terms of knowing where their food comes from.
mr president, it has been said that we do not need an energy union because we have the european union.
well, in actual fact, we have a european union but we do not have an energy union.
i think energy terminals are one way to make the world our oyster in terms of being able to avail of the shale gas revolution etc.
i think an energy union will help to make that happen, particularly in areas like wind – which we have a surfeit of all over northern europe – sun in the south of europe, biomass possibly, but also, as mr petersen mentioned, district heating and cooling.
mr president, there is a need for all governments to encourage and upgrade their housing to be more efficient in line with the green economy and to save energy.
across europe lack of investment in retrofitting domestic and indeed public buildings to conserve energy is costing us.
ten thousand public buildings in ireland are costing eur 600 million annually in heat, light and energy costs.
i would call on the commission to work with the european investment bank to draw on mr juncker’s investment plan, to ensure that we invest in energy-saving measures in our homes.
instead, what we hear is that the european commission is proposing to release an impact assessment in 2016. it is disheartening to hear yet again another story of the commission bending to its corporate bedfellows instead of implementing rigorous regulation to protect consumers and the environment.
if we speak of impact assessment, we must speak about health, the environment, then agriculture, then complex issues related to all, but in all this complexity health is the number one issue.
i have 17 meetings with some of you here and with ministers of agriculture, health and the environment.
mr president, in april 2016 ireland will transpose three new procurement directives into national law and previous guidelines from the commission give scope for the government of ireland to use procurement as a positive instrument to achieve gender equality and sustainable development, and to realise social goals such as its national anti—poverty targets.
in order to ensure real public accountability, labour rights, equality and environmental considerations should be explicitly referred to at all stages of procurement processes.
i'm thinking especially about energy.
in particular, it is essential to have a safe environment for all persons to use and to be able to report without delay.
freisin, caithfimid focus on the reduction of costs and the amount of traffic on the roads now and we are dealing with laws and regulations on the environment, especially in the motor vehicle, in the railway and in the trucking industry and the use of the road.
‒ i voted for this report as it allows:• an increase in vehicle length to accommodate changes to the cab design of trucks to improve aerodynamics and road safety;• an increase in vehicle length to accommodate aerodynamic devices at the rear of vehicles which improve fuel consumption and reduce emissions;• an increase in vehicle length to accommodate 45ft containers used in intermodal transport;• an increase in vehicle weight (up to a maximum of one tonne) for alternatively fuelled vehicles;• improved inspection and enforcement related to checks on vehicle weights.
‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution to revise the maximum weights and dimensions of certain road vehicles, as larger and heavier trucks are a threat not only to road safety but also to the environment.
this proposal will limit the size of heavy-good vehicles, promoting the shift from road to rail transportation and enhancing support for the development and use of low-carbon technologies.
this will ensure that emissions are cut, helping us achieve our climate change goals, and will make the roads safer for all citizens.
the core idea that european long-term investment funds (eltifs) would support social and environmentally sustainable investments is a positive one.
the shadow rapporteurs equitable and exhaustive amendments were not included in the compromises, despite being focused on sustainable and viable alternatives.
the core idea that european long-term investment funds (eltifs) would support social and environmentally sustainable investments is a positive one.
the shadow rapporteursʼ equitable and exhaustive amendments were not included in the compromises, despite being focused on sustainable and viable alternatives.
in europe our capital markets are not evenly developed and it is our task to ensure that capital markets can play a key role in the provision of long-term, sustainable and growth-enhancing finance for our future.
‒ i have voted in favour of this regulation as i believe it will help put the european economy on a path of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
and so while welcoming some aspects of this report, namely the need to guarantee the universality of public services, the need to bring alternatives to the workers of industries affected by sanctions and the focus on sustainability; i felt it necessary to abstain in this vote.
in writing.– the first lines of the introduction to the annual growth survey 2015 read as follows: ‘having come through the worst financial and economic crisis in generations, the eu has done a lot to create the foundations for more sound and sustainable growth in the future’.
there is currently a lot of talk about the juncker plan, and it is important to be aware of public investment and to stop the privatisation of important sectors such as housing and energy in the member states.
i think it is crucially important if we are to really deal with the problems of poverty and inequality in europe that we create a pro-jobs, enterprising europe where countries are encouraged to create jobs and where the right environment is there.
everybody knows that without conservation methods, without proper scientific up-to-date information, one cannot have a sustainable fishing industry, and we certainly have done an awful lot in this area in the last 20 years, where commercial landing of sea bass was not allowed and for leisure purposes it has been very limited.
‒ this resolution prioritised a wide range of human rights issues such as social and economic rights, women’s rights, civil and political rights, rights of the child, lgbti rights, and human rights in the context of climate change.
this resolution prioritised a wide range of human rights issues such as social and economic rights, women’s rights, civil and political rights, rights of the child, lgbti rights, and human rights in the context of climate change.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it includes key human rights provisions such as human rights mainstreaming, the death penalty, human rights and climate change and the rights of the child.
as ireland tries to find a sustainable economic recovery it is crucial that we develop a healthier reputation as a transparent place to pay tax and face up to any changes necessary to create a transparent global tax system where multinationals cannot escape their duties to countries, including developing countries.
as ireland tries to find a sustainable economic recovery it is crucial that we develop a healthier reputation as a transparent place to pay tax, and face up to any changes necessary to create a transparent global tax system where multinationals cannot escape their duties to countries, including developing countries.
the president, who is the head of the government, is responsible for ensuring that the budget is not ineffective and represents an untenable environment for the implementation of the laws.
mr president, the revision of these two key issues of energy legislation has taken five long years to get to this vote and unfortunately a lot has been lost by parliament in the face of a relentless council.
whilst i would also have preferred to see a much lower cap on first generation biofuels, the 7% limit which has been agreed upon will see their growth curbed which is good news for the environment, for biodiversity and for hunger in the developing world.
after five years of long and difficult negotiations, i am sure many are ready to put this issue to bed, but if we are truly going to commit to a feature of sustainable transport in the european union, it can only be just the beginning.
i must say that since our good commissioner arias cañete came into office he has been at pains to point out the need to create an energy union by first of all decreasing our dependence on imported fossil fuels and increasing our resources within the european union and of course one area is that of biofuels.
particularly in transport we have to say that emissions reductions are not quick or good enough and with a growing economy we are going to see far more trucks and trucks and cars on the roads; therefore this has to be addressed.
in particular, i would like to say, i have met many people recently, investors and so forth, who see that we have had a wasted opportunity in not using waste in the past, but this now will change into the future.
that will be good for the environment, co2 emissions and for the energy union.
it has driven us to use more paper bags rather than go down the road of using reusable bags, and it is important to point out that paper production causes 70 % more air pollution.
it consumes more energy, it consumes more water, and it is more inefficient in recycling.
however, we are doing something about the pollution and the co2 emissions from industrial transport that are already about 4% of the ocean.
it is important that personnel sailing on fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job to ensure their own safety and to ensure that threats to the marine environment are minimised.
mr president, i supported the new form of the directive on the quality of fuels and the directive on the use of energy from renewable sources because i believe, and the debate that has taken place here shows, that in the future we must give greater support to advanced biofuels and move away from supporting traditional biofuels whose production is so ecologically demanding that their environmental benefits are then put into perspective.
i mean, we have a similar debate in the czech republic, on the floor of the czech parliament, about how to promote renewable energy.
mr president, i supported the final agreement on the fuel quality directive and renewable energy directive but it is far from ideal.
in this agreement i believe we are addressing the negative side effects of the eu’s support policies for biofuels and we are also trying to ensure that publicly subsidised biofuels achieve real greenhouse gas savings.
furthermore, energy crops will in principle be included in the 7% cap.
i think it also fits in well with the whole concept of an energy union in europe which has been promoted by our commissioner arias cañete.
this agreement must now be seen as a stepping stone and not the end of moving towards sustainable transport in europe.
‒ the need to further reduce carbon emissions, and curb the harmful effects of land use change arising from the cultivation of crops for fuel, prompted us to change the current eu policy.
the human and environmental side effects of this route are increasingly apparent and we had to do something to address this.
we also pushed for sounder definitions and hierarchies of what qualifies as waste as source materials for more advanced biofuels exploiting by-products of other agricultural activities.
‒ i voted in favour of this directive as i believe parliament has legislated for a balanced and reasonable cap on the amount of crop-based biofuels that count towards the eu’s 10% renewable energy targets.
this is a positive step towards promoting advanced biofuels which will play a key role in decreasing the co2 emissions in our transport sector.
‒ i voted in favour of this technical report as moving towards advanced biofuels is an important step in reducing greenhouse gas emissions arising from biofuel crops.
this agreement must now be seen as a stepping stone and not the end of moving towards sustainable transport in europe.
plastic bags are not biodegradable and can take between 400 and 1 000 years to break down in the environment.
it is estimated that 1 million plastic bags are used every minute globally, which makes it no surprise that plastic waste is causing some serious impacts on the world’s oceans.
the excessive consumption of plastic bags in the eu is a matter of serious concern and as plastic bags tend to be used on a once-off basis, this results in unnecessary and preventable waste.
the majority of meps rightly saw the need for binding measures at eu level so as to tackle serious damage caused by plastics to the environment and biodiversity.
ninety-two per cent of the eu population agrees with reducing the use of plastic bags; furthermore, we believe that restricting the use at eu level will be a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem.
‒ plastic bags used by consumers to carry food products (between 15 and 50 microns in thickness), targeted by the directive, pose a greater environmental risk than thicker ones.
due to irresponsible consumer habits, 90% of these bags are thrown away after first usage, amounting to 8 billion bags turning into waste every year.
after a certain time, they turn into microscopic particles, microplastics, which are harmful to the environment and especially to marine ecosystems.
plastic bags are harmful to the environment and to animals and marine life.
‒ the current eu-wide consumption of lightweight plastic bags is having a significant detrimental impact on our environment.
this proposal seeks to reduce this unsustainable consumption from an eu average of 198 bags per capita to 90 in each member state by 2020. this proposed change to the packaging and packaging waste directive will enable member states to avail of a broader range of instruments, such as levies or marketing restrictions, to achieve this.
in the eu billions of these bags end up directly in water bodies and aquatic ecosystems every year as untreated waste.
the plays in the bhithmhillte agus glacann are 400 to 1 000 years old and have been written in their environment.
four per cent of all greenhouse gases come from the maritime sector, and as world trade grows, that percentage will rise.
other information will also be required, for example data to determine the ship’s energy efficiency.
the president has also ordered the adoption of a law on the proposal that we should do something about the co2 emissions from industrial transport.
is there anything to do now, because the morning after we were talking about the debate, there's 4% of the co2 emissions coming from the ocean.
‒ this report was concerned with emissions from the maritime transport sector which contribute to both air pollution and climate change.
it has not been possible to calculate the precise amount of co2 and other ghg emissions of eu-related maritime transport due to the lack of monitoring and reporting of such emissions.
the commission proposed an integrated measurement, reporting and verification (mrv) system covering emissions of air pollutants and ghg with the aim of providing improved information on the co-benefits and trade-offs on related policies in europe.
in this regard, my group, gue/ngl, tabled several amendments in order to develop more details on the mrv data and to include not only co2 emissions in the mrv system but to also extend the monitoring system to other emissions that are of concern in the main eu harbour cities.
‒ as the international maritime shipping regulation is the only regulation which is not included in the eu’s co2-reduction emission scheme, i support this recommendation which aims to provide a basis for monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) of large ships (over 5 000 gross tonnes) using eu ports and their co2 emissions.
i also agree with the target fishing mortality range, which is calibrated from zero to fmsy, which is the fishing mortality consistent with achieving maximum sustainable yield.
‒ i abstained on this legislative resolution as, while there were a number of positive improvements to the commission proposal, they were not nearly robust enough to prevent the destruction of the baltic ecosystem.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as a multispecies approach is the most effective way to ensure the balanced and sustainable exploitation of baltic fish stocks, while protecting the livelihood of fishermen.
this multiannual plan for the baltic sea will ensure that management measures reflect the most up-to-date scientific advice to keep stock sizes within safe biological limits and will take into account the interaction between different species and the ecological needs.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as a multispecies approach is the most effective way to ensure balanced and sustainable exploitation of baltic fish stocks, while protecting the livelihood of fishermen.
this multiannual plan for the baltic sea will ensure that management measures reflect the most up-to-date scientific advice to keep stock sizes within safe biological limits and will take into account the interaction between different species and the ecological needs.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as a multispecies approach is the most effective way to ensure the balanced and sustainable exploitation of baltic fish stocks, while protecting the livelihood of fishermen.
this multiannual plan for the baltic sea will ensure that management measures reflect the most up-to-date scientific advice to keep stock sizes within safe biological limits and will take into account the interaction between different species and ecological needs.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as a multispecies approach is the most effective way to ensure the balanced and sustainable exploitation of baltic fish stocks, while protecting the livelihood of fishermen.
this multiannual plan for the baltic sea will ensure that management measures reflect the most up-to-date scientific advice to keep stock sizes within safe biological limits and will take into account the interaction between different species and ecological needs.
although the landing obligations alongside the baltic multiannual plan can be of potential environmental benefit, it is still of paramount importance not to neglect the socioeconomic factors and possible negative impact this will have on small fishermen.
however, i abstained on this vote because of environmental concerns, especially in the context of bio-energy.
moreover, there was no reflection in the report of concerns in relation to biodiversity problems, the multifunctional nature of forests, the creation of specific support measures to prevent and fight fires enabling early intervention or avoiding soil erosion and the recovery of vegetation cover.
however, i abstained on this vote because of environmental concerns, especially in the context of bio-energy.
moreover, there was no reflection in the report of concerns in relation to biodiversity problems, the multifunctional nature of forests, the creation of specific support measures to prevent and fight fires enabling early intervention or avoiding soil erosion and the recovery of vegetation cover.
‒ i supported this strategy because it identifies many of the key principles needed to strengthen sustainable forest management.
forests have a multifunctional role and in the report we call for better coordination by eu bodies, a review of the effectiveness of the timber directive, active forest management and the sustainable resource-efficient use of timber.
‒ i am pleased to support an eu forest strategy based on the principles of sustainable and multifunctional forest management, global forest responsibility and efficient use of forest resources.
sustainable forest management principles ensure our resources are managed efficiently and economically.
sustainably increasing our forest area goes a long way towards maintaining a clean and healthy environment.
‒ i supported this report as a new eu forest strategy is needed to deal with cross-border challenges such as forest fires, climate change or invasive alien species.
however, i abstained on this vote because of environmental concerns, especially in the context of bio-energy.
moreover, there was no reflection in the report of concerns in relation to biodiversity problems, the multifunctional nature of forests, the creation of specific support measures to prevent and fight fires enabling early intervention or avoiding soil erosion and the recovery of vegetation cover.
one of these initiatives was the sustainability compact, which was signed in july 2013. the rana plaza building collapse was followed by a public outcry which exposed a number of violations of labour law.
it is of vital importance that the conditions of the sustainability compact continue to be implemented in order to improve the working conditions for the four million workers in 4 000 textile factories in bangladesh, particularly in areas such as occupational safety and respect of labour rights.
in particular, it called for more investment in renewables and for the phasing-out of all energy projects in fossil fuels, and it also called for investment in regions with high unemployment and low gdp.
in particular, it called for more investment in renewables and for the phasing-out of all energy projects in fossil fuels, and it also called for investment in regions with high unemployment and low gdp.
the european investment bank did not carry out sufficient due diligence on the project and the result was a huge waste of taxpayers’ money.
the theme of the milan expo 2015 represents an excellent opportunity to put forward the debate on improving food production and distribution, tackling waste and promoting sustainable agricultural practices to combat the challenge of malnutrition.
this resolution also promotes sustainable farming and agricultural practices, and encourages research and innovation in the world’s agriculture industry.
it is only through careful, intelligent innovation and investment in the agriculture sector that we can hope to eliminate hunger and malnutrition around the world, as well as ensure the environmental benefits from ecologically sound food production
in writing.
i was recently elected as president of the committee on energy, research and technology (itre) on climate change and i hope to be in the negotiations with the parties by the end of this year.
‒ this report calls for the eu and the member states to re-commit to the 0.7% of gni target for official development assistance and to commit additional climate finance (cop21, paris).
the eu and its member states must recommit without delay to the 0.7% of gni target for official development aid (oda), with 50% of oda and at least 0.2% of gni reserved for least developed countries, and present multiannual budget timetables for the scaling-up to these levels by 2020. domestic resource mobilisation is more predictable and sustainable than foreign assistance and must be a key source of financing.
smes count for 90% of all eu businesses, and around 45% of smes are considered to have a high environmental impact.
the majority of these contribute, in some way, to reducing the environmental footprint, such as recycling and minimising waste.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that economic growth and environmental sustainability should go hand in hand.
cadmium is a highly toxic and carcinogenic metal and this objection is in line with the aims of the restriction of hazardous substances directive to minimise the dangers to human health and to the environment.
my group tabled an alternative resolution calling on the commission to consider alternative solutions that will also safeguard the agro-food sector and the environment in the region.
madam president, i think one of the exciting aspects of being involved in the industry, research and energy committee (itre) at this point in time is the whole enthusiasm for an energy union and the proposals made by an enthusiastic commissioner cañete.
certainly, that is something that will be very good for europe – not just for markets, but particularly also for citizens, because we can help to connect europe and guarantee security, diversity supply, and president juncker’s target of being the number 1 renewable energy source in the world.
it is not a whole lot of people, but people with the proper qualifications to do the job, and to create the confidence that we are serious about an energy union and that we are going to make it happen.
but of course, the issue of climate change is going to be important, especially today.
the most important thing is that the co2 emissions target will be respected in all countries.
and the call for disaggregated gender data on everything from climate change to energy has no proven added value.
recital u demonstrates an uninformed and narrow-minded perspective on single-sex schools and couldn’t be supported and the calls for gender data on everything from climate change to energy have no proven added value.
in my work in the last couple of years as the rapporteur on the data protection regulation for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i constantly came across, in particular, artists, smes and publishing companies who were very concerned about their intellectual property rights (ipr), especially nowadays in the online world.
we need a comprehensive legal framework, tailored to the online environment, with which to combat infringements of intellectual property rights in the eu.
it signifies an important step for the continued effort in the eu to tackle its emissions output.
nevertheless, as we gear up for the most significant global climate summit in a decade, ambition remains uneven across the member states.
in my own country, ireland, the government is currently progressing a climate bill which has no binding targets for lowering carbon emissions – not even the mandatory targets set at eu level.
it talks of a low—carbon ireland, but it does not even define what that means in real terms.
it also – worryingly – has no mention of global climate justice.
so ireland, as with the other eu member states, must outline a long-term credible vision for a transition to a low-carbon economy.
this current whitewash of green policies is not acceptable if serious climate action is to take place.
our emissions are 11% of global emissions, so either we are all in this together, or we will all fall together.
mr president, it is essential that we in europe, as well as national governments, continue to face up to the problem of climate change.
in 2012 the kyoto protocol, as the only existing and binding agreement under which developed countries undertake quantitative commitments to cut greenhouse gases, was amended so that it could seamlessly continue.
the doha amendment creates a second commitment period from january 2013 to december 2020. for the eu and its member states, ratification of the doha amendment does not entail any new commitments beyond those set out in the 2009 climate and energy package: a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 levels.
eu legislation concerning the technical implementation of the doha amendment was adopted last year in may 2014. we all know that, in the long run, emissions will have a negative impact on many sectors, such as the environment, health and our well-being, as well as our economies.
that is why i strongly support the objectives of the doha amendment, which ensure that, over the period until 2020, we continue to have a tactical and coordinated response to climate change.
this extension to the kyoto protocol by the doha amendment is very important in sending a strong signal that we are serious about tackling climate change, as most people now agree that climate change is occurring and that it is a challenge to us.
the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997 setting an internationally binding emission reduction target.
the european union and its member states were thus jointly responsible under the kyoto protocol’s compliance mechanism for fulfilling the commitment to reduce their collective greenhouse gas emissions in the first period, 2008-2012, to 8% below 1990 levels.
in december 2012, at the doha climate change conference, the 192 parties to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change adopted an amendment to the kyoto protocol, version one.
this ‘doha amendment’ establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emission reduction commitments for the parties listed in its annex b. under the doha amendment, the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their base year emissions (mostly 1990).
the eu has already committed to a 20% reduction target under its 2020 climate and energy package and so this does not in any way affect member states’ individual obligations under the 2020 framework.
by continuing its participation in the kyoto protocol, the eu is confirming its commitment to lead international efforts to stop climate change.
even if only a few countries outside the eu have taken on legally binding targets for the second commitment period from 2013 to 2020, it is an important bridge between the current international climate regime and the new international agreement to be adopted at the paris conference in december.
it is important that the amendment be formally entered into force, as the kyoto agreement, and extension thereof through the doha amendment, plays a central role in the global approach to tackling climate change.
while the ratification should be seen as europe taking a leading role in tackling climate change, it should also be seen as encouragement for other countries to act similarly to pursue a global solution to climate change.
the doha amendment is a commitment by member states to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of their base year emissions during this period.
one thing i would like to highlight though is that we have to be very careful at european level to balance our needs for food security with climate change, and there is a grave danger that we could bring in measures that would be counter-productive in terms of the development of our agriculture but also in actually creating greater emissions through displacement.
already we have made good progress, particularly in the cap, where greening was an essential element and, indeed, a lot of measures now at member states level are being put in place to reduce emissions through agriculture.
but we must not at the same time finish up in a situation where we are over-strict on agriculture, which actually leads to greater emissions worldwide, as we have seen with some of the measures we have taken in the past.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emission reduction commitments according to which the european union, its member states and iceland are jointly committed to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their base year (mostly 1990) emissions.
that commitment was determined on the basis of the total greenhouse gas emissions allowed during the period 2013-2020 under the eu climate and energy package.
‒ i supported this report because i believe that such an agreement sends a strong signal about eu efforts to address climate change at an international level.
the eu has long been a driving force in international negotiations on climate change and was instrumental in developing the un framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol.
according to these, the eu, its member states and iceland are jointly committed to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of their 1990 emissions.
as iceland already participates in the eu emissions trading system and the eu monitoring mechanism regulation for greenhouse gases, the conclusion of the agreement with iceland with regard to the second commitment period for the kyoto agreement would send a strong signal that europe is leading the way in pursuing a global solution to climate change.
ratification of the doha amendment in a timely manner, before the climate change conference in paris at the end of 2015, is essential.
we are now discussing a european energy security strategy.
i consider it a mistake that this document was not finally adopted, because i am convinced that it could have been the starting point for the future development of the energy union, which i, as a politician in the czech republic, that is, in a country that was formerly under the influence of the soviet union, consider to be extremely important.
the energy union is, in my view, part of the future energy security and independence of countries like russia, which we are discussing here.
on the other hand, i think that the eu should not dictate to individual member states what energy sources they will use in the future, i.e.
we should not say what the energy mix in individual member states should look like.
i am therefore glad that the amendments were not finally adopted, the whole report was not adopted, but the amendments which, for example, were very discriminatory and restricted nuclear energy, which i personally consider to be important, were not adopted.
i think it would be a mistake if in the future, when we come back to this subject, we try to discriminate against certain types of energy.
i therefore say that it is a pity that this material has not been adopted, we should return to the subject of energy security in europe and adopt in the future a regulation which preserves the sovereignty of individual states in the choice of energy sources, but on the other hand strengthens the overall energy security of europe as a whole.
mr president, it is important that europe would take a balanced approach to increase our energy security and to reduce our dependence, particularly on external supplies.
energy security is a key pillar of the union, and the report highlights a number of areas in energy efficiency, renewables and the diversification of the sources of imported energy into europe.
of course the energy mix of every country is a matter of national competence.
in ireland we are free to determine the energy sources used and the natural resources that will be exploited.
there is a major emphasis on this, and i think that emphasis needs to be increased and that this point should be underlined when speaking to individual countries introducing energy efficiencies, particularly in commercial buildings.
there is a focus on domestic dwellings, but there is a huge potential to introduce energy efficiencies in commercial businesses as well.
a report is currently being commissioned by the environment protection agency in ireland and we are waiting for the outcome of that report.
i find it interesting that ms clune talks about a study that is coming forward from the epa (environmental protection agency).
as far as i can understand, that study was presented at the oireachtas committee on the environment today in the republic of ireland, and i think it is important to point out that the organisation that did that study and which was commissioned to do it – cdm smith – are actually involved in the fracking and the shale gas industry.
the eu, in spite of everything, has to be able to develop an effective strategy for energy security in the eu.
we don't have to look at the figures: we import 53% of the energy we use; we import 66% of the gas and 90% of the oil.
after the last debate, they took the energy to the countries that could not use them, like russia.
i could do much more about the energy of athnuachan, gaoth, grian, taoidí agus tonnta ach go háirithe.
research is under way, particularly in my own country, to make energy-efficient films much more efficient and cheaper in the future because of the technology that will be available without research.
i have always been very vocal in my opposition to fracking, which has the potential to cause serious environmental pollution and damage to fish stocks and livestock.
moreover, in many places in the text, it calls for the completion of the internal energy market and ignores the rights of member states to determine their own energy policy, which runs completely contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european energy security strategy.
unfortunately amendment 6 was not carried, but amendment 1 was, and this asks member states not to authorise any new fracking operations, either exploration or extraction, until the technology is proven safe for the environment and for workers.
parliament also supported the statement that we consider fracking entails risks and negative consequences for the climate, environment and public health.
‒ i abstained on this report as the energy mix of a country is a matter of national competence.
i fully support the current moratorium on fracking in ireland and support the government’s position that no decision will be made on any proposal for the use of hydraulic fracturing in exploratory drilling as part of an unconventional gas exploration programme until there has been time to consider the outcome of the research programme directed at examining the potential environmental and human health impacts of hydraulic fracturing commissioned by the environmental protection agency.
i think the focus of this report, particularly on sound and sustainable public finances and structural reforms in order to increase competitiveness, is very welcome.
now, of course, we have the energy union and the capital markets union.
we had two reports in the last parliament, but this is our third opportunity for parliament to lay down our principles and our requirements for a sustainable ttip.
we want to ensure that labour, environmental and social standards are enforceable.
millions of people across europe have mobilised and they have asked this parliament to defend democracy, the environment, workers’ rights, public services and our farming community by rejecting the commission’s current approach to ttip.
the right of farmers to obtain their fruits and vegetables is not sustainable and should not be taken for granted.
however, there were a number of positive aspects to the report including §51 which called on third countries to adhere to eu’s environmental, social , health, food safety and animal welfare standards if they export to the eu.
however, there were a number of positive aspects to the report including §51 which called on third countries to adhere to eu’s environmental, social , health, food safety and animal welfare standards if they export to the eu.
of course, there are many things to be done; in particular, article 51 requires other countries to comply with eu standards on environmental, social, health and safety legislation, but they are trying to export to the eu.
the vote will take place on wednesday, 8 july 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by ivo belet, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council concerning the establishment and operation of a market stability reserve for the union greenhouse gas emission trading scheme and amending directive 2003/87/ec (com(2014)0020 – c7—0016/2014 – 2014/0011(cod)) (a8—0029/2015).
certainly, we have two targets: one is to reduce emissions in the european union by 40% by 2030, and the other is to grow industry by 20% of gdp.
i am the rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) on climate change in paris, and hopefully this will lead to a successful summit.
particularly, the area of microfinance is something that can really be established to support smes because governments, commissions, councils do not actually create jobs, but they certainly can contribute to creating the environment within which jobs can flourish.
we should focus on the needs of the people, the employment and the high standards to be provided, and the commitments to be made for the sustainable phase of the cycle.
the inefficient use of resources needs to be tackled – climate change, the impact of our actions on the environment: the more knowledge we have, the more potential we have to protect these areas.
innovation, how to tackle pollution, how to tackle pollution of our waterways, waste disposal, energy efficiency, various areas in which jobs in the green economy can be created.
in this context i fully support the view that sustainable patterns of consumption and production have a very significant potential to generate new jobs and help transform existing jobs into green jobs.
in that context, we should listen to cedefop who propose that adapting curricula and including environmental awareness with an understanding of sustainable development and business efficiency is better than proposing new training programmes.
i fully support the phasing-out of environmentally harmful subsidies and indeed i support the rapporteur when she calls for the phasing-out of all subsidies by 2020. i also support the call to the commission requesting independent studies on the costs and benefits of a shift in the tax burden, for example from labour to environmental taxation.
in the area of social policy, this fund can alleviate energy poverty by promoting energy-efficient homes and in the context of job creation we, in alde, fully support the creation of decent jobs, as defined by the ilo, which will lead to quality employment.
public procurement can also play an important role in the transition by including proactive environmental and social criteria.
any shift in taxation from labour to the environment should target the major polluters and aim at changing polluting behaviour.
this parliament should also call on the commission to ensure that the just transition agenda remains a strong part of its negotiating position at the cop 21 paris climate summit.
the european parliament has today adopted a resolution on the protection of the environment and the protection of the public.
‒ i voted against this report as it is sinn fein’s position that the ttip being negotiated by the eu and united states will have disastrous consequences for democracy in member states, the environment, labour rights and public services.
i voted in favour of several amendments which ranged from an outright rejection of the ttip project to protection of workers’ rights, food and water standards, public services, and the environment.
‒ i voted against this report as it is sinn féin’s position that the trans-atlantic trade and investment partnership being negotiated by the european commission and united states will have disastrous consequences for democracy in member states, the environment, labour rights and public services based on the current mandate.
these ranged from an outright rejection of the current ttip project to specific amendments aimed at protecting workers’ rights, food and water standards, public services, and the environment.
the ttip will have a seriously detrimental impact in ireland – on jobs, agriculture, the environment, workers’ rights and vital public services.
‒ i voted against this report as it is sinn fein’s position that the trans-atlantic trade and investment partnership being negotiated by the european union and united states will have disastrous consequences for democracy in member states, the environment, labour rights and public services.
these ranged from an outright rejection of the ttip project to specific amendments aimed at protecting workers’ rights, food and water standards, public services, and the environment.
the ttip will have a seriously detrimental impact in ireland – on jobs, agriculture, the environment, workers’ rights and vital public services.
the focus is on the importance of finding a global solution to the climate crisis.
‒ the european commission’s so-called ‘cornerstone’ of its climate-change policy, the emissions trading scheme, has been an objective and unmitigated failure.
its aim to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner has clearly not been achieved.
the surplus of allowances has had a major impact on the carbon price.
‒ the european commission’s so-called ‘cornerstone’ of its climate-change policy, the emissions trading scheme, has been an objective and unmitigated failure.
its aim to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner has clearly not been achieved.
the surplus of allowances has had a major impact on the carbon price.
‒ i voted in favour of the report for the establishment of a market stability reserve (msr) for the eu greenhouse gas emission trading system.
the setting up of the market stability reserve in the eu emissions trading system will help put the eu’s climate policies back on track.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to make structural changes to the emissions trading system addressing in particular the surplus of emission allowances which have built up in the market since 2009. this report addresses the issue of the ‘back-loaded’ allowances, commits to reviewing the ets directive and the issue of carbon leakage and supports the establishment of an innovation fund generated by the auctioning of 300 million allowances to help industry’s transition to low-carbon technology.
‒ the european commission’s so-called ‘cornerstone’ of its climate-change policy, the emissions trading scheme, has been an objective and unmitigated failure.
its aim to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner has clearly not been achieved.
the surplus of allowances has had a major impact on the carbon price.
in the absence of such a directive, there is no need to protect the environment and the aim of the report is to ensure that the same conditions apply to the environment and the environment as to the protection of the environment.
we should focus on the needs of the people, the quality of employment to be provided, and the commitments to be made for the sustainable, inclusive phase.
we should focus on the needs of the people, the quality of employment to be provided, and the commitments to be made for the sustainable, inclusive phase.
we should focus on the needs of the people, the quality of employment to be provided, and the commitments to be made for the sustainable, inclusive phase.
mr president, this report on tapping into the job creation potential of the green economy is a most worthwhile contribution to the debate, and in particular i support jean lambert’s stance on investing in energy efficiency.
energy poverty affects 125 million people at european level, and investing in energy- efficient homes achieves a quadruple win.
it helps alleviate energy poverty.
it ensures a significant reduction in dependence on the use of fossil fuels and in particular on imported fossil fuels, and crucially it helps to reduce co2 emissions and fight climate change.
but of course, we can do a lot to improve the environment and employment by using energy properly, saving it and using it effectively.
a just transition means ensuring targeted skills training and assistance is provided for workers and students – including workers dislocated from declining polluting industries – in emerging green technologies and energy efficiency.
public procurement can also play an important role in the transition by including proactive environmental and social criteria.
a just transition means ensuring targeted skills training and assistance is provided for workers and students – including workers dislocated from declining polluting industries – in emerging green technologies and energy efficiency.
this means that training must be provided to give workers and students the green technologies and energy efficiency they need.
obviously, apart from the economic benefits, there are the environmental benefits.
we have just talked about waste.
the word waste means that you are wasting something.
obviously the less waste we have, the more use we make of our resources and the more efficient we are.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the circular economy and am pleased that the majority of the european parliament has as well, especially in light of the commission’s decision to withdraw the waste proposal earlier this year.
any such move will not only benefit our environment but also contribute to significant cost-savings whilst creating an estimated 2 million new jobs by 2050.
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the circular economy and am pleased that the majority of the european parliament has as well, especially in light of the commission’s decision to withdraw the waste proposal earlier this year.
any such move will not only benefit our environment but also contribute to significant cost-savings whilst creating an estimated 2 million new jobs by 2050.
in writing.
minimising waste generation and resource use will not only reduce costs but will also increase eu competitiveness.
the report had several strong demands by parliament, including updated european waste and recycling targets as well as targets on food waste and the creation of economic incentives.
this own initiative calls on the commission to review legislation such as the eco-design directive and submit a new proposal on waste legislation.
moving towards a circular economy by increasing resource productivity by 30% by 2030 could boost the eu’s gdp by nearly 1% and create an extra 2 million sustainable jobs.
the benefits of an environment that is safe, that is free from any laws, will be the enormous cost savings to be made and will be around 2 billion by 2050.
in writing.
we have the banking union, hopefully we will have an energy union, and the capital markets union is very important as well.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 september 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by angelika niebler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on family businesses in europe (2014/2210(ini)) (a8-0223/2015).
the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 september 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by joão ferreira, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on untapping the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create jobs and growth (2014/2240(ini)) (a8-0214/2015).
the vote will take place on tuesday, 8 september 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by lynn boylan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the follow-up to the european citizens’ initiative right2water (2014/2239(ini)) (a8-0228/2015).
vote: 8 september 2015. written statements (rule 162)
rapporteur.– mr president, i just have said to the tabling committee that we want to put forward an oral amendment for paragraph 92. the oral amendment is: ‘calls on the member states to introduce, in accordance with world health organisation guidelines, a pricing policy by the application of a progressive charge that safeguards people’s right to access a minimum quantity of water for living and reduces waste’.
with an estimated 150 000 business forced to close every year, we policy-makers need to create the right framework conditions to prevent these losses and provide the necessary cost-efficient infrastructures in order to ensure competitiveness, renewal, growth and sustainability of these family businesses.
mr president, we must look upon the blue economy as an asset, providing incredible opportunities for tourism, energy and food, and new applications for therapeutics and technology.
this report contained some very positive provisions, specifically paragraph 5, which underlined the importance of the ecosystem approach and the precautionary principle, which should be at the core of the blue economy.
it is something that the report addresses and i would like to see it included in our curricula in schools, because it is very important to give young people the ability and the confidence to think for themselves and not depend on others to give them information, but instead to have confidence that they, too, can be a successful business person and can use their energy to get out there in the marketplace and develop and innovate.
‒ while this recommendation contained some positive merits, specifically when it comes to investing in sustainable small-scale fisheries and socio-economic development, it failed to promote the more genuinely sustainable development of guinea-bissau’s fisheries sector and of related industries and activities, in particular small scale fisheries that greatly contribute to food security and local livelihoods.
furthermore, while there is acknowledgment of the importance of gathering data on catches and conservation, there is not enough emphasis on the environment and conservation.
‒ while this report contained some positive merits specifically when it comes to investing in sustainable small-scale fisheries and socio-economic development, it failed to promote the more genuinely sustainable development of guinea-bissau’s fisheries sector and of related industries and activities, in particular small scale fisheries that greatly contribute to food security and local livelihoods.
furthermore, while there is acknowledgment of the importance of gathering data on catches and conservation, there is not enough emphasis on the environment and conservation.
– the file does have some merits especially when it comes to investing in sustainable small-scale fisheries and socio-economic development.
furthermore, the commission stated this fishing protocol will be in line with the principles of a sustainable exploitation of natural resources.
furthermore, the commission stated this fishing protocol will be in line with the principles of a sustainable exploitation of natural resources.
‒ it must be noted that the agreement is much better than previous ones on how close eu-vessels are allowed to fish (further out than before), it takes account of the new, mostly good, eu policy on sustainable fishing and gives higher financial compensation/payment as well as better help to local fishery communities.
we need to strongly support the environmental, transportation, educational and employment needs of urban areas in order to ensure they are attractive places to live and work and furthermore cater for the needs of different sectors and age groups in society across member states.
this has serious implications for our economies, for stability and social cohesion, and ultimately for the sustainability of our social protection systems.
in order to fight unemployment, guarantee quality in employment and allow europe to grow in a sustainable way, we need to ensure the right skills for our workers.
the commission provides several channels of financial support but it is also taking initiatives, for instance with the oecd, to better understand the sector and support member states in their efforts to build up an environment conducive to social enterprises.
we have heard that these enterprises employ 14 million people and contribute to social inclusion, rural and regional development and environmental protection.
when it comes to the sustainability of the irish health service it is quite clear that it is not sustainable, and one of the reasons is because we are haemorrhaging money paying for the collapse of a banking system, a system that collapsed but for which we – and not the speculators – paid the price.
how can you have a sustainable healthcare system when the taxation that is paid for our health and for our education is spent on paying back a debt that was never ours?
in 2016, we will have to pay eur 500 million a year again and burn it, same in 2017, same in 2018. how the hell can that be sustainable?
those to improve the energy-efficiency of transport, to promote public transport, the need to abolish environmentally harmful tax subsidies and prevent social dumping in transport sector europe.
mr president, i supported this resolution on belarus, but i specifically want to explain my vote on amendment 1. this amendment expressed concern at the decision to build a nuclear plant in ostrovets, and called on belarus to stop its construction until a fully independent environmental impact assessment is carried out.
i fully subscribe to the idea that all countries have an absolute right to decide on their energy sources.
representing nearly half of all undertakings in the eu and employing about 14 million people, social enterprises make a huge contribution not just to employment but also to social inclusion, to local and to regional development and to environmental protection.
the aim of the report is primarily to identify the lack of transpositions and the problems arising in the members states notably transport services, environment and health.
the aim of the report is primarily to identify the lack of transpositions and the problems arising in the members states notably transport services, environment and health.
the european parliament, in its report to the committee on energy, research and technology (itre) on cop 21, has set a target of keeping the world's air temperature below 2°c; the world's air temperature would be set at 3°c.
additionally, i believe the report keeps focus on many of the other important issues facing the eu at the moment, including environmental, health, social and economic matters.
particularly now, in the global sense, we are looking for sustainable development goals.
in paris, where i will be representing parliament, we will be hoping to get a global agreement on climate change.
the country has to face liquidity shortages and a major lack of public funds available for the public investment needed in order to foster a sustainable recovery.
it is of the utmost importance that we support our fellow member state in order to ensure it is able to make a sustainable recovery.
‒ i voted in favour of this report due to the fact that i am a firm believer that efficient governance at a local level is vital in order to achieve sustainable development and positive results.
challenges which local communities face are more urgently and effectively solved when there is good governance at a local level, such as migration, rapid urbanisation, depletion of resources, public safety and violence, climate adaptation and mitigation and so forth.
‒ i supported this resolution as i consider good governance at a local level to be pivotal in achieving sustainable development.
air pollution is a major, yet preventable, killer in europe, and in my home country, ireland, 1 300 premature deaths are attributed to bad air quality.
these immense costs to citizens’ health, national budgets and, of course, to the environment should be taken very seriously indeed, and we cannot continue to kick the can down the road on air quality.
added to ireland’s continual breach of nitrogen oxide limits, it shows that much more must be done if we are serious about tackling air pollution.
therefore, the aim is to cover the emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants that are not regulated at eu level, while small combustion plants can be covered by ecodesign directive, and large combustion plants by the industrial emissions directive (ied).
this is a very important step to improve air quality for the sake of human health and the environment.
although many of us would like to see stronger provisions in place, the directive allows member states to enforce stricter emissions values, which countries will have to consider for areas where eu air quality standards are not met.
the review clause contained in the directive should lead to increased reductions in emissions in the near future.
nitrogen oxide emissions, which are at the heart of the current volkswagen emissions scandal, cause serious respiratory complications and are responsible for premature death.
innovation and sustainability go hand-in-hand with proper regulation.
energy efficiency stands to win from this move.
while emissions of air pollutants from small and large combustion plants are regulated at eu level, there is no specific regulation for medium-sized combustion plants.
air pollution is estimated to lead to more than 400 000 premature deaths per year and causing health costs of up to eur 940 billion.
reducing emissions from medium combustion plants can help contribute to achieving eu climate and energy targets through reducing greenhouse gases and improving energy efficiency.
contracting authorities shall be required to take steps to ensure that, when executing contracts, operators comply with the environmental, social and labour law obligations established by the eu or national legislation, collective agreements or the international environmental, social and labour conventions.
contracting authorities shall be required to take steps to ensure that, when executing contracts, operators comply with the environmental, social and labour law obligations established by the eu or national legislation, collective agreements or the international environmental, social and labour conventions.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it respects the application of environmental and labour rules are upheld as well as respecting sustainability criteria.
contracting authorities shall be required to take steps to ensure that, when executing contracts, operators comply with the environmental, social and labour law obligations established by the eu or national legislation, collective agreements or the international environmental, social and labour conventions.
finally, as rapporteur for the data protection regulation for the committee on industry, research and energy, i welcome in particular some key points in this report recognising that the user’s personal data is transmitted through safe channels and that it is shared only with the user’s consent and to the minimum possible extent.
the chancellor angela merkel and the president of france, francois hollande, said that we should focus more on africa, help more people with climate-related issues, and create a better economy and a better life for the people of africa.
our focus was to engage in trilogues to ensure that sustainable economic growth and growth-friendly fiscal measures were the core aims.
my role was to engage in trilogues to ensure that sustainable economic growth and growth-friendly fiscal measures were the core aims.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it calls for positive developments for environmental practices.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.– mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), i want to thank my colleagues who helped me to get what i think is a very balanced opinion.
hopefully we will now get a strong mandate, going forward to paris, from the entire parliament, because global warming is something i think we all recognise is happening.
we have to deal with climate change and we are going there with form, in the sense that we have given leadership in the past and we intend to do so into the future.
i welcome the call for the commission to present a sustainable long-term plan for the crisis and particularly welcome and support the focus on search and rescue operations.
i welcome the call for the commission to present a sustainable long-term plan for the crisis, and particularly welcome and support the focus on search and rescue operations.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which outlines parliament’s position towards the un conference on climate change to be held in paris in december.
the challenge of cop 21 is delivering a new global climate agreement involving all countries by 2015, giving a renewed commitment after the kyoto protocol.
‒ climate change is nothing less than an existential threat.
climate change is affecting and will increasingly continue to affect every aspect of our lives, our well—being, our health, our economy and the ecosystems we depend on for survival.
we are more exposed to uv light than we have even been, the depletion of ozone will drastically increase the incidence of all types of skin cancer.
the impact of climate change and its causes on our health is already evident.
where there is high air pollution, a greater number of children are admitted into hospitals with lung problems, the quality of the water which we drink has decreased considerably.
we urgently need a binding agreement, showing international collective responsibility, to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions.
we are at serious risk of failure in averting dangerous and potentially catastrophic climate change.
this proposal meets the challenges of both the modern environment and traditional sales.
‒ i supported this report granting the discharge as the artemis joint undertaking assists in the crucial development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas in order to strengthen eu competiveness and sustainability and to allow for the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
this report will also help correct previous problems identified by the analysis of staff exit interviews which highlighted a lack of clear career perspective, a difficult working environment and an unattractive salary package which led to a high turnover of staff.
‒ i supported this report granting the discharge as the artemis joint undertaking assists in the crucial development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas in order to strengthen eu competiveness and sustainability and to allow for the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
‒ air pollution by emission is becoming a serious threat to eu citizens’ health, causing 430 000 premature deaths every year.
an investigation into vehicle emissions test manipulation is welcomed and extensive checks should be conducted by the relevant national authorities.
the commission should put in place a new real driving emissions test cycle as soon as practicable.
this measure will also work to create additional protection for the environment, aiming to regulate emissions.
‒ i supported this report but was disappointed that an amendment to ensure reimbursement of subsidies and tax benefits received on the basis of claimed environmental performance where a defeat device was found was narrowly defeated.
air pollution causes over 430 000 premature deaths in the eu yearly and costs up to an estimated eur 940 billion annually as result of the health impacts.
i welcome the votes by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and rural development to reject this half-baked proposal, and i call on all meps now to do the same.
citizens and environmental groups have genuine concerns surrounding gm foods, including about their environmental impact and their implications for food sovereignty, and these are clearly reflected in the decision by 19 member states to opt out of gm cultivation.
it is a rarity when biotech companies and environmental ngos are in agreement.
i am also aware that young scientists, including young irish scientists, are leaving the european union because there is not a welcoming environment for research in this area.
the report that came from the environment, public health and food safety committee was good, but while this legislation is an improvement on the council’s position, it still fails to address key concerns with the legislating of novel foods.
we must have longitudinal studies on the impact of this technology on the environment and human health.
they concern the environmental protection of red coral, and tackling incidental catches of seabirds, sharks and seals.
remotely operated underwater vehicles (rovs) will be prohibited from harvesting red coral, environmental protection will be stepped up for certain species, and member states will be at liberty to grant derogations for fishermen.
they concern the environmental protection of red coral, and tackling incidental catches of seabirds, sharks and seals.
remotely operated underwater vehicles (rovs) will be prohibited from harvesting red coral, environmental protection will be stepped up for certain species, and member states will be at liberty to grant derogations for fishermen.
it also helps assist in the sustainable exploitation of red coral and the sustainable development of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
they concern the environmental protection of red coral, and tackling incidental catches of seabirds, sharks and seals.
remotely operated underwater vehicles (rovs) will be prohibited from harvesting red coral, environmental protection will be stepped up for certain species, and member states will be at liberty to grant derogations for fishermen.
any approval system within the eu would need to be based on an assessment of the impact on conventional and organic farmers, animal and human health as well as the environment.
products should obviously not pose a risk to human health but in addition they should also not pose a risk to animal welfare or to the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets the emission targets for certain atmospheric pollutants, including sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and ammonia, until 2030. the revised directive on the reduction of national emissions puts controls on different types of air pollution in each member state.
its goal is to cut the number of premature deaths caused by air pollution – estimated as 400 000 a year in the eu – by half by 2030. when voting on the proposed amendments, i bore in mind targets that could be realistically achieved by ireland.
‒ i welcome the outcome of today’s vote to set stricter air pollutant emissions rules and ceilings, which member state governments are bound to meet by 2030, with interim targets for 2025. we want to control a suite of toxic pollutants that accounts for over half a million premature deaths throughout europe.
although cattle got off the hook for their belching, we have included under the rules ammonia and methane, mostly arising from agricultural use, given the vast emissions coming from this sector.
coal pollution seems to have blinded many policymakers to the incontrovertible scientific evidence about this dangerous neurotoxin.
‒ this proposal repeals and replaces the current union regime on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants, as defined in directive 2001/81/ec.
research work on mitigating methane emissions through changes in the diet of animals is in its early stages: this approach could offer solutions as a part of a wider strategy which must be in place to assist the agricultural sector meet necessary targets in advance of ceilings being set.
‒ i voted in favour of the rapporteur’s proposal to take this file to trilogue negotiations because i believe that parliament has come up with a good position with realistic targets that will reduce air pollution.
‒ i decided to support this report due to the fact that cohesion policy, as the main eu investment instrument and as an expression of european solidarity, is closely aligned with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in fact, in the general sense, we are not doing too badly in trying to reach them, especially in the areas of employment, r&d, greenhouse gas emissions and education.
i think they are all reachable by 2020. two areas where we are not doing too well, and some have referred to this, are, firstly, poverty and social exclusion – that certainly has to be looked at and we have to redouble our efforts to reach our targets in that area – and, secondly, an area of importance to me particularly, energy efficiency.
i think we need to incentivise customers, householders, young people and, of course, developers to build energy-efficient houses.
but coming in here this morning, i am delighted to hear cases being put forward by my colleagues and the impact it actually has on citizens and on agriculture, costs and energy.
secondly, the carbon footprint has been referred to, and obviously that is a concern because it is huge, and the commissioner referred to having powerful regulatory tools to limit co2 emissions, but also, as one of those representing parliament at cop21 in paris, i hope that both the aviation and maritime industries can be included in a global agreement, which we hope we will be able to reach there.
the approach to be adopted should be improved, and the common approach should be taken to support the annual budget and to support the social process and sustainable development within the framework of the treaties.
‒ i supported this report, as it increasingly enhances the potential quality of public services and creates an environment in which businesses can become more competitive and citizens can obtain greater satisfaction.
mr president, it is disappointing that the commission’s energy strategy is weak in its proposals for a move to a low—carbon economy.
we must shift the balance of energy needs to renewables and underline the absolute need for ambitious targets for efficiency.
last week’s state of the energy union report by the commissioner unfortunately seems to equate energy security with a ramping—up of gas and nuclear.
simply diversifying and changing gas suppliers ignores options which are safer politically and better for the climate.
the commissioner speaks of putting energy first, but has already hamstrung ambitious targets and has gone against the principle of mutual respect between the institutions since this parliament backed a 40% target in october.
perhaps i should not be surprised at the feebleness of the plan for energy and the climate, given that four out of every five meetings of the climate and energy commissioners were with lobbyists for private energy and fossil fuel companies.
– absolutely not; i do not support nuclear energy.
when we talk about barking up the wrong tree with our ukip colleagues, i hope there is a tree high enough when the country is sinking due to climate change.
firstly, i welcome the proposals from the commission to date on the energy union.
in relation to renewables, these are obviously something that most people would want, but we also need to create a climate where the fear that has taken place among many people in the public can be allayed so that they can see renewables as something that is very good for the environment -- good for our resources and particularly good for them.
finally, i would just like to say that i will be representing parliament in paris at the cop 21. we need a binding agreement, and an agreement where all the big emitters play their part, because we don't want a situation where we have a result that leads to carbon leakage from europe.
‒ i chose to support this proposal as it will enhance the bid to contribute to rational and sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
‒ while we have reservations about the eu representing the member states in certain capacities, we supported this report with the view that bluefin fish stocks will be better protected from international iuu fishing with the eu as a full member of ccsbt amongst other members like japan and south korea, who have a poor record when it comes to sustainability and overexploitation of stocks.
now those are shocking statistics, and i suppose the questions that we must answer here this evening are, first of all, how can we narrow the current pension gap and, secondly, what can we do to ensure that the pensions of those now in employment are adequate and sustainable?
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because article 1 of reach states that the aim of the regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, and that only substances that do not adversely affect human health and the environment are put on the market.
such hazardous chemicals pose threats to human health and the environment.
austerity policies in many eu countries have led to a reduction in the number of labour inspectors, which is to the detriment of worker’s rights, including their right to a safe and healthy working environment.
the economic benefits of ambitious policies in the area of occupational health and safety are well documented and include higher productivity and labour force participation as well as increased sustainability of social security systems.
in a climate of increasing fear and denigration of the freedom of expression, the government must move away from defending laws that prohibit criticism of itself and instead must protect free, independent and secular thought.
opening up trade is imperative if we want to see sustainable economic growth, in particular in low-income developing countries.
wto actions should be able to contribute to achieving the recently adopted sustainable development goals instead of solely pushing trade liberalisation.
positive aspects of the resolution include calling on the ecuadorian government to combat poverty, protect indigenous tribes, cooperate on specific environmental and deforestation programmes, recognise fair trade, and further principles of democracy and human rights.
despite these positive aspects and attempts by myself to amend certain paragraphs, the text that was eventually adopted included wording that called for the ‘quick and complete entry into force and implementation of the agreement’, thereby negating the call for reflection on aspects of the agreement dealing with labour rights, sustainable development, the environment, etc.
firstly, we had a very good discussion on the circular economy, and now we are discussing sustainable urban mobility.
ensuring the efficient implementation of the common rules on standards and procedures for the control and surveillance of the external borders with respect to fundamental rights, by means of closer coordination of operational cooperation between member states, is fundamental in the current migration climate.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we need to look at ways to reduce conventional car use in order to bring down our carbon emissions and air pollution.
sustainable urban mobility will never be achieved if we refuse to invest in public transport.
it discusses the need for, and ways to reduce conventional car use, carbon emissions and air pollution in european cities by promoting public transport without imposing solutions on member states.
sinn fein policy supports the ‘polluter pays’ principle for major polluters but not in consumer taxes, for example the irish carbon tax.
– adequate, sustainable urban mobility solutions hold a lot of potential in our efforts to address growing sources of inequality and achieve the eu climate change targets.
we aim to halve the use of ‘conventionally fuelled’ cars in urban transport by 2030, and to eliminate their use by 2050. we also want to make carbon-free movement of goods a reality in major urban areas by 2050. in order for this to happen, policymakers must promote mobility improvements that are efficient, sustainable and less dependent on the use of private, conventionally fuelled cars.
urban mobility is not just about transport systems and emissions, people are the driving force of the economy.
their vital role in ensuring the quality and safety of public transport must be born in mind to ensure the sustainability of these essential services.
‒ sustainable urban mobility requires high-quality investment that will serve the general interest.
in order to develop and maintain urban transport infrastructure, the main idea is to dedicate a part of eu funds such as the erdf, cef and cohesion funds to sustainable urban mobility projects.
the transformation to more sustainable modes of transport is very important looking into the future.
this report will aim to redirect urban mobility towards more sustainable modes of transport with the goal of facing up to the challenges of our century, mainly protecting the climate, health and environment as well as the well-being and security of citizens.
mr president, i fully support the priority objective of an energy union and we need to move quickly in this direction.
we are not going to get the growth we all want to see across the 28 member states of the european union unless we have a sufficient energy supply.
it is crucially important that we back the framework convention (fc) proposals, the juncker plan, and use the opportunity of investment so that we can get more interconnectors and get more networks in place to make sure that we have the infrastructure in place to create a genuine energy union across the european union.
i come from ireland, a country which imports over eur 7 billion worth of energy every single year because we are at the end of a very long gas pipeline.
we depend on others for our energy supply.
we have got to make sure that energy becomes more efficient in our building, and all other things we need to do to make sure this energy union happens.
it is simply not acceptable that the commission announced on friday that it plans to authorise a gm product just days after the committee on the environment, public health and food safety voted in parliament to ban it.
the micro-environment is outside the test area and is fairly useful to help those who are in the area.
the damage is not caused by climate change but by the destruction of the environment in the first place; it is the damage caused by storms and the strategic planning that is the cause of these laws.
dominica, which is a small island developing country, is making considerable efforts to diversify its economy and has real potential for growth, particularly in tourism and the production of geothermal energy.
although its economy is relatively small compared with that of other caribbean countries and is mainly based on farming, and despite its vulnerability to external shocks, saint lucia is seeking to create an environment favourable to investment and development of the private sector.
in addition, we have a number of concerns with the proposed financial transaction tax, environmental tax, etc., which we believe are intended to strip a member state of its financial competencies.
ireland broadly supports the measures contained within the proposals, which were generally welcomed by our stakeholders, as it was considered that they would constitute positive developments from the perspective of the likely business interests in ireland, as it is believed that innovative export oriented companies require a predictable and consistent legal and regulatory environment across europe within which they can exploit the competitive advantage of their intellectual property rights, without undue expense and onerous administrative burden.
moreover, there were important provisions which acknowledged both the environmental and economic-social aspects of fisheries and for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in north east atlantic fisheries to which the european union is a contracting party aims to ensure the long term conservation and optimum utilisation of the fishery resources of the north east atlantic area, providing sustainable, environmental and social benefits.
this will bring lasting results for the environment and also help create positive results in terms of social aspects.
apart from anything else, we have just concluded a climate deal in paris which seeks to limit co2 emissions into the atmosphere.
apart from the public health and the environmental risks such as possible leakage of methane, further production of co2 and the possible leakage of benzene into watercourses, it seems to me that, from an economic perspective, fracking is no longer promising.
finally, i want to say that i fully recognise and support that the energy mix for any member state is primarily a matter for that member state.
but it is my strongly-held view that, from an environmental and public health perspective, and now an economic perspective, fracking should not be part of our energy mix in the eu.
‒ this report reacts to the commission’s communication on a european energy union.
particular emphasis is put on aspects relating to energy security, such as the need to diversify energy sources and supply routes.
it also refers to initiatives necessary to accomplish the completion of the internal energy market.
‒ i voted for this report as the eu imports more than half of all the energy it consumes.
its import dependency is particularly high for crude oil (more than 90 %), natural gas (66 %) and hard coal (72 %), and the total import bill is more than eur 400 billion in 2013. the goal of a resilient energy union with an ambitious climate policy at its core is to ensure the transition to a new energy model which empowers households and businesses to produce and consume secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy.
the energy union should be a new energy model for europe, based on strong cross-cutting legislative grounds and strong objectives.
‒ i voted in in favour of this report as it aims to strengthen the security of energy supply and increase energy efficiency at an affordable cost.
firstly, the report says that the ambitious energy targets should be agreed by the regions.
i am very supportive of the general ecological principles behind the management plans but due to the reasons outlined above.
‒ the common fisheries policy was reformed in 2013 so as to get the maximum yields of fish whilst also being sustainable.
there are 11 multiannual plans in the eu and they have to include a maximum sustainable yield target and a deadline for achieving it, discard ban and compulsory landing implementation provisions, remedial safeguards and review clauses.
there is an urgent need to establish a coherent set of technical measures for each of the three main basins, taking account of the specific nature of each, where union decisions may have a significant impact on the recovery of fish stocks and the protection of ecosystems and on the sustainable management of shared fish stocks.
for us, we should complete the energy union as quickly as possible and become the renewables capital of the world.
in my own country, we have a great opportunity to progress with ocean energy.
– i voted in favour of the resolution as i believe it makes sense from a biodiversity perspective.
in order to protect native biodiversity and ecosystem services and minimise the human health and economic impacts that these invasive species could potentially have, it is crucial that the list ensures those with the most significant adverse impacts are listed.
many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not listed, while some species incapable of causing a significant negative impact on biodiversity, ecosystem services, human health or the economy, or for which the measures to be taken would result in disproportionate costs, are listed.
in order to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market, i have chosen to vote against this report.
we should be proud to give them the tools they need to fight climate change; and we should be proud that they are going to die because of the harm they have caused us and will continue to cause us.
in particular it reinforced several concerns on human rights, freedom of expression and environmental issues.
the eu-china strategic partnership is of key importance to relations between the eu and the people’s republic of china (prc) and to finding mutual answers to a range of global concerns and identifying common interests, such as global and regional security, counter-terrorism, the fight against organised crime, cybersecurity, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development, it is also critical in creating a framework to address bilateral concerns between the eu and china.
positive aspects of the report included calling for matters such as population increase, urbanisation, climate change, gender equality and migration to be taken into account in humanitarian action.
– i abstained on this report which was aimed at developing a sustainable european base metals industry.
furthermore, multinational companies have taken advantage of lower social and environmental standards to shift production to countries outside of europe, resulting in huge job losses on the continent.
while i could see good aspects of the report which were aimed at improving the social and employment aspects of the base metal sector, i could not support this report for its weaknesses on environmental issues.
parts of the report sought to blame regulations put in place to save the environment for the choice of these multinationals so move elsewhere.
‒ the draft report stresses the need to support the base metal industry as it is particularly vulnerable to outside competition (dumping prices) and also to eu climate and energy policy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it deals with several concerning issues that need to be highlighted in the basic material industry in europe such as climate change, border adjustment measures, emissions policy, energy policy, transparency and merger acquisitions.
‒ i voted for this report because it stresses the need to support the base metal industry as it in particular is vulnerable to outside competition and also to eu climate and energy policy.
we were well received and vietnam was very appreciative, particularly of the eur 400 million we are giving under the present framework programme, much of which is going to combat climate change.
on monday, i voted in the environment committee to reject lax ‘real driving emissions’ standards for measuring compliance with eu car pollution limits.
my political group had vowed to veto the proposals in a letter to the eu environment ministers, criticising the commission and the council of eu ministers for the technical proposals on driving emissions tests, diluting the decade-old euro 6 standards.
we cannot fail to take action on foot of a scandal with serious impact on respiratory health, the environment and corporate governance at the heart of europe.
the eu automobile industry cannot be allowed to keep dictating the main thrust of public policies that affect these industrial giants, to the detriment of our citizens’ health and the environment.
lastly the pca strengthens the sectoral cooperation across a wide range of policy fields, such as taxation, migration, health, environment, climate change, energy, education and culture, labour, employment and social affairs, science and technology, and transport.
vietnam is a valued partner for the eu in the climate change negotiations and has pledged to reduce emissions by 8 to 10 per cent, compared with 2010, and to reduce energy consumption per gdp by 1 to 1.5 per cent per year in the run-up to the un climate change conference in paris in november 2015. i welcome the fact that that vietnam has taken specific measures to develop knowledge and research on science and technology, to address the weaknesses in higher education, to attract overseas vietnamese and to cooperate with european and us academic institutions to help in this process.
full implementation of the dpa is in order to ensure sustainable return and also fair, comprehensive and durable solutions for internally displaced people, refugees and other conflict- affected persons, continues to be needed.
‒ i supported this resolution as access to biological plant material encompassing plant traits is absolutely necessary for boosting innovation and the development of new varieties in order to guarantee global food security, tackle climate change and prevent monopolies within the breeding sector, while at the same time providing more opportunities for smes.
‒ the deve committee resolution, among other things, stresses the absolute need to prevent irreversible damage to the virunga national park (vpn), which was designated by unesco as a world heritage site in 1979, and as a world heritage site in danger in 1994; deplores that the vnp has also become one of the most dangerous places in the world when it comes to wildlife conservation; emphasises that irreversible damage to the vnp could occur as a result of exploration and exploitation of oil or other illegal activities; calls on the commission and the member states to further address, in an effective manner, the root causes of armed conflicts and corruption, to support sustainable development and peace-building strategies and projects in the vnp and in the surrounding region; and urges the commission, the member states, the democratic republic of congo and the oil companies interested in drilling for oil to protect the current borders and neighbouring areas of the vnp from the exploitation of fossil fuels.