in fact, soon sardinia could be filled with radioactive waste.
after imposing military bases and their pollution of lead and uranium dust, now, to harm the health of citizens, there may also be nuclear waste.
with just days to go before the material is sorted, the government is keeping everyone in the dark about where, how and how much waste to store.
it is time for someone, europe first, to take action and avert the terrible fate that this island could face: the aim is to become europe's first toxic waste dump.
she promised to commit ambition, energy, courage - qualities i acknowledge - but they remained words!
in six months you have spent a lot of energy looking for little loopholes in treaties that need to be rewritten or scrapped.
there were missed opportunities: the energy efficiency agreement, sealed at a lower price, sold to the interests of who knows what powerful powers; the gmo regulation which condemns our farmers to fall into the hands of biotech multinationals; immigration policies, which are poorly constrained to one programme, triton, whose financial allocation is again left to the goodwill of individual states; the lack of transparency on ttip, an agreement which risks further hampering european businesses; the digital agenda programme which does not provide for concrete investments to make our economy more modern and competitive.
i would like to ask you, mr salini, since you are new but you are a member of a party in the european parliament which strongly supports the stability and growth pact, whether what president renzi has achieved this semester to amend the stability and growth pact and then the fiscal compact will be sustainable for italians from a fiscal point of view?
this is my question: i want to know if you think this is sustainable, because italians need to know that they will be impoverished in the coming years.
the italian presidency also gave the final impetus to a number of environmental dossiers, culminating in their adoption.
among the many: - the directive on freedom from the prohibition of the cultivation of gmos; - the agreement on standards for the disposal of single-use plastic bags; - ratification of the extension of the kyoto climate agreements.
we have achieved a renewed commitment to policies for sustainable and inclusive growth, as also evidenced by the juncker plan, on which we as socialists and democrats have insisted and will continue to insist.
a common european position was defined in view of the lima conference, despite the resistance of some member states, including with the 2030 framework agreement on climate and energy.
the most important changes included the possibility for member states to act as public health and environmental risk managers when deciding whether or not to grow gm plants, to ban their use because of environmental and health hazards that efsa continues to ignore, to ensure the application of the polluter pays principle and more.
these same amendments were confirmed at second reading and voted by a very large majority in the committee on the environment, which had also expressed its total opposition to the obscene proposal of the council that it could be expected that a member state would have to recognize biotech companies as the interlocutors with whom to agree national restrictions, and it was on these guidelines that we had given the green light to the trilogue.
for those of us who, like myself, want to preserve our traditional products, who want to protect the biodiversity that is a richness of our land, who want to avoid product approval, this text is a step forward.
for this reason, we believe that member states can and should be able to intervene by banning gmos, also because of the environmental and health risks that their cultivation and use pose.
health protection, consumer protection and the promotion of local products are some of the principles on which europe bases its sustainability model: today we are making a concrete and important gesture to strengthen europe as a place of quality and food security.
the agreement in question, in combination with other development support instruments such as the european development fund, should promote the sustainable development of são tomé and príncipe's fisheries sector, as well as related industries and activities.
the agreement aims to promote and strengthen cooperation between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe, so as to contribute to a genuine and sustainable recovery of são tomé and príncipe's fisheries sector and related industries and activities.
we support the conclusion of this protocol, but consider it essential that the agreement in question be implemented through the use of other specific support instruments, such as the european development fund, so that it can contribute to a genuine and sustainable recovery of são tomé and príncipe's fisheries sector and its related industries and activities.
the conclusion of the agreement, together with other instruments, contributes to the enhancement of the development of são tomé and príncipe's fisheries and related activities, allowing for the sustainable exploitation of its natural resources.
the payment of the financial contribution by the european union will certainly represent significant aid to the republic of são tomé and príncipe in order to encourage a more responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and to strengthen the surveillance, control and fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
i voted in favour of the draft decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles because, after the territory of mayotte has acquired the status of an outermost region of the european union, the agreement reached between the european commission and seychelles, our main partner in the sustainable tuna fishery in the indian ocean, is beneficial for both parties.
the agreement provides for eight tuna-fishing vessels with gillnets and two support vessels flying the flag of seychelles to have access to the 24- to 100-mile zone for a renewable period of six years.
the eu-republic of seychelles fisheries relations are governed by a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfp).
although we do not have specific powers to amend the agreement, we would like to stress today the need to involve mayotte's fishermen in the meetings of the joint committee set up by this agreement and to ensure their participation in all stages of its implementation, as well as to provide for structural investment and administrative control frameworks to promote the sustainable development of the fishing and processing sectors on the island.
whereas the relations between the european union and the republic of seychelles in the fisheries sector are governed by a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfp); whereas the agreement in question concerns access for vessels flying the flag of seychelles to the waters and marine biological resources of mayotte, the territory of which has acquired the status of an outermost region of the european union; i am therefore voting in favour of this agreement, since it allows vessels flying the flag of seychelles to fish for highly migratory species in compliance with the rules of the indian ocean tuna commission (iotc).
fisheries relations between the eu and the republic of seychelles are governed by the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfpa) which entered into force in 2003 and has been renewed twice.
the consultation of the economic and social committee is a step forward in the stabilisation of the european strategy for more sustainable mobility to ensure compliance with the union's obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the european commission's white paper on transport presents the eu's roadmap towards a single european area with reference to competitiveness and sustainability.
the white paper published in 2011 sets ten targets to achieve the 60% greenhouse gas emissions reduction target.
it has aspects which can be shared, such as the gradual abandonment of cars powered by traditional fuels until they are completely phased out, the use of means of transport with a lower environmental impact, and the improvement of passenger safety.
it was decided to prepare an own-initiative report to assess the implementation of the white paper on transport with regard to detection and pathways to sustainable mobility.
the opinions of the economic and social committee on the report of the ini implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: surveys and pathways to sustainable mobility will subsequently be examined by the tran committee, of which i am a member, as the committee responsible for the subject.
an additional opinion that also looks at the strictly economic aspects of such an important issue as sustainable mobility can only be of benefit to all european citizens.
- in 2011, the commission adopted the white paper on transport, with the aim of outlining a competitive system that can increase mobility, remove the main obstacles in urban areas and foster growth and jobs, while ensuring sustainability.
among the various ambitious targets, there was also the reduction of both europe's dependence on oil imports and carbon emissions from transport (a reduction expected to reach 60% by 2050), as well as the withdrawal of traditional fuel cars from the city market by 2050, and the switch, by 2050, of more than 50% of goods from road transport to alternative, efficient and green means.
the text voted today comes after three years of negotiations: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
states are given a free choice based not only on the assessment of environmental risk and the effects of crops on the health of citizens, but also on consideration of socioeconomic impact and agricultural policy considerations.
i believe that it is essential to have applied the principle of subsidiarity to such a sensitive issue as environmental safety and security.
the latter will not be able to use specific national environmental impacts in the grounds for calls which do not give the same result as the environmental impact conducted by efsa (european food safety authority).
member states will have the possibility to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their national territory for reasons other than those relating to the environmental risk identified by efsa.
the danger today is that behind this supposed freedom there is a ruse which in fact makes it possible to 'break the dam' of their entry into the community territory, to the detriment of biodiversity and europe's rich varietal heritage.
under the previous rule, member states could veto gmo crops, invoking health and environmental safeguards, without being regularly dragged before the court of justice of the european union.
i think that on other points, such as the environmental reasons which member states can invoke to prohibit the cultivation of gmos, a stronger and more ambitious text could have been adopted.
i voted against the final text on the agreement reached on gmo cultivation, because the only elements added by parliament were the obligation to draw up coexistence plans, but, as we also suggested, limited to countries where gmo cultivation takes place, the possibility of banning groups of gmos and a list of conditions on the basis of which national bans can be established, which does not contain any reference to possible environmental impacts.
each country will therefore be free to decide - without providing further reasons - to ban gmo crops also for reasons that go beyond the scientific assessments already under the responsibility of efsa: i refer in particular to the possibility of invoking agricultural and environmental policy objectives, land use and urban planning reasons, and the possible socioeconomic and public policy impact.
the proposal to amend the directive is another example of the liberal culture which, in defiance of the protection of the environment and the health of citizens, does not want to accept any real regulation that limits or prevents the cultivation of gmos with objective criteria and public authorisation and control instruments.
in the immediate future, therefore, italy may decide to say no to gm crops on its territory as a result of socioeconomic considerations, land use, land planning, transgenic contamination of other crops, and mere agricultural and environmental policy choices.
this choice can be made on the basis of strict criteria, not in conflict with the health and environmental risk assessment carried out by efsa, thus protecting the needs of citizens, consumers and individual states.
i therefore ask you to open your eyes and put the health of citizens and the protection of businesses that ensure environmentally sustainable agriculture at the top of your agenda.
these new rules provide for greater discretion for member states to restrict or prohibit gmos on their territory for reasons other than those arising from efsa's scientific assessments, such as environmental reasons such as the protection of biodiversity or the conservation of habitats and ecosystems.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
whereas on 23 july the 28 environment ministers adopted the council's position on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory; whereas the proposal is to amend directive 2001/18/ec on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms by inserting a new article extending the rights of member states to justify legally a national or regional ban on the cultivation of a gmo; i am therefore in favour of the amendment, since the main objective of this amendment to the legislative framework is to give greater flexibility and legal certainty to member states wishing to ban the cultivation of gmos authorised at european level in all or part of their territory.
it is important that the placing on the market of gmos is only allowed after an authorisation has been granted on the basis of a scientific assessment of the risks to human and animal health and the environment even if imports of gmos for animal feed do not fall within the scope of this regulation.
finally, there are no compensation mechanisms for any environmental damage caused by gm crops.
no new environmental/health reasons other than those already accepted by efsa may be put forward to justify the prohibition.
i voted in favour of the proposal which contains technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm area.
advanced technical measures for sustainable exploitation are shared.
at its annual meetings in 2011 and 2012, the gfcm adopted measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral in its area of competence, for the mitigation of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, for the protection of sharks and rays, and for the fishery of small pelagic fish in the adriatic sea.
i agree with the need to look for sustainable ways of exploiting marine resources, combining the (always existing) opportunity to make a living from them with the obligation to introduce rules that also allow future generations to continue to reap the dividend of this incredible resource, perhaps combining fishing with tourism and the study of what we do not yet know.
i voted in favour of the legislative resolution amending regulation 1343/2011 because it aims to ensure the sustainable exploitation of red coral and to protect certain marine species from fishing activities which, without the necessary regulation, end up damaging the marine ecosystem.
with particular reference to the latter aspect, the proposal for a regulation under consideration aims to ensure the sustainable use of marine resources through an ecosystem approach to the management of human activities, i.e.
at its annual meetings in 2011 and 2012, the gfcm adopted measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of by-catch of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, the protection of sharks and rays, and the fishery for small pelagic fish in the adriatic sea.
i voted in favour of this proposal to transpose into eu law measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, thus amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011, because i cannot deny the general good sense of the purpose and some of the provisions contained herein; i would like to stress, however, that as is often the case, many of the individual acceding states have already transposed the measures expressed by the gfcm and will therefore now be forced to ask for a derogation from the european commission whose present proposal in fact ignores the law already in use in the individual states which is often better in terms of protection and care for the environment.
i am also concerned about the risk that a delicate species such as red coral may be subjected to treatments which, according to the text thus approved, are not environmentally sustainable.
these measures, which are very important for our sea, concern the sustainable exploitation of red coral and the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and whales.
we need these provisions to protect and carefully manage the fragile mediterranean ecosystem.
i voted in favour of the proposal which contains technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm area.
biodiversity has to be protected.
the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean is a regional organisation which promotes the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in both the mediterranean and the black sea.
the proposal contains a framework of important initiatives and regulations aimed at transposing into eu law the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean on the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of bycatch of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays.
we have today approved this proposal which aims to transpose into eu law the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean on the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of bycatch of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays.
whereas the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is intended to incorporate the measures contained in the recommendations of the gfcm; i therefore support the proposal, as it contains technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the area covered by the gfcm agreement, and as it also transposes into union law a number of measures applicable to the fisheries of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
over the years, as is normal, its responsibilities have evolved, and in recent sessions the gfcm has adopted important measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral in its area of competence, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm agreement area.
- i decided to vote in favour of this report because it updates the commission proposal which contains technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the area where the gfcm agreement applies.
the experience gained in some territories in the suppression of such phenomena must be shared in a climate of mutual trust and close cooperation between the police authorities and the european judiciary.
there is also a lot to do on the environmental side.
the european union has decided to put the brakes on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and building a greener and more resource-efficient economy.
what credibility can we have in asking other countries, especially developing countries, to do more to combat global warming?
we are doing a lot for sustainable fishing, but if the drills are polluting and destroying the mediterranean, what is europe doing?
ensure that development and employment are really at the heart of the semester and within a framework which respects the environment and resources, as well as the specific characteristics of individual states: the commission has also proposed that the member states should take the necessary measures to ensure that the
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris massacre has struck at the heart of europe and its citizens: our freedom, our values, our civilization have come under the gun of islamic fundamentalism, and none of us feels safe anymore.
here, apart from the work that the european union can do, there is a lot that the council of europe and the venice commission can do to assist in judicial reform, energy sector reform, electoral reform and reform of the business climate.
again, meeting with our 28 member states’ ambassadors to ukraine, i was impressed by the common indication from all 28 ambassadors in kiev that, on the one hand, they supported financial assistance but, on the other, that they recognised the need to create a business environment that enables private investment to continue, or to return to ukraine, in an effective way.
our common, agreed and shared position in the european union is precious, and that is the need to work for a solution to the conflict in the east of the country – a sustainable solution that respects sovereignty and the territorial integrity of ukraine.
when it comes to other forms of dialogue, for example at technical level – think of the efforts the european union has made on facilitating an energy agreement between the russian federation and ukraine – or in relation to other elements, we need to review where we are, at what stage we are on different aspects, and what can be used in positive or negative terms to try to influence, in the best possible way, a change in russian behaviour on ukraine.
for the ukrainians, who risk economic suicide, and for us, who have never developed a real alternative energy policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this will be a crucial year for development policy: we have just inaugurated the european year of development in riga and there will be many important events, as you have already mentioned, the one in paris, the one in addis ababa, the expo in milan, which must be a european event that must lead to a great reflection on the issues of world hunger and food waste, but above all there will be the expiry of the millennium goals and the definition of the new sustainable development goals which will be, as i mentioned earlier, finally universal, finally valid for everyone and therefore also for us.
i believe that the issue of inequality is the biggest issue of our time and it's crucial to building a future that is truly sustainable for the new generations.
citizens' trust in the institutions is essential in the difficult economic environment, so i welcome the new strategy towards 2019 with the proposal of impact and relevance and visibility surveys and i share the desire to see the ombudsman as the guardian of the union's transparency.
at the same time, ukraine must demonstrate commitment to the reform plan: fiscal consolidation, continuation of banking and energy sector reforms, fight against corruption, transparency and judicial reform.
the association agreement with the european union was signed in too much haste, putting all ukrainians in the crossfire of economic and territorial interests of the two sides and creating a rift between the european union and russia, although the former lacks a safe and credible energy strategy alternative to the import of hydrocarbons from the russian federation.
the acts of terrorism, the intimidation, the flow of arms, the blackmailing of energy must stop.
on the environment, the resolution underlined the need to develop major legislative proposals for the implementation of the 2030 climate and energy package and also stressed that proposals on the circular economy must continue to be a priority on the commission's agenda.
i particularly appreciated the reference in the document to the need for the european commission to reduce the number of proposals submitted, with the aim of making the legislative work as rational as possible, as well as the reference to the need to promote the rapid and full implementation of existing legislation in key areas such as the single market, environmental law, the financial and banking sectors, the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and cohesion policy.
we also call on the commission to work towards a balanced trade agreement with the usa, capable of promoting growth and employment, while safeguarding eu standards in the health, social and environmental fields.
whereas the commission's proposal entitled 'commission work programme 2015 a new start' also draws on the conclusions of the european council of 26-27 june 2014 and 18 december 2014, whereas eu policy and action, conducted in concert with member states in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, can and must have an effective impact in helping citizens anticipate and respond to rapid changes in society, whereas europe must commit itself to a model of social market economy that ensures sustainable growth in order to secure future generations of jobs instead of debt, for these reasons i vote in favour.
it is also essential that existing legislation is fully implemented in areas such as the single market, environmental law, the financial and banking sectors, as well as the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and cohesion policy.
i believe that the circular economy must remain an integral part of european policies as the only viable way to make human development and prosperity coexist in the long term with a planet that presents: (a) non-renewable resources with physical limits (metals, minerals, rare earths, arable land); b) ecosystems whose equilibrium is threatened (biodiversity, climate); (c) renewable resources with very long cycles and regeneration times (water, forests, soil fertility, fish stocks) or entire geological ages (oil, gas).
the withdrawal of the circular economy package and the questioning of the air quality package in the new commission's programme proposal are a bad sign of the reversal of european policies in the field of environmental and climate protection, human health and ecosystems.
the second concerns the type of projects to be carried out, which, if not carefully examined and selected on the basis of strategic objectives, positive employment and environmental effects and maximum transparency, will turn out to be the next major infrastructure projects that feed organized crime and the interests of large groups and multinationals.
we need an ambitious agenda on many priorities that have been left behind for too long: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
the new investment plan launched at the end of 2014 by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, foresees the mobilisation of eur 315 billion in new investments between 2015 and 2017. we should welcome the commission's announced willingness to support above all strategic areas such as energy networks, broadband and climate policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris agreement could be the most comprehensive agreement ever reached in terms of the issues covered and the number of countries committing to reduce emissions.
we really hope that this time there will be a decisive turning point for a global climate agreement.
we must get and demand a binding treaty that commits all countries to reduce emissions in line with the objective of keeping the global temperature rise to within 2 degrees.
we wanted to convince all the parties involved of the need to invest in an ambitious climate policy, in order to protect the environment and at the same time create jobs by encouraging the development of new technologies.
the general objective we are setting ourselves today is to strengthen and engage the entire international community in sustainable development, because i strongly believe that there can be no real growth unless it is sustainable.
i would also like to stress the importance of financing in this area: to recall the commitment of the eu and its member states to progressively increase the mobilisation of climate finance, which is essential for investing in research and sustainable development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is an illusion to think that if we are less ambitious, if we lower our environmental standards, we will be the most competitive in the world.
we must anticipate its entry into force, put back-loading in reserve and overcome the current distortions of the european internal market in support of energy-intensive industries.
first, with the measures in place, it will be very difficult for the reduction of emissions by 2020 to ensure that the temperature increase below 2°c is contained by 2100. unlike the kyoto protocol, however, it is up to individual countries to indicate their contribution to the overall reduction of emissions, while the scrutiny of measures has been reduced to a simple summary of national measures prepared by the secretariat, and there is still no agreed date by which the contracting parties commit themselves to achieving the reduction targets.
the distribution of reduction efforts and technical and financial assistance are still to be defined, obstacles which, if not removed before the next paris agreement, risk on their own to bring the negotiations to a standstill, as was already the case in copenhagen in 2009. however, in conclusion, in the final document, one of the options is ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest scientific research has shown that if we really want to achieve the objective of limiting global warming to 2°c, a third of the oil reserves, half of the current gas reserves and over 80% of the coal reserves should remain underground until 2050. yet, as we discuss these objectives, we in the acp delegation approve a resolution which makes agreements for the exploitation of gas, oil and coal in africa.
the lima conference last december was intended to lay the groundwork for a new international climate agreement to be implemented by 2020. unfortunately, many of the knots to be untied are actually preventing the negotiations from proceeding in a more concrete sense and undermining the chances that the new treaty will contain truly binding commitments for those more industrialized nations.
we therefore hope that, in order to give substance to international agreements, each member state will make a strong commitment and we will ensure that the commission respects its priorities in its programme, especially in the part where it says that it wants to make the union 'the world's number one in the field of renewable energy and the fight against global warming'.
citizens must be able to trust the digital environment to take full advantage of new opportunities, such as e-commerce and the many services that the network can offer.
i hope that this parliament will maintain a position within the internet governance forum and that this place, this web governance environment will maintain its role over time.
mrs willmott has explained this very well before, for environmental reasons for example.
i therefore believe that where there are these problems and these cost overruns, it is one thing to say that we are abandoning mandatory labelling, but quite another to say that we are envisaging simplification solutions which are in line with the sustainability of the system.
we now welcome the fact that the committee on the environment has moved to push the commission towards more transparent labelling systems.
we shall therefore, certainly in a more rapid manner, pursue the objective of making it possible for young people to acquire new skills in training courses which are increasingly geared to the needs of the business system, the business system which has accepted the challenge of innovation and which today contributes to a climate of cautious optimism linked to the first signs of recovery, at least in my country.
on the other hand, these instruments must be directed towards a truly sustainable model of managing the economy, investing in the highest level of consultation and participation of workers and trade unions at all stages.
the unrwa is the only element of stability in a highly precarious political and security environment.
europe does not want to be held hostage to a climate of tension, it does not give in to the blackmail of those who trade freedom for a little apparent security.
on the one hand, it is clear that debts must be paid and aid cannot be unconditional, but to ask for a primary surplus of 4.5% in a country with 26% unemployment is economically unreasonable and puts the sustainability of the debt at risk and should therefore be a matter of concern to creditors first and foremost.
the convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, signed at the hague on 25 october 1980, introduced a system allowing contracting states to cooperate with a view to finding sustainable solutions to international child abduction.
the hague convention of 25 october 1980 introduces a system which allows contracting states to cooperate with the aim of finding sustainable solutions to the issue of international child abduction.
i do not share the views expressed in the nicolai report on the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal.
we welcome the approval of this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of senegal, as it is a balanced and fair act that favours european and senegalese interests in line with the development cooperation policies pursued so far.
this partnership is intended to strengthen cooperation between the european union and senegal in the spirit of solidarity and aid to developing third countries, with a view to promoting a sustainable fisheries policy and the rational exploitation of fishery resources.
after careful consideration, i voted today in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the eu-senegal sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, giving my approval to its conclusion, given that the new agreement is in the interests of both parties and improves best practice in the sector, with benefits also for the sustainability of fisheries.
i also agree with the questions raised about the need for forecasts to facilitate a reasonable economic understanding, real sustainability of fisheries and adequate support for the local fisheries sector.
this recommendation for the renewal of the sustainable fisheries partnership allows local fishermen to increase economic activity in the senegalese maritime area and allows the use of the satellite vessel monitoring system for another five years, thus improving the fight against illegal fishing.
i voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of senegal to create a new framework for cooperation between the parties.
i voted in favour of the draft council decision and its implementing protocol on the conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal.
the agreement also creates new jobs for citizens of both partners, promotes a sustainable fisheries policy and provides for specific measures to step up the fight against illegal fishing.
i voted in favour of this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal and the implementation protocol thereto.
taking into account the opportunities for the senegalese economy to prosper through better exploitation of available stocks, in accordance with the principles of sustainable fisheries and best practices in the sector, the new agreement and protocol are in the interests of both parties.
the new sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of senegal will serve the interests of both parties involved.
i believe that this is a balanced agreement, which continues the fruitful relationship between europe and the african country and which takes account of many considerations of social and environmental sustainability, as the committee on development of the european parliament has also stressed.
the agreement will promote a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in senegal's fishing zones, in the interests of both parties.
in this context, the council authorised the european commission to renegotiate the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with the african country for a period of five years.
it will also promote a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in senegal's fishing zones, in the interests of both parties.
we believe that the new partnership agreement between the european union and senegal is a great opportunity because, by promoting the interests of both parties, it represents a valuable instrument to support an increasingly sustainable fisheries and the development and use of best practices in the sector.
there are opportunities for the senegalese economy to thrive through better exploitation of available stocks, in accordance with the principles of sustainable fishing and best practices in the sector.
i hope that this agreement will lead to a fair understanding that will help the country to develop and that, at the same time, attention will be paid to the conservation and sustainable exploitation of existing fish stocks.
there are real development opportunities for the local senegalese fisheries sector, which, in partnership with eu vessels, will have the opportunity both to exploit available stocks in a better and more sustainable way and to supply the european market with quality fishery products.
europe is today facing a very fragmented environment, and we must therefore make every effort at national, european and international level to ensure that these rights are extended to the fullest.
the internet is a complex and revolutionary ecosystem today, which has brought many changes to the everyday lives of citizens, revolutionizing the way we communicate and exchange information, and profoundly affecting the social, political and economic sectors, thus making the labour market more efficient and improving the supply of goods and services.
with its potential to promote sustainable social and economic development, the internet has thus far enabled a continuous exchange of knowledge and constantly updated information, but above all it has promoted virtuous mechanisms of transparency and good governance that often clash with the will of some states to control, censor and monitor the web and its users, as well as citizens.
in adopting the resolution, the european parliament called on member states, the commission and all stakeholders to further strengthen the sustainability of the multi-stakeholder model by making stakeholders more accountable at national, regional and international level.
it is essential to reiterate the legal protection of net neutrality, which is an indispensable prerequisite for safeguarding freedom of information and expression, and for stimulating, inter alia, the sustainable sharing of the common good and fostering greater participation of citizens in decision-making.
we will continue to have to deal with security and privacy issues very carefully, so as to guarantee complete freedom of expression and information, in an environment that protects personal data from any misuse.
furthermore, the work of the internet governance forum must be directed towards a network that is as open and independent as possible, a shared resource available to all, including in the context of digital rights, development and sustainable economic recovery.
the need to know the origins of what we eat is a priority for all of us european citizens, because the safeguarding of our health and the freedom to choose as consumers are inalienable rights at the heart of all the health and environmental measures we have adopted here.
this is a statement which makes europe take another important step forward in the protection of consumers, quality and the environment.
i voted in favour of the report on the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, considering that the agreement between the members of the acp group of states and the eu is based on the objective of reducing and ultimately eliminating poverty and that cooperation also contributes to sustainable economic development, which is the foundation for lasting peace and security, and to the democratic and political stability of the acp countries.
i am pleased that this house continues to provide a framework for an open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue between members from different parts of the world on very broad and relevant subjects such as development cooperation, migration, human rights, the fight against climate change, etc.
we believe that transparent and accountable governance is now an integral part of sustainable development.
the cotonou agreement between the members of the acp group of states and the eu is based on the objective of reducing and ultimately eliminating poverty and cooperation should also contribute to sustainable economic development, which is the foundation for lasting peace and security, as well as to the democratic and political stability of the acp countries.
based on the principles of respect for fundamental freedoms and respect for all human rights, it succeeds in promoting and monitoring economic and social developments in the countries concerned, defending democracy and pushing towards transparent governance, with the aim of sustainable development, with a focus on regional and subregional cooperation.
we propose to open the market for generic medicines and biosimilars once and for all, which are as effective as the originals but cost much less and are therefore much more sustainable for the health systems of all the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that the energy union is right and necessary, but if we look at the major projects being planned to solve new problems, we are reiterating the solutions of fifty years ago in a geopolitical and geological context that has changed substantially.
we are talking about an energy union built only on macro-connections between nations and only on the ability to reverse macro-flows.
it doesn't matter what form of energy is flowing through it.
it is not a matter of whether there may not be as many suppliers outside the eu who are able or willing to give everyone the energy they need tomorrow.
it does not matter if even today adjacent apartments are not made to exchange energy independently of monopolies.
for the times in which we live and will live, we consider appropriate another form of energy union where the indigenous generation and diffused food sources flow inverted compared to the past from individual houses and power stations to the large connectors necessary is true, but to calm the intermittency of renewables of local seasonal and circadian variations in climate and light between distant areas.
we are the first in the world to achieve the renewable energy union, the democratic energy internet.
let us free ourselves forever from the slavery of imports, from the devastation of climate and ecosystems, from wars, from political dependence.
there are two points of great value in this proposal: the first is precisely about energy and a task of greater integration.
if we are preparing for major trade agreements with developed parts of the world, we know that we will either regulate our energy market better or we will have difficulties, not opportunities.
so one requirement: i like that this need is met by looking to the future and not the past, that is to say, to the issue of energy transition not as an imposition but as a way to create development and employment, hence courage and foresight.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have read the commission's document on the priorities for achieving the energy union and, to be honest, we have already stopped at the first page.
we have stopped at the point where we talk about a grand vision for a sustainable, fossil-free and decarbonised energy union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president šefčovič, the debate on the energy union is a very welcome one.
today a colleague of mine in the european people's party made a very effective statement, saying that we should not talk about energy union because it already exists and it is called the european union.
we produce energy in 28 different ways, and we circulate it with difficulty because we have very weak interconnection systems.
so perhaps the problem is not so much to identify the enemy - because of our lack of energy independence which costs us a billion euros a day - the problem is to identify a common strategy.
the common strategy sees energy as a tool for development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european energy union was and is a necessity for the european union and is the only way to ensure energy security and a reduction in dependence on imports of fossil fuels, but the energy union must be achieved immediately in order to foster a fully integrated energy market capable of stimulating energy efficiency, innovation in low-carbon and renewable technologies, energy saving and the strengthening of consumer rights, which should be able to benefit from lower energy tariffs.
the creation of the energy union must, however, be achieved through increased support for energy research.
only increased investment in research can lead to effective solutions, for example for electricity storage, the development of new generation renewable energy and ict management increasingly integrated with the energy system.
an energy transition in this sense is crucial to strengthening the technological leadership of the european union, but above all to respond to one of the most important challenges facing the member states, namely the creation of quality jobs and for young people.
so welcome a union that seeks to ensure affordability, reduce emissions and exploit our resources.
the communications adopted this morning by the commission and at the heart of the debate on the energy union we are having in parliament are of major strategic importance.
until now, energy policies have been the preserve of the member states with the resultant and obvious problems of dependence, dispersion and insufficient interconnection.
each step towards a single energy market strengthens security of supply and allows for a stronger common policy for the now indispensable energy transition to a low-carbon model.
a transition that benefits citizens, businesses and the environment.
it will be important to ensure that progress on energy efficiency remains central in the overall strategic framework, not only in transport and construction, but also in the generation phase.
the development of ambitious energy, industrial and environmental policies is perhaps the european union's main priority for action in the coming years.
the economic crisis requires us to move even more quickly and boldly towards high quality standards, inspired by the goals of innovation and sustainability.
that is why the s&d group welcomed with great satisfaction the two important votes which were carried out yesterday in the committee on the environment, on the market for the stability of emission reserves and the reform of biofuels.
these are crucial measures, which complete the policy and regulatory framework that the european commission's proposal for an energy union aims to define.
we hope, commissioner, that the member states' response will now be as far-sighted: i hope that the dialogue with the parliament which you have established in these first weeks of your mandate will lead to important reforms for the real economy and environmental sustainability.
of the objectives set for this legislature, the achievement of the energy union is both one of the most complex and one of the most necessary.
this objective includes many other objectives such as energy security and efficiency and the development of alternative sources, and it is also a very powerful tool for realising the enormous potential of the single market.
in particular, given the recent geopolitical instability, it is becoming more and more important to ensure independence from costly energy imports on the one hand and to invest in energy efficiency to avoid waste on the other.
either the energy union is implemented with this broad perspective or it will hardly be able to produce the desired results.
we will continue our discussion on the european economy and, of course, we will also focus on an issue that is as close to my own heart as it is to many in this parliament, that is, the urgent need for a european energy union, as vice-president šefčovič has just outlined.
we discussed the european energy union at the council on 11 february.
we have launched, as i said, an energy union.
that is precisely the climate of uncertainty that must be resolved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me say frankly that the venezuelan crisis seems to me to be just one of the many chapters in the wider geopolitical and energy conflict we have been witnessing in recent months, no more or less than ukraine, unfortunately.
the article denounces the european commission's cover-up of the proposal prepared by the environment dg in 2013 that would have led to the development of criteria for classifying a substance as an endocrine disruptor, thus launching a new strategy on the subject.
with this proposal, the environment dg, pursuant to article 5 of the european union regulation concerning the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, obliged the commission to define the criteria for the identification of substances with endocrine disrupting properties by 13 december 2013. however, following external pressure, but also from other commission directorates-general, the environment dg's proposal seems to have been blocked and replaced by an impact assessment, which unfortunately will not be finalised before 2016, a measure which therefore appears instrumentally to circumvent the obligation to submit criteria.
i believe that, pending the development of the criteria, guidelines at european level should be developed as soon as possible to deal with this silent pollution, which is too little considered by public opinion and citizens, who currently do not have sufficient information to protect their health.
that is why we in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety have decided to support sweden, which has sued the european union for circumventing this ban, which has had a certain impact on the fertility of so many young people.
the european environment agency, in its latest report, highlighted that the current level of exposure to endocrine disruptors is one of the quality indicators with a negative trend.
from the e-mail exchanges between the highest-level officials of the european commission, published in the guardian newspaper at the beginning of february, it is clear that the commission has delayed the application of the criteria identified by the environment dg for the issuing of the appropriate delegated acts.
investments in long-term activities should also play a key role in promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
infrastructure, transport and sustainable energy are the main areas we have decided to focus on during our work on eltifs: the long-term european investment funds.
unfortunately, with this further prestige play, the profit-oriented investments in public services, such as water and waste management infrastructure, or roads, schools and hospitals, are being let through the window, but without making too much noise.
i believe that we have reached this point because of the short-sighted european climate policy, which has pushed the sector to the extreme, without taking into account the long-term effects and the foreseeable collapse in the prices of this technology.
‒ i voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to provide additional support for the workers of a german company active in the solar energy sector.
this is one of the effects of the eu's climate policy-fuelled photovoltaic bubble bursting.
the claim made by aleo solar (a german company operating in the solar energy sector which was put into liquidation) is also due to the strong competition from chinese production.
i abstained because, while i sympathize with those who have lost their jobs, i believe that the situation of these people is largely dependent not on the market but on the wrong eu energy policies.
as this is a central sector for the implementation of the european strategy for sustainable growth, i believe, however, that the problem of protecting and reviving the solar panel sector must be tackled above all in the context of more strategic and coordinated programmes.
the challenge facing the steel industry is very ambitious, since it must combine the protection of workers from the risks associated with pollution on the one hand and european firms from competition which is leaving them behind on the world scene and the general fall in demand for steel due to the general reduction in investment on the other.
europe must therefore set out a roadmap to put the steel industry back at the centre of industrial policies and transform it into a sustainable and profitable sector.
the effects of these changes in the pattern of trade were compounded by other factors such as the decreasing demand for steel in the eu automotive and construction sectors as a result of the economic crisis and a related increase in production costs (raw materials, energy, environmental constraints, etc.).
‒ this mobilisation of the egf is the second one authorised on the same days for former steel workers central to the economy of the liège region , which is a further sign of the crisis in the sector and the need for joint action at union level (already initiated with the implementation of the commission communication of 11 june 2013 entitled 'action plan for a competitive and sustainable european steel industry').
we must be aware of the temporary nature of the measures offered by the egf and of course find other answers to achieve sustainable growth in the european union.
the challenge facing the steel industry is very ambitious, since it must combine the protection of workers from pollution risks on the one hand and of european enterprises from competition which is leaving them behind in the world market and from the general fall in demand for steel due to the general reduction in investment.
europe must therefore set out a roadmap to put the steel industry back at the centre of industrial policies and transform it into a sustainable and profitable sector.
the effects of these changes in trade flows were compounded by other factors such as the decreasing demand for steel in the eu automotive and construction sectors as a result of the economic crisis and a related increase in production costs (raw materials, energy, environmental constraints, etc.).
the sector has suffered a sharp fall in market share at european level, due to major structural changes in international trade, aggravated by the impact of the economic crisis and the increase in energy costs.
‒ as has been reiterated, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support to workers in companies suffering from the adverse economic climate and major structural changes in world trade, especially in this phase of severe generalised crisis.
the contribution of eur 1.2 million is intended to facilitate the retraining and reintegration of workers, including in new business sectors, in a region, charleroi, characterised by a difficult working environment due to its dependence on industrial employment.
engineering and technology allow us to put vehicles on the road with better visibility for the driver, with shapes that improve impact in the event of collisions and technologies that reduce co2 emissions, among other things.
‒ today i voted in favour of the revised directive on the dimensions and weights of road vehicles which would allow manufacturers to introduce new truck designs, which could exceed the current maximum length and weight limits for heavy duty vehicles in order to improve overall safety and environmental performance.
the addition of aerodynamic fins at the rear would also help to reduce emissions and fuel consumption.
i believe that the objectives of improving road safety, energy efficiency and environmental performance of this specific transport sector are fully acceptable.
the addition of aerodynamic accessories would help to reduce consumption and harmful gas emissions, thus protecting the air and the environment.
the addition of aerodynamic accessories would also help to reduce consumption and harmful gas emissions, thus protecting the air and the environment.
in addition, it should be stressed that improving intermodality at european level will make it possible to shorten journey times and, consequently, reduce co2 emissions, bringing closer the achievement of another valuable environmental protection objective for europe.
the improvements in the proposal concern vehicle aerodynamics, energy efficiency and road safety.
given the target set in the 2011 white paper to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, i am voting in favour of the proposal to revise directive 96/53/ec on the weights and dimensions of motor vehicles to limit their energy consumption, in the light of new technologies and current road safety needs.
to this end, i also consider it important that the directive, in accordance with the guidelines contained in the document 'towards a european road safety area 2011-2020' and in line with the sustainability objectives set out in the horizon 2020 programme, be open to certain derogations aimed at three main objectives: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation.
‒ the adoption of this directive will allow manufacturers to introduce new truck designs, which could exceed the current maximum length and weight limits for heavy-duty vehicles in order to improve overall safety and environmental performance.
in particular, the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the consumption of petroleum products has become crucial in the transport sector.
for the reasons mentioned above, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the leichtfried report which stresses that a revision of the directive is necessary as improving the efficiency and environmental performance of road transport is an essential objective of the common transport policy.
‒ having regard to the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improve road safety, adapt the relevant legislation to technological developments and changing market needs and facilitate intermodal transport operations, while ensuring undistorted competition and protecting road infrastructure; technological developments offer the possibility of installing retractable or folding aerodynamic devices at the rear end of vehicles; i am therefore in favour of the proposal that this directive provides for derogations from the maximum authorized dimensions and weights of vehicles and combinations of vehicles laid down in directive 96/53/ec.
‒ i believe that the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles by adapting existing legislation to the continuing technological developments in the sector and to a constantly changing market is a key objective, not forgetting to give priority to road safety.
for these reasons, i welcome this directive from the european parliament which amends the maximum lengths of vehicles to give priority to new aerodynamic devices which allow for considerable advantages in the energy performance of vehicles.
the aim of the report is to improve the aerodynamic aspects of commercial vehicles and their energy efficiency, thereby improving road safety and the environment.
at present, 26% of co2 emissions from european road transport are from this type of heavy-duty vehicle, and further expansion of this type of vehicle would have dangerous effects on pollution.
furthermore, i believe it is very important that these funds are framed in the context of the europe 2020 strategy to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ i voted in favour of this measure, having analysed that long-term financing is a key enabling tool to put the european economy on a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, and of high employment and competitiveness by proposing a less risk-prone economy.
although presented as a long-term financing instrument to support the real economy, eltifs are nevertheless authorised to invest in non-productive real assets such as real estate, ships and aircraft as well as in public infrastructure, including transport infrastructure such as roads, airports, public transport, but also energy, water or waste management, industrial plants, public buildings.
‒ i strongly supported the report on the european long-term investment funds (eltifs) to help finance smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to finance the needs of the infrastructure project in europe until 2020, because i believe that the eu needs innovative financial instruments that foster growth and quality jobs at this time, in order to put an end to the precariousness of entire generations in recent times.
i believe that the european union must steer its economy towards a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in order to foster employment and competitiveness.
‒ the european union should work more effectively to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which promotes employment and competitiveness.
‒ we support this proposal for a regulation, as we believe that long-term financing is a key enabling tool to put the european economy on a path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as envisaged by the europe 2020 strategy.
long-term financing is a key enabler to put the european economy on a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, and of high employment and competitiveness, to give the economy of the future a structure that is less exposed to systemic risks and more resilient.
‒ whereas long-term financing is a key enabler for putting the european economy on a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, and of high employment and competitiveness, to give the economy of the future a structure that is less exposed to systemic risks and more resilient.
‒ i believe that long-term financing is an important tool to stimulate investment and help the european economy to grow in a systematic, sustainable and inclusive way, while at the same time fostering more employment and stronger competitiveness.
the europe 2020 strategy aims to create a sustainable and inclusive smart economy, and this can only be achieved through policies that deliver true equality between men and women.
‒ equality between men and women is a fundamental right, a common value of the european union and a necessary condition for achieving the european objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
genuine equality in working life is therefore the precondition for a return to growth after a period of austerity, revitalising europe to become a truly smart, sustainable and inclusive economy.
the digital single market, energy, finance, industry and transport are all important issues in the coming years.
among the crucial sectors for the development of the european economic model, i would mention energy and digital: in both cases, effective competition can make a difference in making possible projects already on the table at european level.
in the energy sector, by encouraging objectives that ensure sustainability and security of supply and that support a fair and competitive market, including through diversification of sources and the fight against monopolistic practices.
moreover, competition is crucial for the achievement of the objectives of employment, growth, investment and overall competitiveness of the european economy, as it is sustainable and effective competition that promotes investment and brings benefits to end-users, while also providing a boost to the economy.
the commission has also made specific reference to the competition policies needed in the energy and transport sectors, and there are no controversial points to be made here either.
only through dynamism, innovation and sustainability can economic growth be stimulated and the degree of competitiveness of our market be able to withstand global comparison.
whereas competition policy is itself an instrument for safeguarding european democracy; whereas a competition policy based on a level playing field in all sectors is the foundation of the european social market economy and an essential tool for ensuring the proper functioning of a dynamic, efficient, sustainable and innovative internal market, and whereas the economic and financial crisis should therefore not be used as a pretext for relaxing the application of competition rules; i would therefore vote in favour of the proposal, given that tax evasion, tax fraud and tax havens cost eu taxpayers an estimated eur 1 trillion a year in lost tax revenue.
the commission also makes specific reference to the competition policies needed in the energy and transport sectors.
of course, all of this is not enough: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
the cost to the real economy of these imbalances is no longer sustainable, as are the distortions of the single market.
‒ while not denying my concern about the continuing decline in the euro area inflation rate since 2011 and the differences in inflation rates between member states, i welcomed the ecb's swift reaction in the face of a highly critical environment such as the current one, and the fact that monetary policy has been geared to reducing the level of stress in the euro area financial markets and restoring investor confidence in the single currency.
all eu member states must commit to implementing appropriate structural reforms to restore a growth-friendly environment, safeguard price stability, promote sustainable social and economic progress and full employment, improve inclusion and optimise business conditions.
to achieve this, the european institutions must be more committed to promoting long-term investment in a social and environmental dimension.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a good one, but it is also a good one.
‒ in a rather critical economic environment, characterised by slow growth and persistent inflation, the ecb has been a promoter of monetary and fiscal policies and structural reforms.
‒ by adopting this annual report, we want to underline the importance of the ecb's rapid reaction in the face of an increasingly unstable and fragmented economic and financial environment.
finally, we urge the member states to create the conditions for a recovery in both public and private investment by implementing appropriate structural reforms to restore a business-friendly environment.
in the face of this critical environment, the ecb has reacted swiftly, not only through a monetary policy aimed at reducing the level of stress in financial markets and restoring investor confidence, but also by implementing innovative instruments to restart the economies of the member states, such as the recent quantitative easing operation.
the numerous measures taken, some of which were considered "unconventional" for a central bank, although they did not lead to the desired recovery, prevented the collapse of the continental banking system and helped to create a climate of confidence in international markets, with the resulting lowering of the financing costs for the peripheral euro area states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, and so on the environment, and so on the next.
the eib will have to be very careful that the projects in question do not finance infrastructure projects that are strongly desired by the lobbies: i am referring to gas storage, unsustainable works, which obviously cause environmental problems but which, in the event of any losses from programmes based on overly optimistic studies, end up burdening taxpayers, with the risk of having to return to private individuals the profits from very risky programmes.
and i want to reiterate here, also today in this house, that we cannot afford to waste a single euro of community resources on illegal and irregular behaviour.
i would like to stress two points on the environment.
on this project, in addition to the great environmental impact, great problems of lack of transparency and risk of corruption were raised.
at the same time, today, tuesday the 10th, in the coastal town of budva, there was a demonstration by environmental organizations against the decision to exploit marine hydrocarbons, just as has been happening for several months in croatia, because they could jeopardize the very strong tourist vocation of montenegro, croatia and us italians who are their neighbors on the other side of the adriatic.
so we absolutely agree with the doubts raised by the citizens of montenegro: yes to tourism, yes to protecting the ecosystem; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem.
but i think that a compromise is good when the environmental impact is minimised, because we must not forget that countries like croatia, italy and montenegro, because of their history and our culture, have an eminently tourist vocation which must be defended.
so, as i said earlier, it is absolutely important to develop renewable energy, we strongly believe in this energy model and we work together in a smart way and without hasty choices, in order to reduce environmental risk to the lowest possible level.
the next institutional visit scheduled for april will certainly give us the opportunity for an even more precise examination and will enable us to go into the issues raised concerning the environment and energy.
but surely greece's attitude has been a deeply hostile one and i believe that in 2015 we cannot waste time on these nomenclature issues.
the council will continue to monitor closely kosovo’s continued engagement towards visible and sustainable progress in the normalisation of relations with serbia.
now there's another part of the road to travel: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is essential to wage a decisive battle against corruption and organised crime and to implement a policy to combat unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, by implementing economic and structural reforms and sustainable development.
on the energy union, i agree with what president juncker and mrs kalniņa-lukaševica have said.
the energy union is a very important objective.
we must and can reduce our energy bills and our dependence on foreign energy imports.
it's about collectively reducing carbon emissions, and that seems to me to be a shared goal.
we must support this idea, we must support renewable energy and we must take account of certain situations where the industrial sector would suffer negative consequences, which must be remedied.
we welcome the news that the energy union will be the focus of the next european council meeting on 19 and 20 march.
in particular, it is necessary to create alternative sources by establishing a climate of trust and solidarity between member states and to invest heavily in the field of energy efficiency, which could have a beneficial side effect also in terms of increasing employment.
it is essential now that the european union mobilizes all its resources to resolve the situation described in those documents, especially as regards unemployment, which threatens the european social fabric, the sustainability of economic policy and the single currency and the sustainability of the european project itself.
only by linking economic governance directly to the real economy can the measures taken in recent months really help to achieve lasting and sustainable growth.
the report adopted by the imco committee points the way forward to make the internal market a tool for citizens, consumers, businesses and institutions in the common pursuit of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the institutions and the member states must therefore make the necessary effort to simplify the regulatory environment.
the objective of improving product quality, giving farmers confidence in future income prospects and encouraging more environmentally sustainable farming practices has long been a priority of the cap (common agricultural policy) and such a contribution increases the security of this market.
i therefore reiterate my vote in favour and call on the institutions and the member states to make the necessary effort to simplify the regulatory environment.
it is therefore essential to simplify and clarify the eu regulatory environment, so as to make it simpler, more stable and more predictable for businesses, workers and, above all, consumers, in order to avoid many provisions remaining 'missing'.
i would like to reiterate what i have said above and hope that all the institutions and the member states will make the necessary effort to simplify the regulatory environment.
‒ the new commission has set the overall objective of the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources for fisheries in the mediterranean.
a new way of thinking and living fisheries in the eu has been in place since 1 january 2014. the common fisheries policy has been reformed to ensure that marine resources are conserved and exploited in a sustainable way that is compatible with the protection of the ecosystem.
it enshrines and incorporates the principles on which the cfp is based, explicitly providing for the overall objective of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean to be the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources.
the gfcm's functions also include the objective of maximum sustainable yield, the reduction of discards at sea and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
‒ the new commission sets itself the general objective of the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of marine living resources for fisheries in the mediterranean, but will do so on the basis of community regulations which penalise our fisheries and which, in terms of control and sanctions, are not enforced by non-eu countries, causing differences in application and trade disadvantage.
‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean is a regional fisheries management organisation whose purpose is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
i voted in favour because i believe that the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine living resources in the mediterranean and the black sea are of paramount importance.
the conviction that marine ecosystems must be protected so that they can play an increasingly important role in the growth of the so-called blue areas, also identifying a sustainable growth and to be taken into account in view of my island background.
i am convinced that the conservation of marine resources living in the area of application, as well as the protection of marine ecosystems, play an important role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the acceptance by the european union of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), which aims to promote the conservation, development, common and rational management of fisheries and the optimum use of fishery resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
i support the overall objectives of the european union for the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of marine resources.
only through a more transparent fisheries policy, good governance and the cooperation of specialised bodies will it be possible to meet the demand from the european market while ensuring the protection of the ecosystem and intensifying the fight against illegal fishing.
‒ the gfcm is a so-called regional fisheries management organisation whose purpose is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
the objectives, general principles and functions of the gfcm have been revised and extended in order to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and their environment.
the measure tabled in plenary concerned the amendment of the statute of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) with the identification of a clearer general objective of biological and environmental sustainability of marine resources, the creation of fishing restriction zones, provisions for the establishment of sanctions in case of non-compliance by members/non-members and the creation of a dispute settlement mechanism in case of conflicts between contracting parties.
the new proposal, however, is a step forward, as it has the general objective of the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of marine living resources for fisheries in the mediterranean.
i therefore agree with the principles underlying the amendment of the agreement: the commission will also be proposing to improve and optimise the exploitation of the living marine resources of the mediterranean, to ensure careful protection of marine ecosystems, to draw up multiannual management plans for common fisheries, to set maximum sustainable yield targets and to provide for the possibility of applying sanctions where member states deviate from the new rules of the agreement.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation concerning the draft council decision on the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amended agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), because i am convinced of the need to adapt the 1952 agreement to the changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon, in order to modernise the structure of this commission and, above all, to strengthen its role in the conservation of resources in the mediterranean fishing areas, to extend its functions with a view to ensuring the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine resources and the marine living environment as a whole.
i welcomed the extension of the functions of the said commission to include the adoption of multiannual management plans applied in all sub-regions of the geographical area of competence (mediterranean sea and black sea), in accordance with ecosystem support to fisheries, to ensure the maintenance of stocks above levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield, in line with national plans, together with the establishment of fishing restricted areas to protect vulnerable ecosystems, including nurseries and breeding areas.
the rational management of marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea are among the european union's priorities for protecting the integrity of the marine heritage, and i therefore support mr mato's proposal.
the new agreement complements the basic elements of the common fisheries policy as regards: the objective of maximum sustainable yield, the ecosystem and precautionary approach, the reduction of discards at sea and the fight against illegal fishing, the modification of measures or sanctions in case of non-compliance by members/non-members.
it is of great importance to work towards achieving a sustainable level of integration of fishing modes, respecting european standards and combating phenomena such as iuu (illegal, unreported, unregulated), where the impact of dumping is still too great.
we support sustainable development.
‒ the conservation and rational management of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea are priorities for the european union in its efforts to protect the integrity of the natural heritage.
‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a so-called regional fisheries management organisation whose purpose is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
we cannot ignore the mutual interest in the development and proper exploitation of marine resources and the need to protect marine ecosystems that are increasingly sustainable.
in the light of the foregoing and convinced that the conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and the protection of the marine ecosystems in which these resources are present play an important role in the context of sustainable growth and development, i voted in favour of the report by mr mato calling for parliament's approval of this amended agreement.
this will help to achieve sustainable, eco-systematic and precautionary exploitation of the mediterranean, reducing the release of waste at sea and implementing a more concrete fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
‒ as we know, the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) aims to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
i believe that the amendments made are relevant, such as the establishment of the general objective of the committee, which falls within the scope of environmental biological sustainability of living marine resources and a clearer definition of the functions of the committee with the creation of multiannual management plans for the common fisheries management, the right to provide for sanctions in case of non-compliance by member states and, in case of conflict between members, the creation of a mechanism for their composition.
i decided to abstain because the new commission is committed to the overall objective of biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of marine living resources for fisheries in the mediterranean, but will do so on the basis of community regulations which penalise our fisheries and which, however, in terms of control and related sanctions, are not enforced by non-eu countries, causing differences in application and a commercial disadvantage.
i am also confident that the new provisions for the introduction of measures or sanctions in the event of non-compliance by members and non-members, as well as the establishment of a well-defined dispute settlement mechanism in the event of conflicts between the contracting parties, will play an important role in ensuring the proper protection and the balanced and sustainable exploitation of the marine resources of the mediterranean and black seas.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive products.
it is right, as the report does, to ask that 2015 be the deadline for finding concrete and sustainable solutions to these outstanding problems.
many community programmes (horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus+, youth employment initiative) directly contribute to the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth; we therefore ask the commission to put them at the centre of the draft budget for 2016 in order to ensure that they are provided with the necessary resources.
‒ the eu budget is one of the key tools for business development, job creation and sustainable and inclusive growth in the eu, as it is more of a leveraged investment budget that stimulates the various sectors of the economy.
i would like to stress that the very strong tourist vocation of the whole adriatic region must be protected and i hope that the continuation of the accession negotiations will enable us to deal concretely with the environmental question.
there are priorities on which serious and constant work is needed: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
finally, we encourage the government to implement sustainable economic reforms to boost competitiveness, overcome structural weaknesses and generally improve the business environment.
this report notes that although montenegro is doing very well on its path towards the european union, much remains to be done, particularly with regard to the rule of law, the environment, freedom of the press and the fight against corruption.
‒ whereas montenegro is currently the only country in the region to have opened and provisionally concluded some negotiating chapters with the eu, which is a positive development; that this leadership role is seen as an increased responsibility, both in the regional context and with regard to the enlargement process as a whole; the european institutions welcome the progress made in the accession negotiations and encourage the continuation of the accession negotiations on the basis of the reforms implemented and the concrete results, in particular those concerning the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption and impunity for war crimes, which have not yet been fought.
i hope that the montenegrin government will implement sustainable economic reforms to improve competitiveness and the business environment.
i also urge montenegro to continue the progress made in environmental protection and to develop sustainable energy policies.
we therefore call on all parties to ensure sustainable political cooperation and to lay the foundations for a constructive dialogue, which is essential for the democratic development of the country and the pursuit of the european agenda.
but progress requires a better political climate and improved relations between the political parties and a constructive dialogue to ensure political stability.
collaborating more actively on the fight against crime, illegal migration, environmental standards, strengthening the rule of law, protecting minorities and tackling systemic and socio-economic reforms are just some of the main challenges facing the belgrade government.
seven years after declaring independence, kosovo still faces many challenges: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the reforms of justice, sustainable development and economic reforms are central and immediate, operating with clarity and maximum participation of civil society.
however, there are a number of areas where i believe reforms are urgently needed: i am referring in particular to judicial reform, economic reform and the promotion of sustainable development.
in particular, it refers to the reform of the judiciary, economic reform and the promotion of sustainable development, and calls for greater transparency and the inclusion of civil society in decision-making; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
several critical points that deserve attention were raised, including the lack of effectiveness of the fight against corruption and the need for a legislative framework guaranteeing freedom of the press as well as diversifying energy sources and developing renewable energy sources.
it is also essential that we fight effectively against corruption, discrimination, particularly against women, and unemployment, with a focus on structural economic reforms and sustainable development.
alongside the investment plan, the way to get back on track is to be competitive: reforms must ensure real and sustainable growth.
improving and simplifying the rules in the business environment are priorities in this respect, as is the need to modernise education systems to allow for an effective match between the skills of tomorrow's workers and the demands of the labour market.
‒ the measure promotes economic recovery and a return to more sustainable growth levels on the basis of three important pillars: boosting investment, fiscal consolidation in a responsible way and accelerating structural reforms.
i too believe, as the report rightly points out, that the investment plan for europe should focus primarily on projects with european added value which are not yet eligible for bank financing and above all that it should be geared to growth and sustainability.
however, we call on member states to safeguard and strengthen the inclusiveness, sustainability and equity of social protection.
the reasons are both a lack of demand for credit due to the uncertain environment and the reluctance of institutions to provide financing for investment.
‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination on employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2015. the report highlighted that the economic and social environment in the eu continues to be alarming.
in the current economic climate, with rampant unemployment and dangerous deflation, investment (particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises) and employment measures should be given priority.
the commission's recommendations to the member states on structural consolidation and reforms, but above all on economic and social policies that promote smart and sustainable growth, through the creation of quality jobs and support for smes that are currently excluded from the global competitive game because of excessive and undue difficulties in accessing finance, can play a key role.
the european union must commit itself to promoting a model of social market economy that can guarantee sustainable growth and ensure the creation of jobs for european citizens and especially for our young people.
‒ the european union must commit itself to implementing a social and market economy model that can ensure sustainable growth.
we call for an ambitious economic policy that remains within the existing rules of the stability and growth pact, but is also capable of stimulating smart and inclusive growth and creating better and sustainable jobs.
the central theme of this year's review is to put europe back on a sustainable path of economic growth and job creation.
in the light of the above, i have decided to support the report because i believe that an ambitious expansionary economic and fiscal policy, within the existing rules of the stability and growth pact, is indispensable to stimulate smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to create better and sustainable jobs.
i also believe that the approach proposed is the right one, but i would point out that it is essential to support the efforts of the member states to carry out not only fiscal consolidation but also structural reforms in a socially balanced and economically efficient and sustainable way.
‒ whereas europe must commit itself to a social market economy model that ensures sustainable growth in order to secure jobs for the future generation instead of debt; that the economic and social environment in the eu remains bleak and that, according to the commission's autumn 2014 economic forecast, the economic recovery remains fragile; that the sustained pace of fiscal consolidation imposed during the economic crisis has hampered member states in achieving the europe 2020 objectives, which demonstrates that fiscal policies should be differentiated and adapted to the situation of each member state; stressing the need for structural reforms in the member states; i would like to thank the commission for its work on the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas.
unfortunately, beyond the noble declarations of intent, this resolution shows instead that it wants to support the same approach that has clearly failed to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the report i voted for stressed the need to strengthen the governance of the single market within the european semester as a horizontal priority of the various union policies, to ensure the proper balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions, and to improve the quality of the transposition, implementation and application of the rules governing it.
i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market in the context of the 2015 european semester, as it presents a plan of measures aimed at ensuring the full realisation of a functioning, digital and effective single market as an accelerator of sustainable economic growth and the development of competitiveness.
provided that it is a real market, that it invests in the training of individuals and businesses to prepare them for the digital age, that it completes the single transport market, that it develops the single energy market.
the europe 2020 strategy is designed to stimulate sustainable growth and the resulting creation of jobs, and therefore requires a constant and intensified commitment on these points.
the current international situation shows that europe is vulnerable from the energy point of view.
the europe 2020 targets are a challenge and an essential driver for growth, sustainability, employment and security in europe.
‒ whereas, in the context of the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy, the single market and the digital single market should be seen as two key tools to boost economic growth and quality job creation in the eu, while ensuring complementarity with more traditional growth drivers such as, for example, promoting investment in r&d&i, training and education, while paying particular attention to the needs of smes; that the single market strategy requires a holistic approach that takes into account the concerns of citizens, consumers and smes; that a properly functioning and effective single market, based on a sustainable and highly innovative and competitive social market economy, is necessary to boost sustainable growth and competitiveness, attract investment, promote social cohesion and create jobs, in order to reinvigorate the european economy; i therefore call on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the single market is governed by the principles of the treaty and the treaty of amsterdam.
i find that establishing annual governance cycles can improve the management of the single market and that this ultimately increases social cohesion, attracts investment and strengthens sustainable growth.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
‒ the sexual abuse and exploitation of children through the internet, i believe it is a problem that must be fought with maximum energy.
the virtual environment, because of its peculiarities, is increasingly dangerous for minors who are being lured here by increasingly subtle and technically advanced means.
an integrated and coordinated european approach will make it possible to combat the networking of minors; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the protection of children and the obligation to provide them with a safe environment for their development must be one of the eu's priority objectives.
at this very stage of programming the union's financial instruments, every effort should be made to increase financial assistance to russian civil society through the european instrument for democracy and human rights, as well as funding for civil society organisations and local authorities, and to include the eu-russia civil society forum in the partnership instrument in order to ensure sustainable and credible long-term support.
i am pleased that you are talking about climate change and climate refugees, who are estimated to be about 650 million in the next few years, and i am pleased that you are talking about mega sporting events, which serve to legitimize states that actually systematically violate human rights.
i would like us to think about what we would do if the others came to european territory and chased us away because they had to grow something they needed for energy reasons... i couldn't agree more.
with this speech, i ask you to help develop a model of sustainable agriculture, to give hope to those who have seen the rights of the living violated and to show compassion to the dead.
‒ in recent years, europe has had to deal with a changing political environment and with increasingly difficult security management, both within and outside the union.
moreover, the current economic climate has also meant that the european union has not been able to use its full potential to shape the international political and security environment.
‒ we once again regret that the european union is not able to use its full potential to shape the international political and security environment.
the eu has not yet been able to use its full potential to map the international political and security environment.
‒ whereas, due to the dramatic deterioration of the security environment across the eu, the international law-based order, stability and security of europe is being called upon at levels unprecedented since the beginning of european integration, which highlights the ongoing transformation of the world political order; that an ambitious and effective union foreign policy must be based on a shared vision of key european interests, values and objectives in external relations, as well as on a common perception of threats to the eu as a whole; that a process of strategic reflection on the eu's foreign and security policy needs to be launched as a matter of priority; the european council in madrid, in the light of the recent developments, has decided that a new european security strategy is needed, one which takes account of the recent geopolitical changes and can therefore provide a response to new challenges and threats.
‒ whereas, due to the dramatic deterioration of the security environment across the eu, the international law-based order, stability and security of europe is being called upon at levels unprecedented since the beginning of european integration, which highlights the ongoing transformation of the world political order; whereas an ambitious and effective union foreign policy must be based on a shared vision of key european interests, values and objectives in external relations, as well as on a common perception of threats to the eu as a whole; whereas a process of strategic reflection on the eu's foreign and security policy needs to be launched as a matter of priority; whereas recent developments require the development of a new european security strategy which takes account of recent geopolitical changes and can therefore provide a response to new challenges and threats; i voted in favour.
the introduction of systems and efforts for the rights of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers in accordance with the principle of non-refoulement; the creation of the figure of the "climate refugee", i.e.
someone who is forced to leave their country as a result of environmental disasters due to climate change.
‒ while i agree with some of the passages in the resolution analysing the sustainable exploitation of the river basin, i believe that there are too many ambiguous and unclear passages, which is why i abstained, pending the next co-decision phase to evaluate the text.
‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the sprat because the state of the sprat stocks is worrying, despite the emergency measures already adopted by the commission and the national management measures to conserve the species.
the resolution adopted by parliament also had the merit of inviting the commission to propose a multiannual management plan for plaice which would allow stocks to be raised above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield, involving professional fishermen, recreational fishermen and advisory councils in the preparation of such a management plan.
‒ regulation (eu) no 1380/2013 of 11 december 2013 on the common fisheries policy provides that stocks are to be restored or maintained above levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield.
i supported the resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the coastline.
‒ i welcome the motion for a resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the coastline, as this is a subject which is linked to a number of priorities at european level.
a multiannual management plan for plaice is needed to bring stocks above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield, taking care to have sufficient scientific data for the calculation.
identifying a total allowable catch and having a minimum landing size is part of the criteria necessary to implement sustainable fishing.
we call on the commission and the member states to use the european fisheries fund, which provides funding for the collection of scientific data, and to propose a multiannual management plan in order to maintain the stock at a maximum sustainable level.
‒ the longline is a slow-growing, late-maturing species whose fishing mortality rate is currently four times higher than maximum sustainable yield levels.
in view of the worrying state of this stock, which could be on the verge of collapse, the resolution considers that management measures for the european eel fishery are necessary in order to safeguard this species and calls on the commission to propose a multiannual management plan for the eel which would bring the stocks below maximum sustainable yield levels.
‒ whereas scientific information on the state of the stock of sprat, in particular the data available on the exact boundaries, migratory routes of the stock and the breeding grounds of the sprat, is insufficient; whereas the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) identifies four types of anchovy stock: celtic/manx/north sea, bay of biscay, waters west of the iberian peninsula and west of scotland/ireland; whereas the plaice is a noble species in great demand in the fisheries industry; calls on the commission to propose a multiannual management plan for plaice to bring stocks above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield; stressing the need to involve professional fishermen, recreational fishermen and advisory councils in the development of this management plan; considering that a multiannual management plan for plaice focuses in particular on the introduction of a total allowable catch and on the need for a decision with a sound scientific basis as regards the minimum landing size and spatial-temporal prohibitions to protect reproduction, as well as other technical measures; i voted in favour.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ the resolution reviews the human rights situation in the world and sets out the eu's priorities for the 28th session of the un human rights council (unhrc), including the abolition of the death penalty, respect for human and children's rights, and the fight against climate change.
the eu must also bring to the attention of the un human rights council issues concerning other more topical rights such as the protection of indigenous peoples whose lives and natural habitats are threatened by climate change, support for human rights defenders, protection for lgbti rights, protection of children's rights in armed conflict, the fight against torture and the death penalty.
secondly, many of the members of the european parliament have addressed the issue of the energy union today and i just want to start by saying there is a common thread between three of the main projects of this commission – the juncker plan, investment, the energy union and the digital single market.
europe can only win if it wins on innovation, if it wins on sustainability, if it wins on making an early transition into sustainable energy resources and sustainable social relations as well, because sustainability is about energy, it is about the economy and it is about social relations.
i would like to underscore what has been said by many of your members that the energy union is obviously meant to protect us against blackmail from outside energy sources and producers.
obviously it has a geopolitical importance but, apart from that, it also has the huge advantage of helping us in the transition – which is inevitable – to less dependency on fossil fuels and to a greater use of the huge potential of renewable energy, which does not only contribute to a better environment but which is also a driving force in innovation and creating a new form of jobs and a new form of productivity and a new form of economy for the european continent.
when it comes to the questions from ms grossetête, ms van brempt and ms harms, you are absolutely right that all five dimensions of the energy union are important.
but at this european council we have focused our discussions on some of these aspects, in particular energy security, but also the so-called ‘climate diplomacy’, because of the paris summit.
you will know better than me that the eu took strategic decisions on climate policy for the first time in 2007, and in october 2014 we decided on the framework of climate policy until 2030. we will come back to it in the european council in view of the outcome of the conference in paris.
and you are absolutely right: i was too brief in my introductory remarks, especially when it came to the energy union, but i was given just five minutes and i always try to respect the rules and i am a guest here, so sorry about that.
the conclusions of the european council meeting of 19 and 20 march represent a step forward towards the establishment of the energy union.
it is in these regions and in the most disadvantaged rural areas that energy and gas infrastructure projects could not only ensure a major step towards full integration of the european energy market, but also bring significant social and economic value, fostering job creation, long-term growth and competitiveness in these areas.
the council's reference to the importance of reducing emissions and developing the renewable energy market is also welcome.
i also think that the council has missed an opportunity to emphasize strongly the need to support research in the field of energy.
it is clear that to develop the market for next generation renewable energy satisfactorily, increased investment in research is needed.
the commitments on energy and the energy union, although positive, remain rather vague at the moment.
in addition to deciding on the first steps towards the energy union, the commitments to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency were reiterated, and, without specifying specifics, to strengthen climate diplomacy in the run-up to the paris summit.
the conclusions adopted by the european council on 19 and 20 march approving the european commission's framework strategy for the achievement of an energy union represent a further and encouraging step in the definition of a forward-looking climate and energy policy launched by the european union in recent months.
as we know, the main problems in this respect are energy dependence, the fragmentation of energy markets and low investment in interconnections and infrastructure.
as clearly detailed in the council's communication and conclusions, the european energy solution brings together, in a single vision, all the issues and issues inevitably involved: environmental sustainability, energy availability, security of supply, energy efficiency, the role of research and innovation, decarbonisation of the economy and investment in infrastructure.
the envi committee, of which i am a member, and parliament all welcome the progress made and will continue to work towards the completion and functioning of the energy market and towards cop21 in paris at the end of the year.
energy union and foreign policy: the european council, as usual, paid more attention to rhetoric than to the search for credible solutions to revive the economy.
i fully share the need to shift the tax burden from labour to other forms of sustainable taxation so that all sectors of the economy contribute equally to growth and the creation of quality jobs.
in the face of these heinous acts and in the light of the renewed climate of tension on the international scene, the european union is called upon to contribute to the fight against terrorism through a comprehensive strategy that is able to counter violence by identifying its deepest roots.
nobody wants it, neither in sicily nor in italy, it is harmful to health and the environment, and an italian court has said so, despite the fact that the government believes that the citizens who have appealed were not entitled to do so, and it is a sensitive military objective, but foreign, on sicilian territory.
no sicilian wants to do that, you can ask them one by one, and if europe were a community it would stand by those citizens who are fighting every day for their health and for the environment and defend them against this foreign military installation on our territory.
the situation of deep political and economic crisis in the country, which forces the population to live in a climate of uncertainty and discomfort, cannot be ignored by the european union.
as well emphasised, the union and the member states should make a strong commitment, beyond financial assistance, to contribute in all possible ways to inclusive and sustainable growth and development for all.
this contribution will be conditional on ukraine implementing certain reforms in areas such as energy, the judiciary, the fight against corruption and the protection of human rights.
tax cooperation stimulates sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection.
building a path of good governance is the only way to achieve both sustainable growth and fiscal justice.
in the light of the above, i have decided to support the report in a positive way, as a balanced and development-oriented tax system is essential to generate sustainable growth.
that may be something we would have liked but, frankly, in terms of climate change, it is better not.
the aim of this type of targeted placement should not simply be to find a job for the disabled person, but rather to create a virtuous circle that can fully exploit the potential of the person, making him or her a positive and productive element in the work environment.
the one imposed on italy is a double sentence: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this crime, including the introduction of a new law on the protection of the environment.
the social protection committee, which brings together representatives of the member states and the european commission, can enable the member states and the european commission to cooperate in order to address the challenge of social exclusion, provide a secure income, ensure the security and sustainability of pension schemes, promote social inclusion and ensure sustainable and high-quality healthcare for all.
in this context, the member states must achieve four main objectives identified by the commission: (1) making work profitable through a secure income; (2) ensure the security and sustainability of pension schemes; (3) promoting social inclusion and (4) ensuring social assistance for all.
let me be clear: i will ensure that this new body is not a duplication of what already exists, nor a bogeyman, nor a waste of public money, but rather a means of making the efforts made by the european institutions in this field more efficient.
in the light of the resources and the specificities of national systems, it is right to ask the member states to ensure sustainable pension schemes, effective social integration and universal health insurance.
it also affirms the competence of the member states for the organisation and financing of social protection and endorses the four general objectives identified by the commission in this field, namely: make work worthwhile by providing a secure income, ensure the security and sustainability of pension systems, promote social inclusion and ensure high quality and sustainable healthcare for all.
social advancement makes work worthwhile by providing secure income through sustainable pension schemes and through health care for all.
these resources should be allocated to key spending areas such as economic, social and territorial cohesion policy, sustainable growth and the exploitation of natural resources, in order to facilitate the development and implementation of local development programmes, and to trigger economic recovery and employment growth, especially among young people, including by encouraging the necessary re-launch of public investment at home.
this waste is no longer tolerable, and since my election i have been fighting to ensure that italy, which is already a net contributor, gets all that it deserves.
large sums from the european budget will be transferred from the 2014 to the 2015 management in support of regional policy, whose priorities, convergence, competitiveness and cross-border cooperation, deserve constant attention from the european parliament to ensure effective smart, inclusive and sustainable growth of the union.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the committee on the alcohol strategy, by alberto cirio, glenis willmott, marcus pretzell, josé inácio faria, younous omarjee, piernicola pedicini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000008/2015 - b8-0108/2015).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the good work done in the committee on the environment and public health has helped to bring a balanced resolution to the debate and the vote.
it introduces new concepts such as an ecosystem approach, although not fully understood as the maximum sustainable yield.
the artistic ecosystem therefore needs copyright and copyright must be a real guarantee of adequate remuneration for copyright holders, particularly authors.
i am talking about those companies that use the waste of wood processing, for example, to produce furniture.
this directive will encourage the use of this waste in the production of advanced biofuels.
so we ask the commission in the revision legislation to move swiftly towards the decarbonisation of the transport sector, but above all to make the biofuel legislation really green and really sustainable.
we're talking about companies that use this waste as raw material and therefore participate in a circular economy process, which is something that we should prioritize.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the reforms of the fuel quality and renewable energy directives, the union is taking a step in the right direction, which is to build a greener and more sustainable future for this part of the world.
it is important that in these months of negotiations the european parliament has stood out for having decidedly chosen the strong vision in favour of innovative biofuel rules and for having supported the european union's role in combating climate change and promoting the green economy.
the text produced by the committee on the environment set very ambitious standards, and rightly so.
the commission has also been working on a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after difficult negotiations we have reached agreement on iluc, known as indirect land use change, with the aim of capping greenhouse gas emissions caused by the increasing use of agricultural land for the cultivation of products for the production of biofuels.
the aim of this dossier is to transition to biofuels that offer substantial greenhouse gas savings even when estimated and provisional emissions from indirect land use change are reported, while protecting existing investments by economic operators who have opted for first generation biofuels under the current european standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after years of heated debate on the future of biofuels in europe, the european parliament is finally about to vote on a dossier which is nevertheless an important signal in the fight against climate change and in the promotion of the green economy.
real, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth cannot, as it is now, come from the production of so-called traditional biofuels, from food crops that use land that can be used instead to produce food, while new land is taken from forests by increasing co2.
the challenge for europe, also in view of the paris meeting, is to strengthen its leadership in the fight against climate change by promoting the green economy with fair and sustainable policies.
without social equity and environmental sustainability, there is no way out of the crisis and there will be no new and good jobs.
the european union takes another step towards a greener and more sustainable future.
in all these months of negotiations, the european parliament has stood out for its strong vision of innovative biofuel rules and for a stronger eu role in fighting climate change and promoting the green economy.
the vote in the committee on the environment set a higher standard than that reached in the final agreement with the council, but i would like to thank mr torvalds once again for the way he has conducted his work and for the results achieved.
at the same time, there is a strong signal of encouragement for those investing in clean and sustainable energy technologies.
many european countries, including italy, have already embarked on a virtuous path of innovation in the biofuels sector in recent months, and it is hoped that the new common regulatory framework can now be followed by other important measures under the energy union strategy.
what we are bringing home today, after a long negotiation which was unblocked under the italian presidency, as has been mentioned, is a very important measure which goes beyond its specific merit, which is, as we have said, to oblige the member states to reduce the use of lightweight plastic bags, which are considered one of the factors of pollution in general and the main factor of marine pollution.
while european waste legislation has been set up on the "4rs" which are the basis for proper and effective sustainable management, the first "r", the reduction of waste generation, has not always worked.
we have data in europe which, apart from the crisis, show us that the quantities of waste have on the contrary increased in recent years, partly because of the failure to implement serious prevention policies.
this measure starts from there, that is, for the first time we are going to act on the first level of the waste hierarchy, we are going to tell the states that they must reduce the production of waste with a mandatory target by introducing a price.
with this directive, the european union is providing an important tool to advance the circular economy, a new frontier in the sustainable economy.
the new rules, through the reduction of waste, in this case lightweight plastic bags, are simultaneously promoting a more effective and efficient use of resources with a positive impact on the entire economy.
we are in fact moving from the simple use and disposal of products, typical of a linear economy, to the need instead to find alternative solutions, which have less impact on resources and the environment and which also stimulate new green technologies, for example the green chemistry chain, to the production and research on organic matrix bags, one of the virtuous challenges of the green economy.
i would like to conclude by saying that this is an important process which must go on, as we are committed to do as soon as possible with the new and more ambitious proposal which the commission will present on the waste cycle.
in short, as is often the case with urgent environmental questions, the response time is still too long.
let me just say one thing in closing: i think it's crucial to involve the environmental movement in this monitoring.
over the years we have learned how environmental justice conflicts are fundamental to a fairer europe.
last year italy introduced a ban on the marketing and free distribution of plastic bags, with significant results, but more ambitious, truly traceable results are now needed in waste prevention and recycling policies, with appropriate governance tools and support for industrial research and extensive education actions.
the dispersion of plastic waste has devastating effects on the terrestrial and, above all, the marine environment, as evidenced by the huge accumulation of floating trash, known as the "pacific trash vortex", which has been forming in the pacific ocean since the 1950s.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this is a great success for parliament, commissioner, because as you know, during the trilogue which i had the pleasure of chairing as chairman of the committee on the environment, we were able to reach an agreement with the rapporteur and the council.
we have acted in the interests of the environment by seeking the solution which some european countries have already adopted and which seems to be working.
today we have targets on plastic bags, we have targets, we have new technologies and we ban and we push away those that don't seem to be the best for the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome and support this proposal for a regulation, which finally goes in the direction of greater control of co2 emissions, including for the maritime sector which contributes as much as 4%, with a greater impact on port operations.
as a spokesman, i receive many reports from ports near residential areas such as taranto, ancona or voltri, in the west of liguria, where noise pollution is added to environmental pollution.
we must work to promote controls, but also concrete and environmentally sustainable solutions such as electric wharves or the so-called 'cold ironing' which involves the use of only electric propulsion within port areas.
we must bring all european environmental standards up to the highest level without creating a series a and b port.
maritime transport is also the most energy-efficient and environmentally sustainable mode of transport of goods, as the co2 emissions required to transport one tonne of goods over one kilometre by sea are lower than those required for both road and air transport.
however, in the last decade, we have seen a 48 percent increase in greenhouse gas emissions from shipping, which has contributed significantly to the pollution of our planet.
today's vote, following an agreement reached in december following a major negotiation with the italian presidency, demonstrates once again the european parliament's strong focus on sustainability issues by establishing an eu system for monitoring, reporting and verifying co2 emissions from shipping as a basis to facilitate the setting of reduction targets at a later stage and for the application of a market-based measure, which could take the form of a contribution or target-based compensation fund, or an emissions trading scheme that will be able to ensure a reduction in co2 emissions from shipping.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, international shipping remains the only mode of transport which is not included in the european union's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, despite the fact that emissions from the shipping sector are a major contributor to both air pollution and climate change.
the development of a european system for monitoring, reporting and verifying (mrv) co2 emissions from maritime transport is therefore essential.
it can provide the basis on which europe can, or at least should, develop emission reduction policies for the maritime sector consistent with global policies on climate, air pollution and human health protection.
the development of ambitious policies for reducing emissions in this area is all the more important in the light of the challenges facing the maritime sector in the coming years.
‒ today the european parliament took a step forward in protecting maritime workers, because this convention, which the eu is about to join, aims to ensure that staff working on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job in a way that reduces safety and environmental risks.
the objective of the convention is to ensure that the personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job, in order to minimise potential risks to the safety of persons or to the marine environment.
the objective of the convention is to ensure that personnel operating on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job, so that potential risks to the safety of persons and property at sea or to the marine environment are minimised during operations on board fishing vessels.
the aim is to ensure that personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified (and hold an official certificate attesting to this) and fit for the job (following a medical examination), so that potential risks to the safety of persons and property at sea or to the marine environment are minimised during operations on board fishing vessels.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree with the objective of ensuring that the personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job, so that potential risks to the safety of persons and property at sea or to the marine environment are minimised during operations on board.
‒ i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential to ensure that the personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified, including through an official certificate attesting to this, and fit for the job, so that potential risks to the safety of persons and property or to the marine environment are minimised.
‒ we call on all member states to sign and ratify this convention, which aims to ensure that personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job, so as to reduce potential risks to the safety of persons and property at sea and to the marine environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as it is in line with the objective of the stcw-f convention, namely to ensure that personnel working on board fishing vessels are qualified (and hold an official certificate attesting to this) and fit for the job (following medical examination), so that potential risks to the safety of persons and property at sea or to the marine environment are minimised during operations on board fishing vessels.
i have decided to vote in favour of this recommendation because i believe that it is necessary to try to minimise the potential risks to the safety of persons and property on board fishing vessels or to the marine environment by ensuring that the staff are properly qualified and fit for the job.
- i voted against this measure: the biofuel bubble was created by the eu imposing mandatory quotas for "organic" production for ecological and climate purposes.
the proposals in the text therefore miss an opportunity to tackle at the root the problem of the environmental and economic unsustainability of biofuels from agricultural crops.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i voted against the torvalds report, despite the great work and efforts made by the rapporteur in recent months, because i believe that the compromise reached does not go in the direction of making biofuel legislation truly sustainable.
it also does not protect our industries which are really focusing on the circular economy, such as the panel and furniture industries, which traditionally use wood processing waste and wood waste, but which will have increasing difficulties in obtaining raw materials because of this directive.
in my view, it is a mistake not to ensure proper recognition of the principle of cascading use of biomass (use, reuse, recycling and only finally energy use of wood), so as to encourage the energy use of only wood that can no longer be used for other industrial directions.
‒ i supported this recommendation since i believe that the development of advanced biofuels is of key importance for both the creation of jobs and growth and the reaching of the goal of a greener europe in terms of energy.
the opportunity to address the root cause of the environmental and economic unsustainability of biofuels from so-called conventional or first generation crops, of which indirect land deforestation change - in other words, deforestation, the taking of agricultural land for non-food production and land grabbing - is the most obvious negative impact, has been lost.
‒ today i voted in favour of the proposal to accelerate the transition from first generation biofuels, derived from agricultural crops, to more advanced second generation biofuels, produced from certain types of waste, residues and new sources such as algae.
the need for this is justified by the many criticisms of first-generation biofuels, derived from agricultural crops, which are accused of causing indirect emissions linked to land use change ('indirect land use change'), since the expansion of cultivated land at the expense of forests leads to an increase in greenhouse gases.
we had much higher targets, both in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from first-generation biofuels and in terms of technological progress through greater promotion of second-generation biofuels.
‒ i voted in favour of parliament's second reading position which, with reference to the directive on the quality of fuels and renewable energy, introduces improvements in terms of increased investment in renewable sources and energy efficiency.
‒ the commission's proposed measure aims to start the transition to a biofuels strategy that produces substantial greenhouse gas emission reductions when indirect land-use change emissions are also taken into account.
considering directives 2009/28/ec and 98/70/ec which provide for the achievement of the 10% share of renewable energy in the transport sector, respectively, and the binding 6% reduction of the emissions of gaseous fuels from road and non-road vehicles, and considering that the measure also contains the indications for achieving these results, i considered that i would vote for some significant amendments to the measure positively and others negatively.
it is very important to take steps to reduce the environmental impact of cars, these tools that are now indispensable in the organization of our lives.
it is not possible to think of reducing co2 levels by reducing the distance travelled by each of us, but it is possible to expect that the fuel in our car tanks will be more environmentally friendly, more sustainable in the long term and, above all, less polluting.
‒ i have decided to vote in favour of amending the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive.
the commission's proposal to start the transition to a biofuel strategy that produces substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, also taking into account emissions associated with indirect land use change, is fully acceptable.
such a reduction would ensure that europe not only achieves the targets set in the europe 2020 strategy, but also has the possibility to determine a long-term investment perspective, through support for innovation in sustainable biofuels and other tools for decarbonisation of the transport sector.
the widespread use of fuels of plant origin, also promoted by directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, has led to the development of industrial chains with a heavy impact on the fragile ecosystems of primary forests and has encouraged the abandonment of food production for more profitable energy-related production.
to prevent these perverse effects from continuing, m5s has worked to reduce the mandatory blending rates of biofuels, as well as promoting the introduction of environmental and social sustainability concepts for their production.
‒ i voted in favour of the directive because the eu's objective must be to find a biofuels strategy that produces substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, also taking into account emissions associated with indirect land-use change.
a competitive europe, as far as sustainable fuels are concerned, means both investment and employment and sustainability and respect for the environment.
at the same time, there is a strong signal of encouragement for those investing in clean and sustainable energy technologies.
‒ i have expressed my support for the recommendation for the second reading on the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive.
european environmental legislation is a key instrument for achieving the binding target of reducing the greenhouse gas intensity of fuels by 6% by 2020. in particular, biofuels have a significant effect in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and indirect land-use change.
i therefore support the call for a 6% limit on the share of conventional biofuels contributing to the objectives of directives 2009/28/ec and 98/70/ec and actions to improve the environmental performance of biofuel production processes, in particular for new plants.
these forecasts are aimed at improving environmental protection without sacrificing the existing installations and investments already made.
a long-term strategy for reducing transport pollution is needed to enable europe to be at the forefront of the fight against pollution while maintaining its technological leadership in sustainable fuels.
with the text adopted today, we are calling for a cap on first generation biofuels and binding energy consumption targets to be met by advanced biofuels by 2020, for a strategy that creates a long-term perspective for environmental protection, food sustainability and to support innovation in sustainable biofuels.
‒ i welcome the recommendation for second reading on the council position on the quality of petrol and diesel fuel and directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources.
it is very important to achieve a 10% share of renewable energy in transport by 2020 and to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions intensity of fuels for road transport and non-road mobile machinery by 6% by 2020. improved performance linked to greater efficiency and less pollution would lead to a positive trend which should not be underestimated.
‒ in october 2012, the european union adopted directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, which sets a binding target of achieving a 10% share of renewable energy in transport by 2020 through a 6% reduction in the greenhouse gas emission intensity of fuels for road transport and non-road mobile machinery by 2020. however, directives 2009/28/ec and 98/70/ec lack a long-term perspective and it is therefore necessary to examine tools and measures for a comprehensive and technology-neutral approach to promoting emission reductions and energy efficiency in transport for a post-2020 strategy.
‒ the aim of the commission proposal, which we welcome, is to start the transition to a biofuel strategy that produces substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. to this end, we believe that a more stringent limit of 6% should be introduced on the share of conventional biofuels which can contribute to the objectives of the two directives in question.
on the other hand, however, we believe that failure to address the effects of indirect land use change would undermine the eu's climate objectives in the transport sector.
in addition, in order to create a long-term perspective for investment and support innovation in sustainable biofuels and other tools for decarbonisation of the transport sector, it is necessary to examine tools and measures for an increasingly holistic and technology-neutral approach.
‒ i voted in favour of the final text proposed by the eu council on the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive.
the main purpose of the directive is to initiate the transition from conventional biofuels to biofuels that offer substantial greenhouse gas savings: the so-called 'second generation or advanced biofuels'.
‒ having regard to the position of parliament and the council at first reading and the recommendation for second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have voted against.
‒ it should be noted that the objectives of the two directives are: to achieve a 10% share of renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020 and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from fuels used in road transport and non-road mobile machinery by 6% by 2020. in order to have a long-term perspective for investment and to support innovation in sustainable biofuels and other transport decarbonisation tools, a comprehensive and technology-neutral approach to promoting emission reductions and energy efficiency in transport for a post-2020 strategy is needed.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation at second reading as it is in line with the objective of the commission's proposal, presented in october 2012, to start the transition towards a biofuels strategy that produces substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions when also taking into account emissions associated with indirect land-use change.
proposals to limit the contribution of conventional biofuels to the achievement of the targets set out in directive 2009/28/ec, to improve the greenhouse gas performance of biofuel production processes by increasing the greenhouse gas reduction threshold for new installations, while protecting installations already in operation on 1 july 2014, and to encourage greater market penetration of advanced biofuels, allowing them to contribute more to the targets set out in directive 2009/28/ec than conventional biofuels, are welcome.
‒ today i voted in favour of the revision of the biofuels legislation, which will help reduce co2 emissions from transport and accelerate the transition to cleaner biofuels.
first generation biofuels, produced mainly from cereals, have proved to be counterproductive in the fight against climate change: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the vote today, the result of a tough compromise with the council, provides for a ceiling on the production of biofuels derived from agricultural crops: in the context of the 10% renewable energy target in transport by 2020, first generation biofuels should account for no more than 7% of total energy consumption in transport, compared to the 5% proposed by the commission and supported by the s&d group.
innovation for the production of second generation biofuels (for example from certain types of waste and from new sources such as algae) is also promoted, for which member states will have to set a national target for the share of innovative biofuels in total transport consumption.
‒ in the vast majority of cases, biofuels are neither environmentally friendly nor sustainable.
three problems: put pressure on remaining natural ecosystems, from which new arable land is obtained: but swamps, forests or grasslands store carbon in the subsoil and in plant biomass.
their conversion into fields and plantations releases climate-altering gases into the atmosphere (iluc, indirect land use change impact); biofuels from food crops (such as maize) put the car's fuel tank in competition with the stomachs of the poor; the production of biofuels requires fossil fuels, used both for agricultural machinery and for the production of chemical fertilizers and pesticides: in view of this, co2 emissions from the use of biofuels can be quite similar to those of diesel and petrol and the eroei (energy return on energy investment) is minimal or negative.
the climate and the land are priceless.
‒ to create a long-term perspective for investment and support innovation in sustainable biofuels and other transport decarbonisation tools, it is necessary to examine tools and measures for a comprehensive and technology-neutral approach to promoting emission reductions and energy efficiency in transport.
‒ today i voted in favour of the directives on fuel quality and renewable energy.
the two directives now provide a positive framework for ensuring the sustainable use of biofuels in transport.
i think that limiting the share of biofuels to 7% for the 10% renewable energy target in transport is a relevant and necessary measure and i welcome the provisions that promote the use of advanced biofuels.
i would like to conclude by recalling the need to take account of the indirect impact of the use of land for biofuel production, which could undermine efforts to control greenhouse gas emissions and raise the cost of agri-foodstuffs.
‒ i voted yes to this recommendation because reducing the consumption of plastic carrier bags would be a big step forward towards a society more respectful of the environment.
the text agreed at second reading avoids this danger by combining the requirements of environmental protection and public health.
for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, there will finally be binding eu-wide measures to reduce waste generation.
the introduction of obligations for states to reduce the use of plastic bags will help to protect the environment, especially the marine environment.
this will certainly encourage the development of products with a lower impact on the surrounding environment and the search for new less polluting materials.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive because i think it is acceptable that people want to prevent and reduce the impact of packaging and packaging waste on the environment.
the use of plastic bags with a thickness of less than 50 microns, which are much less reused than thicker plastic bags, generates a considerable amount of waste, which is reduced by the application of this directive.
i am particularly pleased that for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, it has finally been possible to introduce binding measures against member states, a sign of a stronger and more determined commitment by the union to regulating certain aspects of this sector.
‒ the directive we are voting on will limit the consumption of non-biodegradable single-use plastic bags, so as to reduce the huge amount that ends up in the waste cycle every day or dispersed into the environment and waterways and aquatic ecosystems, where it remains for many years.
member states will have the choice of taking measures to reduce the average annual consumption of non-biodegradable plastic carrier bags per citizen to 90 by 2019 and 40 by 2025 or to ensure that by 2018 the bags are no longer provided to consumers free of charge in supermarkets and shops: another important step in protecting our environment.
this aspect is particularly important for our country, helping to close a long dispute in which italy was the target of an infringement procedure, with the "guilt" of having been at the forefront of the production of plastic bags that are virtuous from an environmental point of view.
but more generally, the proposal adopted today by parliament at second reading has the merit of establishing a new legal framework for a more ambitious european common policy on the treatment of plastic bags in order to preserve the environment and biodiversity.
‒ billions of plastic bags end up in nature every year as untreated waste.
the directive will provide for binding measures at eu level to reduce waste generation, which is why i voted in favour.
‒ i am voting in favour of the text agreed at second reading which avoids risks to companies in the sector, while at the same time combining the needs of environmental protection and public health.
i thank mr auken and my s&d colleagues in the committee on the environment for the result achieved.
the commission proposal has been significantly improved by requiring member states to ensure a sustained reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic bags: for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, binding eu-wide measures will be introduced to reduce waste generation.
reducing the use and consumption of plastic bags is an issue that affects all european citizens and can make a real contribution to achieving europe's objectives in the fight against pollution and environmental protection.
i am very pleased that the introduction of the obligation for member states to ensure a sustained reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic bags is a welcome step, because it is the first time that binding european waste rules are being introduced.
for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, binding eu-wide measures will be introduced to reduce waste generation.
in the light of the above, i have supported the report because i believe it represents the right way forward to prevent the production of waste and thus mitigate the overall environmental impact by promoting a more efficient use of resources.
‒ given that oxo-degradable plastic is used specifically for the production of plastic bags, it is absolutely appropriate to provide legally binding monitoring measures in the context of an amendment to the packaging directive as regards plastic bags, rather than referring the matter to the uncertain follow-up of the commission's green paper on plastic waste.
the commission is also proposing to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment against the emission of gaseous pollutants from diesel engines.
i hope that this will lead to greater public awareness of sustainable consumption with reduced waste and positive environmental outcomes.
‒ finally, we should be able to drastically reduce the number of plastic bags made of lightweight material, which are often not reused and represent a huge environmental cost, because they are difficult to destroy and cause serious damage to the environment.
i have decided to vote against the rejection proposal because i am in favour of the text agreed at second reading between the council and parliament because it avoids the danger of jeopardising the biodegradable bags sector, in which the italian chemical industry is at the forefront, combining the needs of environmental protection and public health.
i think that the agreement reached between parliament and the council gives the member states a fair amount of leeway to take different measures depending on the environmental impact, the compostability and the intended use of plastic bags.
these have a devastating impact on the environment: an estimated 8 million plastic carrier bags are dumped every year in the eu, ending up in rivers, lakes and seas, where they cause long-term pollution by the pollutant particles they release into the water, seriously altering ecosystems.
since such pollution also endangers the safety of the food chain, it constitutes a threat to human health: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of consumers against the risks of chemical agents in foodstuffs.
oxo-biodegradable bags, contrary to what the name suggests, do not represent a solution to the problem of environmental pollution by microplastics, but rather aggravate it because they contain an additive that causes the fragmentation of plastic into microparticles.
‒ the legislation adopted today will oblige member states to take new measures to reduce the average annual consumption of plastic bags to 90 lightweight bags per citizen by 2019 and to 40 by 2025. a decision which not only preserves the environment in which we live, but also saves 740 million euros a year.
finally, for the first time in 40 years of european waste legislation, there will be binding measures at eu level to reduce waste production, a measure which i can only support.
‒ i am voting in favour because i believe that europe has a responsibility, also as an institution, to send a signal for respecting and protecting the environment.
limiting the spread of plastic bags (often used only once as waste containers, also significantly increasing the cost of disposal processes) is a clear message first cultural, and then political, to try to make the continent more sustainable.
from now on, we will have to halve our consumption compared to 2010, already by the end of 2019, and we will not be able to use more than 90 light bags per person, and then go down to 40 by the end of 2025. as an alternative, eu countries will have to ensure that consumers pay for the use of ultralight plastic bags by 2018. this is a huge environmental problem, as billions of plastic bags are released into the environment and seriously pollute waterways and aquatic ecosystems.
‒ i voted in favour of this measure, which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the shipping sector as well.
what is envisaged is a system of monitoring, reporting and verification, with the aim of increasing information on the efficiency and emissions of ships, thereby encouraging the reduction of consumption and therefore of emissions.
in transport, the maritime sector is the only one in europe today not affected by community measures to reduce co2 emissions.
the text we are adopting today is a first step which takes account of the fact that the sector accounts for 4% of total eu emissions, which are estimated to increase by around 50% by 2030. this is a regulation which concerns vessels over 5 000 tonnes transiting european ports, irrespective of their country of registration, and which will also have to be taken into account in future negotiations within the international maritime organisation.
a positive sign that reinforces the message that the transition to a more sustainable european system must necessarily involve all the sectors concerned.
i have always been very critical of climate policy, of which this measure is part.
‒ the proposal sets new eu rules to collect data on emissions and engine efficiency from boats for incremental improvements, requiring shipowners using eu ports to monitor and report co2 emissions every year from january 2018. this is a first step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions from large ships.
‒ the proposal under consideration introduces a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport.
in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport, it was proposed to set up a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying (mrv) co2 emissions from fuel consumption of ships as a first step in a phased approach to include maritime transport emissions in community policies for greenhouse gas reduction.
the introduction of an mrv system allows for a reduction in emissions of up to 2% compared to the status quo and an overall net cost reduction of up to eur 1,2 billion by 2030. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the regulation.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i believe that it is appropriate to establish a system to monitor and control co2 emissions in the shipping sector as a first step towards a global monitoring system.
international shipping remained the only mode of transport not covered by the eu's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, despite the fact that shipping emissions are a major contributor to both air pollution and climate change.
i believe that this resolution represents the basis on which europe can, or at least should, develop emission reduction policies for the maritime sector consistent with global policies on climate, air pollution and the protection of human health.
finally, i believe that the development of ambitious policies to reduce emissions in this sector is all the more important in the light of the challenges facing the maritime sector in the coming years.
‒ i voted in favour of the regulation on the establishment of a system for monitoring, recording and evaluating carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
the introduction of the new mechanism is of primary importance, especially in the light of the fact that maritime transport remains the only transport activity not yet included in the european plan for reducing pollutant emissions.
improving the quantity and quality of information available on pollution from shipping will not only provide a clearer picture of the state of the seas, but is expected to act as a stimulus to reduce emissions and fuel consumption.
i also welcome the provisions in this regulation which have the effect of minimising the administrative and bureaucratic burden on companies by making the information collected accessible and reusable for other purposes, as well as the introduction of the obligation for all categories of vessels to display the energy efficiency statement.
‒ i voted in favour because i support the proposal that requires shipowners using community ports to monitor and report their co2 emissions every year from january 2018, although the rules will only apply to ships over 5 000 gross tonnage.
i believe that this is a first step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions from these large ships.
‒ i supported this proposal for a recommendation requiring all shipowners using eu ports to monitor and report their co2 emissions every year.
international shipping remains the only type of sector not yet included in community measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i am in favour of the second reading of the proposal under consideration, which introduces a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport.
the system is designed to collect data on emissions and engine efficiency and encourage further efforts to reduce emissions and fuel consumption.
this is therefore a first step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions from ships over 5 000 gross tonnage, while excluding warships and fishing boats from monitoring.
‒ the proposal would introduce a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport.
i welcome the speedy and prompt approval and adoption of the draft resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec, by my colleagues in the envi committee, and in particular by josé inácio faria, rapporteur for the draft resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec.
today's vote confirms the outcome reached in december, following a major negotiation with the italian presidency, and demonstrates once again how the european parliament is taking sustainability issues seriously, by establishing an eu system for monitoring, reporting and verifying (mrv) co2 emissions from shipping, as a basis for facilitating the setting of reduction targets at a later stage and for the application of a market-based measure, which could take the form of a contribution or target-based compensation fund or an emissions trading scheme, which will be able to ensure a reduction in co2 emissions from shipping.
‒ i am in favour of the recommendation on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec.
the possibility of controlling the consumption and pollution of vessels fishing in the seas and oceans at european level is of great importance.
protecting our environment remains a widespread priority that must be respected and effective monitoring remains crucial.
‒ the proposal we have discussed and adopted today is of fundamental importance as it introduces a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport.
the final text, the result of long and complex interinstitutional negotiations which were concluded on 18 november 2014, was adopted by an overwhelming majority in our committee on the environment.
‒ the text establishes a european-wide system for monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) of greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport, in order to improve information on the efficiency of ships and emissions from the sector, and to encourage reductions in emissions and fuel consumption.
according to the impact assessment accompanying this proposal for a regulation, co2 emissions from international shipping in the eu increased by 48% between 1990 and 2007. the exact amount of co2 and greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport is currently unknown due to the lack of monitoring and reporting of these emissions.
‒ the proposal that was voted on introduces a sound system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation at second reading as the proposal under consideration introduces a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategic plan for greenhouse gas reduction.
i have decided to vote against because i have always been very critical of climate policy, of which this measure is part.
‒ the problem of co2 emissions must be addressed at international level.
the fight against climate change cannot continue to be an eu-only battle, but must involve all the main greenhouse gas emitters.
i have decided to vote in favour of this new european regulation in the hope that it will serve as a spearhead for joint action by the international community to reduce emissions from shipping.
only then can we achieve tangible results and improve the marine environment without putting european industry at a disadvantage compared with its foreign competitors.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislation establishing a european system for monitoring, reporting and verifying (mrv) greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport, in order to improve information on the energy efficiency of ships and encourage reductions in emissions and fuel consumption.
international shipping, which accounts for around 4% of all greenhouse gas emissions in the eu, remains the only type of transport not yet included in the eu's co2 reduction measures.
in anticipation of substantial increases in future emissions, action at european level was needed with a first measure requiring shipowners using eu ports to monitor and report the co2 emissions produced each year by ships over 5 000 tonnes.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
the proposal is a small step forward but equally significant for the fight against climate change.
the shipping sector is one of the largest sources of climate-altering gas emissions (4% of total eu emissions).
without regulation and without standardized control, emissions from this sector could more than double by 2050. the proposal introduces, from 2018, monitoring, reporting, verification of carbon emissions for large ships calling at european ports and the inclusion of emissions from maritime transport in greenhouse gas reduction targets.
this will allow data and information on the performance of individual ships to be collected which will then be useful to encourage further efforts to reduce emissions as well as the energy performance of the ships themselves.
‒ the proposal voted today introduces a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport.
a new step forward towards ever more careful protection and safeguarding of the environment.
this plan will serve as a model for future plans and therefore needs to be in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy in ensuring environmental, economic and social sustainability and respect for the precautionary principle.
the basic regulation clearly states that multiannual plans must include conservation measures to restore and maintain fish stocks above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield (msy).
we must continue to act in the name of sustainability and the ecosystem approach in fisheries management to meet the objectives set by the cfp.
‒ the multiannual plans under the common fisheries policy aim to restore and maintain fish stocks above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield.
the plan should also allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and ensure the stability of fishing opportunities and, consequently, the livelihoods of fishermen.
cod, herring and sprat are important components of the baltic sea ecosystem and there are strong biological interactions between them.
the plan should, in particular, allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks, ensuring a constant level of potential fishing and, consequently, the livelihood of fishermen.
at the same time, the new plan aims to promote more informed management of stocks, fisheries and the ecosystem through expert advice and the support of scientific advice.
finally, i believe that the choice of using a regionalised approach to the introduction of detailed measures to achieve maximum sustainable yield will allow for a more timely response to sudden changes in the status of the stocks concerned.
the plans set fishing limits for the various species, so that stocks remain above maximum sustainable yield.
‒ the proposal for a regulation establishing a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting these stocks aims to ensure that fishing and aquaculture activities are sustainable from a socioeconomic and environmental point of view in the long term.
the multi-species management plan established by the regulation requires that more account be taken of the different ecological functions and roles of the species covered by the plan.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
protecting the sea from overfishing is the best way to safeguard the balance of the system and ensure its long-term sustainability.
i voted in favour of this proposal because it was essential to have regulations to protect these three species which are vital to the baltic sea ecosystem.
i think that the idea of multi-species management of these stocks, which account for 94% of catches in a sea with an exceptionally sensitive ecosystem, is a truly innovative concept in fisheries planning.
i therefore vote in favour, particularly because of the highly experimental nature of the project, which aims to achieve a balanced and sustainable exploitation of the stocks, while also ensuring a stable fishing opportunity.
i have supported the wałęsa report which, in addition to sharing the general orientation of the commission's proposal with regard to the need for a multi-species management plan in the baltic sea, agrees with the approach taken by the commission that further specification of the measures needed to achieve the maximum sustainable yield for the stocks concerned should be based on the regionalised approach provided for by the reform of the common fisheries policy.
the plan should be able to allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and ensure the stability of fishing opportunities and, consequently, the livelihoods of fishermen.
at the same time, it should ensure that management is based on the most up-to-date scientific advice on the status of the stocks concerned, the interactions between species and other aspects of the ecosystem and fishing activities in general.
we therefore consider it essential, in order to achieve the maximum sustainable yield for the stocks concerned, to refer to a regionalised approach, as laid down in article 18 of the basic regulation.
the scientific advice of the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) indicates that for some of these stocks the current exploitation rates are not compatible with the achievement of maximum sustainable yield.
the specific objective of this proposal is therefore to ensure the sustainable exploitation of these stocks in the baltic sea, in accordance with the principle of maximum sustainable yield and in line with the ecosystem approach to fisheries management.
in the light of the above, i have decided to support the proposal as i believe that the common fisheries policy should contribute to the protection of the marine environment, the sustainable management of all commercially exploited species and, in particular, the achievement of good ecological status by 2020 as provided for in article 1 (1) of directive 2008/56/ec.
in this way, the plan should lead to a more balanced and sustainable exploitation of stocks.
at the same time, it also ensures the stability of fishing opportunities and a more favourable environment for fishermen.
the implementation of the plan will result in more up-to-date advice on the status of the stocks covered by the plan, on ecosystem aspects and on fishing activities.
i am confident that the approach adopted can ensure a more sustainable and balanced exploitation of these stocks on the basis of the most up-to-date scientific data on the interactions between the different fish species and with other elements of the ecosystem and the environment.
today's vote is certainly a test case for adapting stock management to the principles of maximum sustainable yield and regionalisation on which the new cfp is based.
‒ the multiannual plan for certain fish stocks in the baltic sea, which i voted in favour of, is the first such plan to be approved under the new common fisheries policy (cfp), which came into force in 2014. multiannual plans should allow for the long-term balanced and sustainable management of stocks of various fish species, providing greater certainty for fishing activities and the controlled exploitation of fishery resources by creating the conditions for their restoration.
to achieve this, multiannual plans are based on the concept of maximum sustainable yield (msy), which is to set, on the basis of the latest scientific data, catch rates that allow stocks to reproduce and to ensure that they are exploited under economically and environmentally sustainable conditions.
in view of the future development of the long-term plan for the mediterranean and the particular level of overfishing in this basin, it is important that we have voted for this first plan, which will give parliament a strong position on the protection of the environment and fisheries in the negotiations with the council.
in this way, we make the cfp environmentally sustainable without sacrificing the economic sustainability of the artisanal fishing industry.
my concern is to preserve fish stocks while maintaining a sustainable economy.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution introducing the landing obligation, as i believe that the practice of discarding species subject to catch limits and species subject to minimum sizes is harmful to fish stocks, the marine environment and costly for fishermen.
the introduction of the landing obligation will help to reduce waste, to make a more accurate selection of catches and to collect more reliable data on the quantity of fish taken from the sea.
this will give fishermen more time to 'adapt' to the rules on 'disposal' of waste fish.
since discards represent a significant waste and compromise the sustainable exploitation of marine organisms and ecosystems, and since compliance by operators with the landing obligation is essential to produce the desired results, it is of particular importance that this regulation sets out to classify violations of the landing obligation as a serious infringement under the regulation.
‒ today i voted in favour of the amendments to the regulation on how to enforce the ban on discarding or landing obligation, which is one of the central objectives of the new common fisheries policy (cfp) and which was approved by the european parliament in 2013. the landing obligation for fishermen is to land unwanted catches (usually non-commercial species or of unwanted or prohibited size) and not to discard them, to avoid the economic and environmental damage resulting from the death of most of the fish discarded in this way.
this is another important step in the implementation of the new cfp, with a view to achieving the objective of sustainable management and restoration of fisheries resources.
considering that the potential of the cultural and creative sectors in europe, and in particular of the european film industry, is not yet fully exploited, the desire to create a favourable investment climate, for example through a new regulatory text in this field, is appreciated.
in a multimedia context, harmonisation of the rules governing the digital single market serves to create a business-friendly environment that protects intellectual property and users.
‒ whereas cinematographic works are both cultural and economic assets and make an important contribution to the european economy in terms of growth and employment, while helping to shape european identities by reflecting cultural and linguistic diversity, promoting european cultures across borders and fostering cultural exchanges and mutual understanding between citizens, and also contributing to the formation and development of critical thinking; whereas the potential of the cultural and creative sectors in europe, and in particular of the european film industry, is not yet fully exploited in promoting the diversity and heritage of european culture and in generating sustainable growth and jobs that can also benefit other sectors of the economy, giving europe a competitive advantage at world level; i therefore voted in favour.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of forests and the protection of the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on a new strategy of the european union for the forestry sector since sustainable development of our forests is very important, not only on an environmental level but also on the socioeconomic one.
‒ when we talk about forests, there are many things to talk about: it is important that europe brings all these together in a comprehensive strategy focused on sustainability.
forests play a key role not only in safeguarding the environment and biodiversity but also in supporting the economy of rural communities and mountain areas.
public and private owners should be encouraged to manage forest assets in a participatory manner, by encouraging integrated and sustainable management and by promoting the opportunities that forests can offer.
‒ today i voted in favour of the new eu forest strategy which must focus on sustainable forest management, promoting the efficient use of their raw materials, increasing the competitiveness of the forest industry.
i think it is essential to increase the use of sustainable materials such as wood, one of the eu's key raw materials, not only to protect the environment but also to increase employment.
this proposal makes it possible to tackle many crossborder problems through a joint strategy: the commission has also proposed to the council that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of certain dangerous substances.
‒ a positive strategy, which includes the protection of biodiversity, the use of natural resources and the protection of the environment and our forests, thus countering hydrogeological disruption and climate change.
forests must and will be at the heart of environmental issues, because they will provide not only energy but also employment over time.
‒ the measure under consideration draws attention to the forestry sector and to wood as a sustainable raw material and resource for europe.
since many eu policies, such as energy, environment and climate, also affect forest management, it is important that the new eu forest strategy aims to better coordinate individual policies and avoid imposing bureaucratic obstacles on forest owners over 50% of europe's forest assets are privately owned and forestry operators.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because it aims to further strengthen the economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector and to draw attention to wood as a sustainable raw material and an important resource for europe.
i believe that it is necessary to ensure that forest resources and wood materials are used efficiently, both as a source of reducing the eu's trade deficit, improving the eu's self-sufficiency in timber and boosting the competitiveness of the forestry sector, and as a contribution to reducing unsustainable forest management, preserving the environment and reducing deforestation in third countries.
whereas, although it is a matter for the member states, there are benefits that the forestry sector can gain from better and more active coordination and a higher positioning of this important economic sector, which provides jobs at european level, particularly in rural areas, while protecting ecosystems and providing ecological benefits for all, without prejudice to the competence of the member states;
in writing.
i believe that the sustainable management of forests and awareness of their multifunctional role from an economic, social and environmental point of view are of paramount importance.
i also believe that a society based on the bioeconomy is also a benefit for human health, the environment and climate protection, and that the safeguarding and care of forests is an essential prerequisite for its realisation.
the resolution stresses the importance of ensuring the sustainable management of forests, which have always been a fundamental element of any ecosystem, a source of biodiversity and wealth.
the resolution stresses the importance of forest areas not only for rural development but also for the environment, biodiversity, forest industries and trade in forest products, bioenergy and the fight against climate change.
the resolution also stresses the importance of sustainable management of forests, which play an important role in achieving eu socio-political objectives such as the energy transition, combating global warming and achieving the europe 2020 and biodiversity objectives.
‒ the new eu forest strategy will focus on managing forests in a more sustainable way.
the new strategy will promote the sustainable use of wood and other forestry materials without adding red tape to forestry operators.
european forests are ecosystems on which essential services depend for the protection of terrestrial biodiversity and the human species itself.
in order to be able to combine different, but not necessarily divergent, needs, it is necessary to ensure that european forests are managed in a conscious and sustainable manner in the short, medium and long term.
‒ i voted in favour of the köstinger report because it further strengthens the social, economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector.
however, it is also important at european level to promote a strategy for managing forests as ecosystems to be protected, also in the context of the protection and enhancement of the cultural and natural heritage and the promotion of sustainable ecotourism.
‒ i have decided to abstain from voting on this resolution because, while i share the general approach, in particular the focus on the protective role of forests in preventing environmental disasters and the recognition of the importance of sustainable forest management and the coordination of national policies in this regard, i believe it is of paramount importance that forest management be viewed from the perspective of environmental and social protection, placing these interests above the logic of profit.
therefore, an appropriate forestry strategy should invest in research to make the most of the potential of forests to safeguard the environment, in improving the training of workers to make the workforce more aware and informed, in adopting a system of protection for small local producers.
mr köstinger has given us a very important report, which welcomes the commission's communication on a new european forestry strategy, stressing that it should focus on sustainable forest management and its multifunctional role in economic, social, environmental and energy terms.
this is the most appropriate framework within which to proceed with the development of this sector, which is so strategic for europe's environmental and cultural heritage.
forests guarantee a high quality of life, environmental protection and air quality and represent a great economic added value.
the forestry sector, with over 3.5 million people employed, is the third largest sector in europe in terms of employment and has a triple function: ecological, economic and social.
i agree with the importance of sustainable management of forests, whose resources, such as wood, are vital to rural areas and must be diligently managed to preserve them for future generations.
it is therefore essential that member states implement national policies for sustainable forest management in order to respond to daily challenges such as forest fires, climate change, natural disasters and tree diseases.
these policies should look at the multiple possibilities for the development of the green economy through forests, such as the processing of textile fibres, the bioeconomy, renewable energy and biofuels, and support research and innovation in this area.
secondly, the need to safeguard the ecosystem.
forests thus play an ecological, economic and social role, although they are less and less known.
i voted in favour of the report by mr köstinger, as it seeks to strengthen the social, economic and ecological role of forests and to emphasise the importance of wood as a sustainable raw material.
forestry occupies 40% of the eu's land area, playing a very important multifunctional role, and forest biomass is the main source of renewable energy, accounting for around half of the total renewable energy consumption in the eu.
wood is indeed an important resource for the european union, both as a renewable resource and as a raw material with potential for development.
it should also be borne in mind that forest biomass is a very important source of renewable energy, as european forests absorb around 10% of the eu's carbon emissions, and that managed forests have a higher effective capacity than unmanaged forests.
‒ european forests currently absorb and store about 10% of the carbon emissions from the eu member states.
it is therefore a priority to ensure sustainable management of forest biomass, given that it is an important source of renewable energy.
i voted in favour of the köstinger report, which refers to the need to adopt a forestry strategy at eu level focusing on the sustainable management of forests and their multifunctional role in economic, social and environmental terms, as i believe that greater coordination of european policies directly or indirectly linked to forestry is desirable.
with the adoption of this report we intend to further strengthen the social, economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector and to draw attention to wood as a sustainable raw material and an important resource for europe.
as many of the european union's policies, such as energy, environment and climate, also concern forest management, we believe it is essential that the new eu forestry strategy should focus on better coordination, so that forestry and forests are better integrated into the individual european strategies and a more coherent approach is followed.
research and technological development will enable the full potential of innovation and development in the bioeconomy to be exploited, promoting the sustainable use of raw materials and providing a significant service to environmental and climate protection.
‒ the current eu forestry strategy dates back to 1998. based on cooperation between the eu and the member states (subsidiarity and co-responsibility), it has established a framework of actions targeted at forests, in support of sustainable forest management.
the new strategy aims to create a policy framework that promotes forest coordination and the creation of synergies with other sectors that affect forest management, including rural development, business, environment, bioenergy, climate change, and research and development.
at the same time, as a related initiative, the commission also proposed an action plan to draw attention to wood as a sustainable raw material and an important resource for europe.
in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the report because it highlights the need for a holistic approach, recalling the importance of forests not only for rural development but also for the environment and biodiversity, for forestry industries, bioenergy and the fight against climate change.
‒ whereas the european union has no competence in the formulation of a common forestry policy, but whereas certain union policies may have implications for national forestry policies, while it is for the member states to decide on the policy to be followed with regard to forestry and forests; whereas wood is a renewable and often under-utilized resource in europe and whereas it is necessary to ensure the intelligent and sustainable use of this raw material, including through the development and exchange of know-how; i therefore voted in favour.
of course, sustainable forest management must be exercised if forest resources are to be conserved and the social, economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector is to be enhanced.
furthermore, with the further development of the bio-economy and the sustainable use of raw materials, there would be significant environmental and climate protection.
that is why i voted in favour of the new eu forestry strategy, which aims at sustainable management of forests, highlighting their multifunctional role from an economic, social and environmental point of view.
forests and forest industries offer valid answers for a new pillar of the economy, as well as being the best guarantors of a good quality of life, sustainability, jobs and value creation.
‒ the report adopted today has the merit of drawing attention to the importance of forests for the european union and their economic, social and environmental role: 16 million forest owners, 3.5 million employees, 451 820 enterprises representing 7% of the eu's manufacturing sector gdp are figures that give us an idea of the high value of the european forestry sector.
‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on the new eu forestry strategy, which stresses the importance of sustainable management and the socioeconomic value of the forestry sector.
from the point of view of energy and environmental policies, smart forest management could contribute to the objectives of energy transition and climate change adaptation, through both the capacity to absorb co2 and the efficient use of wood as a renewable and versatile raw material.
the resolution also calls for urgent clarification of the greenhouse effects caused by the different uses of forest biomass for energy production and for identification of those uses which can produce the greatest benefits in terms of mitigation within the timeframe provided for by relevant policies.
‒ i am voting in favour of the new strategy for safeguarding and protecting our forest heritage because europe must make a big ecological footprint of environmental sustainability.
not to phase it out (less concrete, more sustainability), but to use it as a resource for the community and as a possibility for the future: from clean energy to heritage conservation.
competences allowing for effective action and avoiding overlaps with other member states; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinions on discharge on behalf of the committee on the environment, i would like to make a brief comment on the annual discharge for the 2013 budget of the five agencies under our responsibility.
we particularly wanted to stress that we were pleased that the european environment agency had a comprehensive strategy for the management and prevention of conflicts of interest.
the recent tragedies in the mediterranean, the capsized boats and the drowned refugees have been a waste of words and statements.
all areas of operational expenditure contributed to this increase, but the agricultural policy group remains the most error-prone, but in a marked improvement over the past, followed by the regional policy, energy and transport group with an estimated error rate of 6.9%.
the report analyses in detail the situation of the various sectoral policies where critical issues have been identified: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme, in particular in the areas of agriculture, regional policy, energy and transport, external relations, employment and social affairs, with a particular focus on the member states where the most critical problems have been identified.
the european union has no money to waste.
the agriculture policy group continues to be the most error prone, followed by the regional, energy and transport policy group with an estimated error rate of 6.9%.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in particular, i share the call for strengthening the professionalism and administrative capacity of local government, which are fundamental prerequisites for the effective implementation of reforms and for an efficient and sustainable management of public finances.
i join the call for a more serious effort to combat drug trafficking in the balkans, also in cooperation with the european police authorities, and the hope that we will soon achieve full respect for fundamental rights such as freedom of the press and the establishment of a climate of peaceful coexistence between the various religious professions.
this agreement will create a new climate for their economic relations and, above all, for the development of trade and investment, which are essential factors in economic restructuring and modernization.
‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu agency.
i have expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators as positive.
the stabilisation and association agreement signed in 2001 between the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, on the one hand, and the european communities and their member states, on the other, was the first to be ratified by all member states, and entered into force on 1 april 2004, paving the way for europe's opening up to the balkans: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
horizontal aid is intended to achieve objectives common to several production sectors, such as environmental aid, aid for research and technological development, aid for smes.
this is a serious waste which could be remedied by greater transparency on the part of the member states cooperating with the commission.
‒ i voted against the discharge decision because the court of auditors' audits indicate problems with the transparency of the fund's management and important room for improvement in reducing waste.
i declare my vote in favour of the statement by ms martina dlabajová, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. i would also like to stress and remind, as my colleague has pointed out, that the objective set by the cotonou agreement is to eradicate poverty, in line with the sustainable development objectives, and that therefore good management of the european development fund (edf) is essential to ensure that development cooperation policies are commensurate with the overall role the eu aspires to play.
‒ i agree with the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013. the main objective is to reduce and ultimately eliminate poverty, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp and octs into the world economy.
all edf activities must follow strategic and priority areas based on the choices made and on criteria of economic and financial efficiency, taking into account the inherent risk in developing countries due to the unstable geopolitical environment.
the commission must therefore monitor the performance and sustainability of the results and push for the development of an independent national audit body before granting budget support.
the request for more detailed information on certain aspects, as well as the publication of this information online, will help to avoid waste of public money, further ensure fairness and improve the transparency of expenditure.
‒ i vote against the discharge as the report highlights some key issues in the financial management of the european parliament: - lack of transparency in information both at general level and in the documentation submitted by members - problems in the management of the grant scheme for visitor groups - costs of delegations, joint parliamentary assemblies, ad hoc delegations and election observation missions outside the union - costs and performance of europarl tv and the lux prize - problems in the remuneration of apas - importance of establishing appropriate measures to ensure the sustainability of parliament's buildings in the face of the increase in maintenance costs - security problems of parliament - demands for an environmentally friendly parliament
in writing.
and although the legal issue is still 'unclear', my decision is mainly about the fact that not only does the council not recognise the role of parliament as the final rapporteur for discharge and therefore refuses to answer parliament's questionnaire on the reporting of expenditure, but above all the council is thus denying european citizens access to data showing that their money has been spent correctly and without waste.
‒ i abstain from the vote on the granting of discharge to the court of justice because, although this institution is sustainable in terms of the basic services it provides to citizens, i do not agree with the costs of translating it.
‒ i abstain from the vote on the granting of discharge to the court of auditors because, although this institution is sustainable in terms of the basic services it provides to citizens, i do not agree with the translation costs of the same
in writing.
‒ i abstain from the vote on granting the ombudsman discharge because, although this institution is sustainable in terms of the basic services it provides to citizens, i do not agree with the translation costs of it.
‒ the report highlights a general situation of inefficiency in the agency for cooperation between national energy regulators, which is why i did not intend to vote in favour of granting discharge.
‒ considering that the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting the discharge to acer.
‒ i voted in favour of this discharge because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
‒ in the light of the court of auditors' conclusions, which in its analysis gave a positive assessment of the reliability and regularity of the financial operations of the agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators, i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ i am voting against the discharge to be given to the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators as it showed reliability of accounts and the legitimacy and regularity of the budget.
i support the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, which has already been approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge for the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer), which assists and coordinates at community level the national authorities of the member states of the union which regulate energy markets.
‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) assesses the performance, financial management and control issues of the eu agency.
i have expressed my favourable opinion, in line with my political group, as i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators as positive.
‒ the agency for the cooperation of national energy regulators implemented a number of measures for the financial year 2013 to ensure improved budget planning procedures.
‒ i voted in favour of the report in question, which specifically concerns the discharge to be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013. the measures relating to the recommendations on the agency's recruitment procedures were formalised by the adoption of decision 2014-06 of its director of 4 april 2014. the agency also implemented a number of measures to improve budget planning procedures by developing and implementing a set of guidelines for use by the actors involved in the process and carried out regular forecasting and audit exercises on the use of appropriations, including monthly monitoring and reporting on the implementation of the budget.
‒ having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0214/2014), whereas the entire budget of the agency comes from the union budget; whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 ('the court's report'), has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular; i therefore voted in favour.
‒ the accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 also appear to be in order.
‒ i have decided to vote to give a discharge to acer, the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, which is responsible for the proper functioning of the single european gas and electricity market.
‒ although the report does not raise any particular criticisms of berec's financial management, it lacks any substantive assessment of the work carried out, which is essential for judging the sustainability and economic management of the berec, and for these reasons i did not support the granting of the discharge.
‒ whereas the echa regulatory authority plays a key role in the implementation of european chemicals legislation in order to protect human health and the environment.
this vote is a testament to the remarkable work of echa, which is the driving force behind the implementation of european chemical standards to protect human health and the environment.
‒ i do not share the positions taken in the czarnecki report, for which i voted against the granting of discharge to the european environment agency.
‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013. having noted that the final annual accounts of the european environment agency are set out in the annex to the court of auditors' report, i have approved the discharge to be given to the director of the european environment agency on the following grounds: - on financial and budgetary management, i note that the budgetary control efforts undertaken during the financial year 2013 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,66%; - also notes that in 2013, the agency's expenditure budget was mostly financed by union contributions; - on procurement and recruitment procedures, i learn from the agency that it has drawn up a multiannual staff policy plan for the period 2013-2015, in line with the commission's guidelines, which has been approved by its management board; - on internal audit, i note that its internal audit structure finalised the audit report on the management of specific appropriations with a view to assessing the overall impact on the agency of projects financed by external assigned revenue.
‒ whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the eea.
in addition, the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
for these reasons i voted in favour of the discharge for the european environment agency.
‒ the climate challenge is high on the agenda of the european institutions and in this context the environment agency's mission is of particular importance, as it aims to provide scientific information for the definition of european environmental policies.
‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european environment agency (eea) on data transparency issues, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement and payment procedures.
‒ i voted in favour of the 2013 discharge of the european environment agency as it showed the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the budget.
i declare my vote in favour of the statement by mr ryszard czarnecki, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea).
i agree with my colleague, who appreciates the monitoring work throughout the union and the useful promotion of environmental protection.
the european environment agency (eea) has become a key source of information for those involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policies.
‒ the 2013 discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) assesses the issues related to the performance, financial management and control of the eu agency.
i voted in favour, in line with my group, because i regarded the cost monitoring and evaluation studies of the european environment agency (eea) as positive.
‒ in its report on the annual budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, the court of auditors stated that it had sufficient information to be able to give a positive assessment of the financial activity carried out by the agency.
‒ considering that the court, in its report on the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i have decided to support the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, to grant discharge.
in this respect, i welcome the fact that two ad-level posts were added to the establishment plan in 2013 to cover new tasks related to two important themes: the mitigation of climate change and the communication of air quality information.
i also welcome the fact that, according to the court of auditors, the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 are, in all material respects, legal and regular.
‒ ladies and gentlemen,whereas, according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european environment agency (hereinafter referred to as 'the agency') for the financial year 2013 was eur 49.270.722, representing an increase of 18.16% compared to 2012; whereas this increase is largely linked to operational expenditure on strategic actions; whereas, according to its financial statements, the union contribution to the agency's budget for 2013 amounted to eur 34,886,367, representing a decrease of 1,35% compared to 2012; whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 ('the court's report'), has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, that is why i voted in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the eea for the 2013 budget, not only because the agency plays a key role in environmental matters, providing independent information for those involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policies and for the general public, but also because of its efficiency in the allocation of resources in budgetary matters, as reported by the committee on budgetary control and the european court of auditors.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the budget of the european medicines agency, taking into account the court of auditors' report attesting to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the operations concerned, the council's recommendation to that effect and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i voted in favour because i think it is important to support the role of the agency in ensuring a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety, prevention of pollution from ships and response to such pollution in the european union.
it ensures a high level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution caused by ships in the european union.
finally, i express my sincere appreciation for the progress made in developing a reform of vocational education and training based on empirical evidence through the turin process and other types of specific policy analysis, which have been taken up by partner countries, leading to national policy developments that help to ensure future sustainability.
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european atomic energy agency (euratom) for the financial year 2013, which stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of granting discharge to euratom.
euratom operates in areas related to atomic energy such as research, the development of safety standards and, in particular, the peaceful use of nuclear energy, ensuring in a transparent manner the regular and fair supply of minerals within the european union.
the risk is that there is a waste of funds.
we will try to ensure that in future the waste is reduced in an incremental way.
europol shall be responsible for the fight against serious crime and terrorism; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
‒ unfortunately, the landfill procedures once again highlight the inefficiencies of the system, which result in a significant waste of resources.
we can't afford to waste or lose any resources.
my vote also takes into account the company's work in developing key technologies for embedded information systems in various fields of application, in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and new social applications.
i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge to the clean sky joint undertaking, a public private partnership between the european commission and the aviation industry, which aims to reduce the environmental impact of aviation.
‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013. the joint undertaking, through the proper management of its funding, has ensured the improvement of the system for monitoring the research results of its projects and has contributed to the implementation of the seventh framework programme on energy.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 budget of the fuel and hydrogen cells enterprise, a european-wide public-private partnership on key technologies, to enable europe to meet its 2020 energy and climate targets.
‒ i supported the vistisen report which does not grant discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, as the court of auditors' inquiry shows a significant risk of increased appropriations and expenditure to support projects currently scheduled and which will not be able to meet the expected timetable.
‒ considering that the court has stated that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013 and the related transactions reflect the financial position, but that there are nonetheless negative elements in its statement of assurance, i have voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the undertaking.
‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge procedure for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013, on the grounds of the correct use of the financial resources.
‒ i am voting against the granting of discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for problems of data transparency, conflicts of interest, weaknesses in procurement procedures and payment procedures.
i vote in favour of the report by mr anders primdahl vistisen, already approved by the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge report for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
fusion energy is, along with renewable energy and fission energy, one of the three alternatives to fossil fuels.
‒ the court of auditors' report on the implementation of the 2013 budget by the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy did not highlight any particular inconsistencies in the management of community funding by the joint undertaking.
‒ in view of the court of auditors' report on the annual budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013, and the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by that joint undertaking, i have decided to vote against the request of the rapporteur, mr czarnecki, not to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i cannot agree with the need to pursue structural and organisational reforms to improve the efficiency, environmental sustainability and effectiveness of parliament.
in particular, the change from three seats (brussels, strasbourg, luxembourg) to one seat would ensure significant savings while avoiding the unnecessary pollution resulting from the movement of parliamentary activity from brussels to strasbourg once a month.
if some budget lines need to be increased, funds should be sought in other expenditure lines where it is possible to cut waste.
the climate of violence, terror and intimidation which is driving thousands of people to the borders of rwanda to flee a possible new ethnic conflict in burundi is a matter of great concern to us.
the systematic and deliberate destruction of artifacts, works of art and places of worship is complementary to the persecution against individuals and communities: the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the maldives was then on the front line of climate change, and that too was forgotten.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not easy to analyse the situation of an entire country with all these difficulties in just one minute, but i should like first of all to thank mr fleckenstein for the excellent work he has done in this report and, in order not to repeat what others have said before, i would also like to dwell on the serious problem of the public medical and hospital facilities in the country and the sanitary situation, which unfortunately still presents a rather critical situation because of the sewerage and water systems and the inadequate functioning of the waste disposal system.
to fail to achieve this and not to reaffirm it this year, the european year of development, the year of the third international conference on financing for development, the year in which we are redrawing the new sustainable development goals, and in the days when we are discussing, among other things, how to deal also in the long term with the root causes of the great migration flows, such as poverty and inequality, would be a severe blow to the union's credibility, it would be inexplicable.
however, almost half of the member states will not achieve their national targets on education, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and reducing unemployment and poverty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, tomorrow in milan the 2015 world expo will officially open, with the theme 'feeding the planet, energy for life'.
food security is a matter of concern to all of us, and we cannot escape this global challenge which is affecting our agricultural and environmental policy, research, international trade and development policies.
i would remind you that this parliament, in the last parliament, already made a strong statement with a resolution against food waste and in favour of mandatory targets to reduce it.
we call for an effort to encourage the search for innovative agronomic practices that improve yields while reducing environmental impact.
we need to set ambitious and binding targets to tackle food waste at every level of the food chain, from the field to the table.
we need to increase transparency and fairness in the agri-food chain so that it can become truly sustainable and food secure.
at the international level, we must do more as the european union to promote sustainable agriculture in developing countries and to combat land grabbing, namely the unregulated taking of land, particularly in africa.
we need a strong and sustainable agricultural sector within the union, a development policy that is attentive to world agriculture, we need to fight against food waste and do more research and innovation, but above all, we want the european union to be the protagonist and leader of a global food policy.
the expo 2015 is a unique opportunity for the european union to strengthen its commitment to a more sustainable future.
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission welcomes the opportunity created by expo 2015 for an open debate on the global challenges related to food waste, sustainable agriculture and the need to fight hunger and eradicate obesity.
we wish to reiterate our commitment to implementing eu policies and legislation to support sustainable food systems in close cooperation with the stakeholders, member states and the european parliament.
the principles of sustainability and producing more from less are well embedded in the long-term objectives of the common agricultural policy.
concerning the point of the scarcity of natural resources in the 7th environment action programme to 2020, the european union is committed to protect, conserve and enhance the union’s natural capital.
eu environment policy, and in particular the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020, the eu soil thematic strategy and eu legislation for the protection of water, air and natural habitats and species, aim at protecting, conserving and enhancing those natural resources to secure the provision of sustainable and healthy food production in the european union.
in addition, sustainable food security is one of the major cross-cutting focus areas identified for research under the horizon 2020 work programme to continue until 2017. the commission is currently preparing an ambitious work programme and call for proposals on sustainable food security that aim to build more resilient and resource-efficient production and value chains.
the european innovation partnership for agricultural productivity and sustainability is supported by the common agricultural policy and aims at closing the gap between research and practice.
since 2012, the european commission has worked actively to identify the best possible action to take at eu level to fight food waste without compromising on food safety.
the commission is committed to supporting the member states and stakeholders in their efforts to reduce food waste by helping to lift any obstacles and by promoting the sharing of best practice and transfer of knowledge and experience.
at expo 2015, the commission will organise a conference dedicated to food waste prevention, focusing in particular on the importance of an effective intersectoral cooperation.
the commission is committed to supporting the member states and stakeholders in strengthening resource efficiency in the food chain to prevent and reduce food waste from farm to fork.
feeding the planet, energy for life is indeed a central challenge of our time.
providing people with enough healthy food and at the same time sustainable agriculture is one of the most fundamental challenges we face today.
we spend around eur 55 billion a year on sustainable food production under our common agricultural policy.
europe must mobilize because in a world which can provide food for all, not everyone has food, and with these priorities it must fight against waste, defend agricultural land, spread healthy food education; with the principle of sustainability we will ultimately safeguard the very survival of the earth.
we must of course insist on information and communication, promote healthy lifestyles, support a coherent and respectful agri-food chain, a chain which must see producers, distributors and consumers working together because consumers who are aware of the quality of their food and the environmental impact of their production will make a difference.
we must dare to discuss seriously the issues of inequality in the distribution of resources, which leads to malnutrition on the one hand and obesity and food waste on the other, the relations between the north and the south of the world, we have spoken a lot about this in recent days, the fact that politics must take back the direction that is too often left in the hands of the multinationals, the creation of an ever stronger pact between producers, distributors and consumers, the defence of biodiversity as a priority to guarantee a future without hunger for all.
as members of our group on the committee on fisheries, we also wanted to stress the sustainability of fish harvesting and farming and the need to combat overfishing and illegal fishing globally.
it designs scenarios of sustainable economies and exploits the underpaid or free work of thousands of young people.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the pollution of the sea.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, expo milano will not only be an extraordinary showcase for italy and europe, but also an opportunity to address vital issues such as the fight against food waste, such as food education focused on balanced and balanced diets and lifestyles, because we have heard that malnutrition does not only come from the lack of food which unfortunately still causes millions of deaths, but also from the abundance of food.
to make food, we need land, water and energy.
we want to work for water, which must be part of the objectives of cooperation, and for energy, which must be available and accessible.
i believe that the commission should promote a culture of prevention around the role of food, to curb the increase in obesity, and at the same time, in order to reduce the unacceptable food waste, measures are needed to improve the food chain in terms of resource efficiency, with particular reference to production and distribution, and to encourage businesses and retailers to improve their coordination.
we must produce more while preserving the environment, we must improve the quality of the environment by increasing the overall level of production.
the world population is growing, consumption is increasing, and the type of consumption is also increasing, with much higher consumption in terms of agricultural production, and this is bringing with it a great deal of environmental pressure.
but i wanted to ask a question in essence: but since we always talk about sustainable agriculture, for example when we go and ask for an orange tree (i went to the bar earlier for an orange tree) but there is not even an orange inside an orange tree, that is, if we want sustainable agriculture we must also make sure that the fruits, instead of being destroyed as happens very often around the world and also in italy, are used instead to produce exactly what is needed.
the common agricultural policy, for example, provides a comprehensive and inclusive support framework for the sustainable production of food.
as already explained in my opening remarks, the commission is committed to supporting member states and stakeholders in strengthening resource efficiency in the food chain and preventing and reducing food waste from farm to fork.
several unknowns remain about expo, starting with how well it will be able to respond to the "real" theme, namely to chart a path for a sustainable response to the theme of food supply, towards which innovation is urgently needed from the agricultural and agro-industrial supply chain.
the spread of the quarantine pathogen xylella fastidiosa, subspecies pauca, is endangering apulian olive growing and has dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences.
the commission's decision also takes strict measures which, while avoiding total eradication in the already infected area, which would not only be unnecessary but above all dramatic for an entire territory, its landscape, its economy and its rural environment, on the other hand, in order to block new outbreaks, it also requires, in compliance with international standards on quarantine pathogens, the eradication of certain healthy plants outside the aforementioned infected area (i.e.
i think that the commissioner has no idea what the material, symbolic and cultural consequences of the decision that has been taken will be on the landscape, the ecosystem and the lives of thousands of women and men.
efsa has made it clear that the possible causes must be investigated, that eradication is not the answer, that pesticides would be devastating to the ecosystem.
it is a decision that has not been shared but has been made from above and that does not take into account the consequences for the environment and the health of the population.
at a particular time of economic crisis, it seems to us that the attention of politics and institutions towards two sectors - agriculture and the tourist industry - which must continue to be the driving force in the direction of a vision of growth that europe wants to be sustainable from an environmental and social point of view, is not irrelevant.
i therefore ask the commission to mobilise all the resources necessary to compensate olive-growers not only for the damage they have suffered and the loss of profits, but also for the community and for the environmental, cultural and tourist damage.
i think that this decision should be better assessed, taking into account the olive-growing, environmental and economic heritage of puglia.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is an ecological and economic disaster.
the size is particularly worrying in terms of economic, environmental and social consequences.
fortunately, the days of drinking wine or beer as a real food and energy supplement to poor diets are long gone.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the collapse of the rana plaza building was a tragedy and it shows us that much has to be done in order to ensure that workers all over the world are able to work in a safe environment without risking their lives every day on the job.
‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution on the 'second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and the state of the sustainability pact' so that tragedies such as the iconic rana plaza, which claimed the lives of 1 138 people, will not happen again.
although the bangladesh government is not yet in line with international safety standards, some significant progress has been made thanks to the eu sustainability compact, which aims to ensure respect for workers' rights as well as to promote responsible business behaviour in the bangladesh packaging industry.
this exploitation of the workers had one purpose: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
i hope that bangladesh and its workers will find an ever easier path towards a sustainable economy and production that respects human dignity, as clearly outlined in the guidelines of the global compact and those of the johannesburg declaration of the united nations.
we must always remember and emphasize the serious negligence and the complicated working environment that caused such a tragedy, with the awareness, unfortunately, that the conditions of that time have not changed.
the geneva compact is a response to the rana plaza tragedy, but i agree with the commission that we need to support improvements in the implementation and development of the sustainability compact, a targeted programme for the labour market in bangladesh promoted and sponsored by the eu, the us and the ilo.
‒ we support this resolution so that the european commission and companies monitor the implementation of the sustainability agreement in bangladesh and continue to work to improve the situation of workers in that country.
the bangladesh sustainability agreement between the eu, bangladesh, the us and the ilo includes short and long-term commitments on three pillars: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the european union's environmental policy.
the resolution also calls for a review of progress on the sustainability compact, a joint initiative to improve working conditions, health and safety in bangladesh's garment factories, launched by the eu commission on 8 july 2013. signed in geneva by the commission, the government of bangladesh, the international labour organisation (ilo), representatives of bangladesh's textile producers and the main european clothing importers, the pact is a response to the tragedy of the rana plaza collapse.
i also welcome the initiative to launch the sustainability pact, to ensure a new start in the field of health and safety at work, working conditions and respect for workers' rights, and to promote responsible business behaviour in the packaging industry in bangladesh.
'working towards a political culture' involves a professional public administration, effective enforcement of the public employment law, increased efficiency, transparency, accountability and financial sustainability.
there are certainly many issues to be tackled, such as the environment and the diversification of energy sources, which are vital to economic development and to greater transparency, especially in the management of public finances.
we believe that eu accession is an inclusive process that belongs to the whole country and all its citizens, and therefore we wish for a constructive and sustainable political dialogue on eu-related reforms, conducted in a spirit of cooperation and compromise between the main political forces.
the resolution also calls for a climate of religious tolerance and good inter-ethnic relations and encourages albania to ensure a more professional and friendly working environment for journalists.
‒ i voted in favour of the 2014 progress report on albania because i want to give a signal of support to albania's european integration process, stressing the need for a reform of the public administration for the implementation of all other reforms and also wishing for a climate of religious tolerance and good inter-ethnic relations in order to encourage this country to ensure a more professional and flexible working environment for journalists.
like the rapporteur, i believe that the eu's increased commitment should also focus on socioeconomic issues, the business environment and the participation of society in the reform process.
unfortunately, we must once again note that progress in the implementation of a sustainable and functional institutional system remains insufficient and limited.
this political climate has produced limited results in the reform of the public administration and the judicial sector, where corruption affects entire public sectors and the fight against organised crime is weak.
the report stressed that all possible resources from member states and the eu, including those of the eib, must be mobilised efficiently and without delay to encourage and incentivise public and private investment, promote competitiveness, restore sustainable and inclusive growth and stimulate the creation of quality jobs and infrastructure in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
the report also welcomes the considerations of the eib, which should continue to play the key role of catalyst for financing sound long-term public and private investment, but which should not be an alternative to structural reforms and economic policy geared to sustainable growth and job creation, which the member states must pursue.
i voted in favour of the urtasun report because i share the view that the financing instruments implemented by the eib are not an alternative to structural reforms aimed at sustainable growth and job creation.
we call for its resources to be mobilised to encourage and incentivise public and private investment, promote competitiveness, restore sustainable and inclusive growth and stimulate the creation of quality employment in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
‒ whereas all possible resources from the member states and the eu, including those of the eib, must be mobilised efficiently and without delay to encourage and incentivise public and private investment, promote competitiveness, restore sustainable and inclusive growth and stimulate the creation of quality employment and infrastructure in line with the europe 2020 strategy, and whereas the eib is an instrument designed to support social cohesion and is able to provide valuable assistance to member states in difficulty in the current critical social and economic situation that needs to be addressed; i would therefore vote in favour of the commission's proposal, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and i would also like to ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a way that is consistent with the principles of subsidiarity and transparency.
‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution 'expo milano 2015: feeding the planet, energy for life'.
i voted to send a strong message that raises awareness of the urgent need to solve the problems of food distribution and consumption, to tackle food waste and to fight malnutrition.
i hope therefore that the position of parliament expressed in this resolution and the very strong reach of expo 2015 will really contribute to change in a world where hunger and waste coexist, where the production of biofuels and feed does not take into account water and food scarcity, and where obesity and malnutrition go hand in hand.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on expo 2015, which among other things urges the commission and the member states to use the theme of expo to affirm the right to adequate, healthy, sustainable and informed food.
i did not vote in favour of the expo milano 2015 resolution because those amendments that called for the inclusion of the principles of transparency, sustainability and protection of small agricultural producers in the resolution were not passed.
i voted in favour of those amendments which stress the need to promote a diet which is able to ensure a more rational and sustainable consumption of food resources.
i regret that the amendments which highlighted the scandalous sponsorship of multinational corporations (mcdonald's, coca cola and nestlé ferrero), the main producers of junk food, notorious for not guaranteeing sustainable food, were not adopted.
the expo should be an opportunity to discuss and share best practices in sustainable agriculture and promote small farms.
i also voted in favour of the amendment which includes respect for social and labour rights within the principle of sustainability.
this resolution has the merit of clearly highlighting key challenges in the food sector, such as the need to ensure high standards of food safety, to promote sustainable food practices, and to intervene effectively in the fight against food waste and malnutrition in the world.
there are some serious paradoxes in international agri-food chains today that we have a duty to combat with the ultimate goal of more sustainable and effective management of scarce natural resources and greater transparency, traceability and fairness in the food supply chain.
expo 2015 will be a great showcase for our country and for europe, but above all it will be a platform for meeting and exchanging good practices between countries and a concrete opportunity to make new commitments for greater sustainability, quality and safety of food supply chains.
i voted against the resolution adopted today by the european parliament, because the milan event is born as the highest moment of reflection on the theme of nutrition, but behind the "green" facade of expo the usual logic of profit and exploitation of resources, the environment and people is hidden.
in particular, an important amendment proposed by my group was rejected because it criticised the choice of multinationals as official sponsors of expo, whose policies and products are in clear contrast to the promotion of healthy and sustainable food.
nor has our call on the commission to orient the union's food policies towards forms of greater sustainability along the whole chain, favouring organic and biodynamic production and zero-mile distribution.
it is clear that a resolution of this kind, which does not want to take account of economically and environmentally sustainable production, which does not want to promote local production, which does not oppose multinationals and genetically modified products, the main enemies of our quality food, cannot be supported by the five star movement.
waste has been preferred to sustainability and resource optimization.
it is easy to compare this to the multinational companies that speculate on a globalized food system far from a healthy, balanced and sustainable diet, which contribute to penalizing local economies and small producers in the agri-food sector.
it will be an opportunity to combat food waste and fraud and to promote food education based on a healthy and balanced lifestyle.
i am pleased to support the motion for a resolution on expo milano 2015, which was drafted by my colleague paolo de castro with great competence and expertise, considering the issue of food security and the right to food as mentioned in the universal declaration of human rights in 1948 as a priority and topical issue today as never before, and considering expo milano a great opportunity to inform, promote and reflect on all that is necessary and possible to do, at national and european level, for a better and correct management of resources to combat hunger and malnutrition, deplorable food waste, unemployment and economic recession, through solid support for agriculture and fisheries, key sectors of employment and food security in many areas, especially in developing areas, in the world.
i am sure that the motion for a resolution on expo milano 2015 'feeding the planet, energy for life' represents a great opportunity for italy and europe to re-launch and to enhance its many productive, technological and scientific excellence.
the themes covered are varied: the food production and distribution, the problem of food waste, the protection of biodiversity, the great challenge of sustainability, malnutrition and land grabbing.
‒ expo milano 2015 provides the opportunity for the entire international community to reflect on the big issues related to nutrition, the environment and research.
for these reasons i voted in favour of this text, which calls for the proper and responsible use of food and environmental resources.
the theme 'feeding the planet, energy for life' aims to draw attention, through a series of thematic exhibitions, to food-related culture and traditions, raising the much-needed debate on sustainable global growth based on strengthening food security, preserving biodiversity and combating waste, malnutrition and child mortality.
at the same time as expo, the adoption of the milan charter, an international agreement that aims to combat the problem of environmental sustainability, is a clear example of the fact that the mission of the event will not end on october 31, but that on the contrary expo milano wants to be the beginning of a long journey with high objectives.
‒ considering that the theme of expo milano 2015 is 'feeding the planet, energy for life' and that the event can give a strong impetus to the debate aimed at improving food production and distribution, addressing the problem of food waste, promoting and developing already existing positive approaches to meet the challenge of food insecurity, malnutrition and malnutrition, as well as creating a balance between the availability and consumption of resources, i decided to support the resolution, considering that the fight against malnutrition and ensuring universal access to adequate nutritious food should continue to be a key objective of the post-2015 agenda in the context of the goal of the elimination of hunger, specifically calling for the need to end all forms of malnutrition by 2030.
in writing.
the member states must act on two fronts: introduce measures for more sustainable agriculture and measures to reduce food waste, in order to eradicate hunger and ensure a fair extension of the human right to food.
i voted in favour of this resolution to ask the european commission, the council and all the participating states to use the theme of expo 'feeding the planet, energy for life' to set commitments to uphold the right to adequate, healthy, sustainable and informed food.
i hope that solutions will be found to improve food production and distribution, to reduce waste in the industrialized countries and to consciously address the challenges of food security, malnutrition and the balance between the availability and consumption of resources.
we have therefore asked the european commission to tackle more concretely the problem of food waste, malnutrition and the balance between the food available and its consumption.
that said, there are still a number of unknowns about expo, starting with how well it will be able to address the "real" issue, to chart a path for a sustainable response to the issue of food supply, which urgently needs innovation from the agricultural and agro-industrial supply chain.
i also urge the union to continue to promote and implement sustainable agri-food policies that encourage lower production costs, less food waste, the transfer of technological innovations and efficient use of energy resources.
‒ i did not vote in favour of the resolution on expo milano 2015 because those amendments which called for the inclusion in the resolution of the principles of transparency, sustainability and protection of small farmers were not passed.
i voted in favour of those amendments which stressed the need to promote a diet which is able to ensure a more rational and sustainable consumption of food resources.
i therefore regret that the amendments which highlighted the scandalous sponsorship of multinational corporations (mcdonald's, coca cola and nestlé ferrero), the main producers of junk food, notorious for not guaranteeing sustainable food, were not passed.
the expo should be an opportunity to discuss and share best practices in sustainable agriculture and promote small farms.
i also voted in favour of the amendment which includes respect for social and labour rights within the principle of sustainability.
the amendment proposed by our group, which was initially passed to the committee on agriculture and was withdrawn at the plenary stage, called on the commission to orient eu food policies towards forms of greater sustainability along the whole supply chain, favouring 'zero-kilometre' distribution and organic and biodynamic production.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
‒ i think it is frankly inappropriate that the expo in milan, whose theme is "feeding the planet: energy for life", uses as its sponsor mcdonald's, a company that offends and ridicules the flagship of italian gastronomy and that is certainly not one of the symbols of adequate, healthy, sustainable and informed nutrition promoted by the expo.
the initial project seemed designed to create a widespread and sustainable expo, but unfortunately it was not so: over two million square metres of land and hundreds of kilometres of motorways have been cemented, when i would have expected more renovation and reuse of abandoned buildings, redevelopment of derelict areas and use of existing exhibition spaces.
i think it is appropriate to urge the commission to come forward with policies that ensure the stability and sustainability of agricultural production systems and promote a more efficient use of resources.
in the face of the call for the right principles, such as environmental and social sustainability and the promotion of healthier lifestyles, i regret that parliament has not had the courage to accept my group's proposal to censure the fact that the sponsors of this initiative include, paradoxically, multinational companies such as mcdonald's and coca cola, which are the very expression of the eating habits that we want to correct.
we can do more than just ask european oil companies based in nigeria to respect international standards, to respect the local population and to avoid damaging the environment.
nigeria needs to restore a climate of stability and security and take measures to combat corruption and inefficiency in public institutions, which are one of the main causes of the boko haram outbreak.
the problem with europe is that when we think of algeria, we often think of security and energy, but we forget about human rights.
do you agree with me that this is a just and proper protest and that the people have a right to choose the energy policy of the country?
the aim is to restore a climate of trust.
in september, at the un, we should agree on new sustainable development goals that apply to everyone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has set itself a very ambitious goal: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the environment and the protection of the environment.
i am aware that the right conditions for the eradication of poverty and inequality can be achieved above all by a universal, holistic and integrated approach, including the control and monitoring by the commission of the financing of aid programmes and projects in the fields of health, education, energy, water supply and infrastructure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be voting on an own-initiative report from the european parliament which aims to increase patient safety in health care and to combat with all possible energy the great threat posed by the growth of resistance to antimicrobials.
we are facing a major turning point in africa and other parts of the world: let's not waste this opportunity.
please, let's not waste it on naivete or a false fear of damaging the economy.
building an environment conducive to the creation of new jobs and the revival of the european economy today also requires breaking down the barriers that restrict the digital market on our continent.
but the commission's strategy needs to be strengthened in terms of vision: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
this is an ambitious plan which will create a modern society and will undoubtedly have positive effects not only in terms of better access to digital goods and services in various sectors, such as health, transport and energy, but also in terms of creating the new jobs we so badly need and are really focusing on as the european union.
the precondition for a digital single market for the cultural and creative industries is that the adaptation of certain aspects of copyright goes hand in hand with the revision of the e-commerce directive to define roles, responsibilities, tax regime for over the top, distinguishing between those who are actually competitors and not mere intermediaries, together with the revision of the directive on audiovisual media services and enforcement, to safeguard european cultural biodiversity, which is also competitiveness.
we also have a duty to create a favourable environment for european start-ups, so that they do not find a place to develop only overseas.
the report respects the objective we have set ourselves, in other words to restore a climate of confidence.
i believe that the right conditions for the eradication of poverty and inequality can be achieved above all through a universal, holistic and integrated approach, including the control and monitoring by the commission of the financing of aid programmes and projects in the fields of health, education, energy, water supply and infrastructure.
‒ the report by mr pedro silva pereira will represent the european parliament's position at the third conference on financing for development to be held in addis ababa from 13 to 16 july 2015. this conference will be a key step in supporting the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) as it will have to create the conditions for financing and implementing the so-called post-2015 agenda.
‒ 2015 is a pivotal year for global development efforts, with the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdgs), the global climate action agreement (both valid until 2030), and the third international conference on financing for development, to be held in addis ababa, ethiopia, from 13 to 16 july 2015. the union is the world's largest donor of development aid, providing some 60% of the total.
‒ 2015 is a pivotal year for europe's political leadership in defining a framework for sustainable development and climate action.
the addis ababa conference will be an important contribution to supporting the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
2015 is also the year of the third international conference on financing for development, to be held in addis ababa in july, at which the new sustainable development goals will be defined.
eradicating poverty, ensuring inclusive and sustainable development for present and future generations, and promoting and protecting all human rights are the core values for a peaceful and prosperous society.
‒ the addis ababa conference, to be held in july this year, will be decisive in supporting the implementation of the sustainable development goals.
the report reiterates the commitment to aid: in essence, it calls on the eu to assert its political leadership in defining a framework for sustainable development, committing itself anew and without delay to achieving the 0.7% of gross national income target for development aid.
‒ i am voting in favour of the report because, although it is not particularly innovative or critical of the past, it does provide a shared reference for the sustainable development goals in poor countries.
i would like to stress in particular the two key challenges facing us in 2015: the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the adoption of a global agreement on climate and climate change at cop 21 in paris.
that is why i fully support mr pereira's own-initiative report on financing for development, and i hope that the union will strengthen its commitment to supporting development policies not only through awareness-raising initiatives, the exchange of best practice and support for the important work of ngos, but also through more concrete actions and economic operations such as the transposition by the member states of 'international public financing', a commitment of 0.7% of gross national income to the least developed countries, the creation of a sustainable development table and the promotion of a programme aimed at poverty eradication and the priority objective of access to basic social services for all.
as recognised by the 2005 european consensus on development, there can be no sustainable development without peace and security; nevertheless, after ten years, the number of people still living in poverty, suffering from deprivation in health, education and living standards, especially in fragile states and conflict zones, has remained unchanged.
the report urges the eu and its member states to commit without delay to the target of achieving 0.7% of gni (gross national income) per aps, and to give a boost to the commitments made to provide more, new and additional funding to combat climate change.
it is essential that the eu is a global leader in this area, especially considering that the use of public resources is more sustainable and predictable than ex post assistance.
‒ whereas 2015 is a pivotal year for global development efforts, with the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and a global climate action agreement, both valid until 2030; that 1.5 billion people still live in poverty, suffering from deprivation in health, education and living standards, especially in fragile and conflict-affected states; that this is not acceptable, as there are sufficient resources, worldwide, to gradually end this situation; that, as recognised by the 2005 european consensus on development, there can be no sustainable development without peace and security; i voted in favour.
but i think it is increasingly important to have a holistic and integrated approach to long-term financing, ensuring that the eu is leading the way in defining a framework for sustainable development to be structured together with other actors such as the united nations.
all countries, including high-income, upper-middle-income and emerging economies, must commit themselves to sharing responsibilities, each in proportion to its means, with the common goal of poverty eradication and sustainable development.
i voted in favour because the text, although not particularly innovative, contains mostly shared references to the sustainable development goals in poor countries through development finance.
at european level, the health for growth programme has helped to strengthen coordination between member states to identify innovative solutions to improve the quality, efficiency and sustainability of health systems.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on green growth opportunities for smes, which is an integral part of the circular economy package and an important lever for creating a competitive and sustainable european industrial system.
in order to achieve improvements in resource and energy efficiency, it will also be necessary to promote efficient green technology transfer mechanisms and facilitated access to finance.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is our duty to try to combine economic growth and environmental sustainability to ensure a prosperous future for our continent and our smes.
there's a change that affects all of us, and it's related to a factor that's too often overlooked: the environment.
environmental policy is not the enemy of development and growth, but can be an ally of small and medium-sized enterprises when it is aimed at energy saving, efficient use of resources, rationalization, integration with renewable energy and technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and dependence on oil imports.
new technologies and the reduction of the often burdensome bureaucratic constraints in the sme sector must be coordinated at union level and supported through a european plan: because there can be no real, productive, long-term development today if that development is not also eco-sustainable.
my position on sustainable development is based on the deep conviction that, with the right technological innovations, economic growth and environmental protection can be complementary rather than in conflict.
‒ today i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on green growth opportunities for smes to call for more funding, harmonisation of national regulations, bureaucratic simplifications and effective communication to encourage more environmentally sustainable smes.
at the same time, environmental sustainability is one of our main concerns and a growth opportunity linked to this aspect can only be welcomed.
apart from the need to protect the environment, more efficient management of natural resources also reduces production costs and increases productivity.
the transition to a low-carbon economy is certainly a challenge for society, but it also offers new opportunities for growth and development for smes.
the task of the member states is to create a favourable environment to facilitate their access to research and innovation, not only through ad hoc funding but also by streamlining the bureaucratic process to facilitate the introduction of innovative products on the market.
while there is no internationally agreed definition of green growth, there is consensus that it is a combination of economic growth and environmental sustainability.
the opportunities for smes are linked to several areas such as renewable energy sources, and in particular the economically sustainable exploitation of wind, solar, water and geothermal energy, energy efficiency, waste management, emission reduction and electrification.
i believe that everything parliament does to improve the administrative, regulatory and economic environment in which smes have to operate must be supported.
‒ i supported the report because i share the view that economic growth can go hand in hand with environmental sustainability.
this is a key concept which i believe should be strengthened: environmental sustainability can become a horizontal policy criterion and act as an added value in creating long-term wealth, development and employment.
i would particularly like to stress the importance of the structural funds and the commission programmes (starting with horizon 2020 and cosme), which must work in synergy with the new european fund for strategic investments and be used to the best advantage to promote the competitiveness of smes, in the context of the transition to a low-carbon economy based on recycling and recovery.
businesses need to be enabled to make the best use of available funds by reducing administrative burdens and developing clear support strategies to encourage smes to invest and improve resource and energy efficiency.
repair, maintenance, recycling and ecodesign have great potential to become tools for economic growth, job creation and support in addressing environmental challenges.
the report supports the concept of green growth and circular economy, linked to several areas of considerable relevance such as renewable energy sources, in particular: the widespread and sustainable use of wind, solar and water energy, energy efficiency, resource efficiency, waste management, emission reduction, etc.
‒ i will abstain as we believe in the value of the opportunities smes can have with new technologies, but the report forgets, or rather omits, the negative effects that have been so far in the development of some green energy policies.
the green economy is a great opportunity to achieve the sustainable growth europe 2020 calls for, to create new jobs, to reshape the production system and to protect the planet by mitigating climate change.
conscious of the need and importance of sustainable industrial development, i hope that resource efficiency will be improved, also through cooperation with research institutes, universities and vocational training institutes.
‒ whereas enabling smes to turn environmental challenges into economic opportunities, while acting in a sustainable manner, is one of the principles of the small business act, even though there has been no significant policy progress and although smes often face inconsistent policies when starting an economic activity and implementing environmental standards; that smes' compliance with the growing number of environmental standards will be supported by both the market and the legislation; that the eu and the member states should minimise the administrative burden in new and existing rules and aim to avoid creating additional costs for businesses in relation to compliance with those rules; that new initiatives have been proposed to reduce the regulatory burden on smes and other sectors, which should be implemented by the commission and the member states; i voted in favour.
smes are welcome to accompany economic growth while respecting environmental sustainability.
i have chosen to abstain because, although i consider the protection of the environment to be fundamental, i believe that the growth model advocated by the text in question presents some problems in terms of its feasibility.
to successfully turn environmental challenges into opportunities for economic growth, the union needs to put in place programmes, tools and initiatives to stimulate smes to develop more environmentally friendly products, production processes, business practices and services.
the business environment, however, varies widely from country to country and often from region to region: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
everything parliament does to improve the administrative, regulatory and economic environment in which smes have to operate must be supported.
‒ we have today approved the own-initiative report on green growth opportunities for smes, which calls for more funding, harmonisation of national legislation, bureaucratic simplifications and effective communication to encourage more environmentally sustainable smes.
this is an own-initiative report in response to the commission's communication on the green growth action plan and focuses on financing opportunities, resource efficiency, energy efficiency, the circular economy and industrial synergies.
‒ i welcome today's vote because i believe that the green economy can offer businesses, especially small and medium-sized businesses, significant economic and environmental benefits.
smes need to learn to identify and exploit the green growth opportunities that the market is able to offer today, also considering that the green economy sector and the market for environmental goods and services has not been affected by the crisis that has hit the european economy in recent years.
what concerns me most is not just the seriousness of the allegations, but the gloomy climate that these allegations create, and it is the news of these hours of death threats against a homosexual activist in budapest to whom all my and our solidarity goes.
in this climate, a young italian man, my age, named andrea giuliano, is threatened with death, and even offered a $10,000 reward by a former jobbik mp - these are his friends on the far right - and as if this were normal, he posts it on his website.
the capital markets union project, which the commission adopted recently, also contains a clear reference to the need for modern insolvency regimes as a gateway to a flourishing business and investment climate.
i think it is unacceptable that what is in fact a very hard work should not receive the necessary social security, health and insurance protection, especially if the model we want to pursue is that of caring for the disabled person in a family environment rather than in residential institutions.
this economic waste is compounded by pollution from travel, with 19,000 tonnes of co2 produced each year, as the european union has committed to reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 40% by 2030. i therefore voted against this calendar.
the fact that the agreement contains provisions on other relevant areas of cooperation and development in addition to economic cooperation (such as: social cooperation, based on an organised dialogue focusing on freedom of association; workers' and children's rights; equality between men and women; combating violence against women; environmental cooperation, in particular with regard to climate change; cultural cooperation; cooperation in the fight against drugs and money laundering; cooperation in the field of health, in particular the fight against aids) makes it a good example to be taken into account for other future agreements.
‒ whereas the additional protocol is intended solely to make the few technical and linguistic adjustments to the trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european community and the republic of south africa required by croatia's accession to the eu; whereas the signature of the additional protocol is necessary to enable the republic of croatia to become a contracting party to that agreement; the commission has also taken note of the fact that, in addition to economic cooperation, other provisions refer to a number of very important areas of cooperation linked to development, such as social cooperation, based on an organised dialogue, concerning in particular freedom of association, the rights of workers and minors, equality between men and women, the fight against violence against women, environmental cooperation, in particular with regard to climate change, cultural cooperation, cooperation in the fight against drugs and money laundering and cooperation in health matters, in particular the fight against aids.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the compulsory introduction of such transparency and certification measures throughout the production chain is essential to our fight to protect social and environmental rights and duties.
‒ the european parliament had a major responsibility on the subject of so-called 'conflict minerals': the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
‒ this report is very important because it deals with the establishment at eu level of responsible sourcing practices by companies of minerals and metals from conflict and risk zones, so as to reduce the financing of armed groups in these zones and any serious violations associated with the extraction, transport or trade of these minerals, and therefore their environmental consequences.
the compulsory introduction of such transparency and certification measures throughout the production chain is essential to our fight to protect social and environmental rights and duties.
a secure, transparent and fully legal mineral supply chain is a necessary condition for ensuring full respect for human rights and sustainable development for rare metal producing countries.
i think that, given that cadmium is a highly dangerous toxic substance, extending an existing derogation while granting a new derogation for this substance should be avoided in order to protect the environment and public health.
in addition, according to the information available and the expertise of some independent consultants, given two televisions of the same size, the one equipped with a display system with cadmium-free quantum dots appears to show a lower energy consumption than the model with cadmium-containing quantum dots, and colour rendering tests, compared to the relevant standard, have shown that display systems based on cadmium-free quantum dots allow for equivalent if not better results.
in fact, it can be expected that the properties of cadmium-free quantum dots in terms of energy saving are similar to those of cadmium-containing quantum dots.
the exemption of cadmium, which is argued here, is due to the fact that this material is the basis of quantum dots, a state-of-the-art technology that offers considerable advantages in terms of energy efficiency and colour rendering.
‒ as the europe 2020 strategy underlines, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth cannot be pursued without focusing on achieving the right balance between work and family.
however, this resolution lacks a reference to the right of persons with disabilities to receive care in their own family environment rather than in specialised facilities, and consequently a reference to policies in the member states which recognise the role of the family caregiver as a guarantee of this right.
there is also no willingness to reconsider the proposed measures in the light of the scientific evidence that has been presented so far from various quarters, and by that i mean the exclusion of vines from plants that are potentially host to xylella or the damage to health and the environment due to the use of plant protection products on a large scale.
we are therefore talking about short-sighted measures which will certainly have european consequences because of the social, environmental and economic consequences.
for this reason, as the chief of staff suggested to me in a recent meeting, we have decided to join forces and voice our concerns with the main italian and european farmers' and environmental organizations: i am talking about federbio, i am talking about copagri, the cia, and pan europe.
such unjustified measures, which are in fact designed to protect the environment, add to the damage and require coordinated action by the european institutions.
similarly, avoiding the total eradication of plants from the infected area by implementing less radical measures is of fundamental importance from a social, economic and environmental point of view.
‒ the xylella fastidiosa outbreak, in addition to having dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences, is putting apulia's olive growing at serious risk.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the olive oil sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the xylella fastidiosa epidemic affecting olive trees in apulia, causing serious economic, environmental and social consequences.
the problem cannot and should not be limited to the production of certain crops in southern europe, including olive, almond and peach (as well as ornamental plants), but must be considered a threat that could lead to devastating and unprecedented losses, with major economic, environmental and social consequences for thousands of european citizens.
it is important that the means used to combat the pathogen are proportionate to the objectives, so as to preserve the territory and the environment as much as possible.
‒ the joint resolution was too weak and, in my view, more harmful than helpful to mediterranean biodiversity.
i therefore believe that it is essential to consider alternative solutions which also safeguard the agri-food sector and the environment in the regions concerned.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that turkey is a strategic partner for the european union in economic, geopolitical and energy security terms, but we also know that ankara is not implementing the necessary reforms and lacks an adequate legal framework based on democracy and the rule of law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, any effort by ethiopia to promote economic growth and poverty reduction, to support the development and prosperity that we recognize and applaud, can be seriously undermined if, at the same time, there is no effort to ensure sustainable democratic development.
europe has a duty not to leave citizens and information workers alone, because even so we are helping sustainable development in this country.
meanwhile, in macedonia, we see people marching in the streets, in a climate that is becoming more and more fiery.
this is the europe of waste.
and here's why it loses: europe loses every time it gives up putting political relations first, relations based also on the fight against corruption, money laundering, climate change, every time it becomes resigned and thinks simply of the vile meagre, as some would say.
fighting youth unemployment and ensuring sustainable labour market integration remains a top priority for the eu.
in order to make the recovery sustainable and avoid the risk of falling back into negative growth, it will be essential to invigorate more permanent growth drivers.
vice-chairman of the itre committee i am speaking on behalf of mr buzek, the chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, which is also represented here by other colleagues who will certainly be taking part in the debate, to ask the commission very forcefully for an answer on certain points in the question, which concern significant achievements in our energy policy.
we are all very aware that over the years the need for an eu energy policy has grown, and there is also a legal basis in the treaty of lisbon.
in this sense, parliament has been working on legislation in recent years and we have arrived at the so-called third energy package, which contains very significant rules, a whole series of implementing regulations.
i am thinking in particular of the third energy package.
in particular, the question concerns the implementation of the obligations provided for in the so-called remit (the regulation on the monitoring of the wholesale energy market).
this 2011 regulation provides that from this year onwards acer the european agency which has been entrusted with the task of coordinating national energy regulators will be given the task of monitoring the wholesale market in addition to the tasks it already has as the body coordinating the regulators.
the energy market can be subject to serious irregularities and, given the level of economic interests at stake and the importance of the future energy union, we do not think it wise to be too soft on staff.
and so it would be useful, without spending too much money, to have these people go to work in the energy agency, acer.
but i also wonder: but we want the energy, we want control, why don't we want the russian pipeline?
it 's about energy .
we want to improve energy and then europe is against the russian pipeline.
acer is an agency working on one of the major issues at stake for the future of the european union: we have the big conventional infrastructure networks, namely the ten-t, we have e-tens in the digital market and we have ten-e in the energy market.
in the economic field, the two challenges are: the digital single market and the energy market.
and then, at the end of the fair, you waste time, you make resolutions, which in the end are useless, except to take them to the bathroom, because these things are useless!
‒ the report focuses on crises in the south and east of the union to raise the need for the eu to expand its military role and capabilities: the report also stresses the need for a more effective and effective policy on the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because i believe that the international environment is increasingly unstable and that decisive and decisive action is needed.
‒ we welcome this report, which is necessary given the increasingly volatile and unstable security environment in the eu and its neighbours to the east and south, due to the high number of new and long-standing security challenges, in particular in eastern ukraine, syria and iraq, and the rise of the terrorist organisation isis, the libyan crisis and the terrorist threat in africa (in particular in the sahel, libya and the horn of africa).
‒ whereas the security environment in the eu and its neighbours to the east and south is increasingly unstable and volatile due to the high number of new and long-standing security challenges; whereas the conflict in eastern ukraine, together with the conflicts in syria and iraq, the rise of the terrorist organisation isis, the libyan crisis and the terrorist threat in africa (in particular in the sahel, libya and the horn of africa) pose direct challenges to the security of the union; it is therefore necessary for the union and the member states to assume greater responsibility for their security and defence through coordinated joint action in the framework of the cfsp/csdp; for these reasons i would vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because, in view of the increasingly unstable and volatile security environment in the eu and in the neighbouring countries to the east and south, it is necessary to enable the european union to respond effectively to new security challenges by encouraging its structures and its member states to work together in a joint and genuinely coordinated action in the framework of the cfsp/csdp.
in particular, given the increasingly challenging security environment within and outside the union, characterised by new risks and threats that no member state can address alone, the common security and defence policy (csdp) needs to be strengthened to become a more effective strategic tool and guarantor of the security of eu citizens; the union must also strengthen security at its external borders.
‒ with regard to the measure we have examined on the financing of the common security and defence policy, i consider important the considerations set out in the text on the recognition of the importance of csdp interventions for the achievement of peace, while encouraging the member states of the european union to take a more determined position on conflict prevention, post-war reconstruction and the maintenance of sustainable peace in conflict-affected areas.
‒ we welcome this report, which is necessary as the increasingly challenging security environment for the union, characterised by new risks and threats that no member state can face alone, requires a strengthening of the common security and defence policy (csdp) to make it a more effective strategic instrument and a guarantee of the security of eu citizens and the promotion of european interests and values.
‒ given that the security environment presents increasingly challenging challenges inside and outside the union, characterised by new risks and threats that no member state can address alone, a reinforcement of the common security and defence policy (csdp) is required to make it a more effective strategic instrument and a genuine guarantee of the security of the citizens of the european union and the promotion of european interests and values.
as long as we adopt an austerity model that stifles and denies the rights of millions of our citizens, as long as our foreign trade policy is inconsistent with european principles and values, as long as we do not demand from our partners on climate change that they make concrete commitments, not propaganda bullets and cheap games, and as long as we allow ourselves not only to tolerate but also to encourage financial speculation and tax havens, inside and outside the eu, we will not be the locomotive of the world - as secretary-general ban ki-moon rightly said earlier - but we will be driving it on a dead, rusty track.
the commission, as you know very well, shares parliament’s ambition as far as sustainable development is concerned, as far as ambitious climate change goals are concerned, for paris and beyond.
the central themes of the meeting will be development and economic growth at global level, with a major focus on sustainable development followed by a meeting with the heads of state of african countries.
i remain convinced that the growth-sustainability binomial is the compass for the policies of the european union and its member states, whose relevance is further enhanced by its strategic role and by the growing interconnections with the various international phenomena.
it is enough to consider the socio-economic effects of climate change and its effects on migration flows and people's security.
we therefore look forward to the cop 21 climate change meeting in paris next november, and hope that the work of the forum will strengthen the prospect of an effective global agreement.
world leaders must also commit to sustainable development that leads to greater prosperity, the eradication of extreme poverty and also the promotion of peace and security.
a crucial part of the summit will deal with climate protection and the fight against global warming, but also with the fight against epidemics and improving health systems and standards in supply chains.
i hope, therefore, that the next summit, also with the european union's support, will be able to adopt a precise road map to tackle these issues, also in view of the hoped-for success of the important climate conference in paris next year.
we must do this in schools, which are the environment where, as they say, the adults of tomorrow are formed.
so it is a footprint of sustainability at the european level.
this could help them to start to come closer to issues such as sustainable production and the fight against food waste.
all this, at the same time as expo 2015, whose theme is "feeding the planet, energy for life", emphasizes the role of food traditions, of education to a proper diet to promote new lifestyles, in contrast to new social diseases, such as obesity.
‒ food is at the heart of the public debate, especially in italy, thanks to expo 2015. feeding the planet is also this: we need to ensure that our children have access to the widest possible range of healthy and varied products at school, which is the environment in which children spend most of their time.
another point in the report which i particularly appreciated was the promotion of local production which, by shortening transport and the distribution chain, reduces the ecological footprint and is good for the environment.
school is the best environment to spread this change.
i also appreciate the strong call for the promotion of local production: a healthy diet must be good for the individual but also for the environment.
consuming local produce reduces the environmental impact by shortening transport and the distribution chain.
the sector has been hit hard by the russian embargo and the end of milk quotas and is heavily dependent on unpredictable factors such as the climate, the effects of globalisation and international crises.
china is one of the main beneficiaries of our relative policy, since instead of seeking balance, we have pushed russia, its traditional adversary and now its increasingly close energy partner, into its arms.
and on energy, i would like to say to the rapporteur that when we talk about european resilience, i would remind him that the only possible solution is based not so much on diversification but on a real new deal in renewable energy, which would guarantee our energy independence.
i believe that the european union is moving in two directions: the diplomatic firmness that any partnership is only possible if the russian authorities comply with their international and legal obligations and the awareness of the energy vulnerability and the need to have autonomous resources; a regime of mutual trust based on democracy, territorial sovereignty, respect for human rights and the rule of law should be re-established through dialogue and cooperation; the european union must also develop a strong european energy union, with a free and transparent market and an appropriate share of renewable energy, so that energy is not a key instrument of russian foreign policy.
i am thinking for example of the russian embargo, the end of milk quotas and, more generally, unpredictable factors such as climate and globalisation, which often have a negative impact on the sector.
i hope that this financial instrument will bring benefits to the agricultural sector, which is unfortunately suffering from a number of factors such as the russian embargo, the international crisis and the climate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr siekierski on the adjustment rate for direct payments for the calendar year 2015. specifically, the report provides for a reduction in direct payments through the financial discipline mechanism of 1.393041% in all member states, applicable only to payments exceeding eur 2000. i believe that it is the duty of this parliament, in order to give strong support to the agricultural sector, to adopt effective financial instruments to deal with emergency situations for a sector which is today being put to the test by a number of factors, including the russian embargo and the end of milk quotas, and which is dependent on unforeseeable factors such as climate factors and international crises.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
these are actions that not only help women, but that serve all of us to create a better environment, not just a more equitable one, but a more prosperous one, a richer one.
firstly, this report contains several very different aspects which, in my view, should be dealt with separately because they present different problems: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is also important to use this opportunity for debate to encourage research and innovation, in particular to overcome the problem of access to medicines and the challenge of hydrogeological disruption and global climate change, thus giving us an advantage in solving the major problems of our near future.
the introduction of such measures would not only protect economic interests but also the health and safety of consumers and the environment.
counterfeiting is no longer limited to luxury goods, but also affects everyday goods: toys, medicines, cosmetics and food products, which can be seriously harmful to health and the environment.
protecting our creative and productive capacity is an essential element for growth and economic sustainability in europe.
firstly, i welcome the commission's initiative: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
information and awareness campaigns are essential, but they are not enough: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the introduction of a new system of national and community rules on the protection of the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution by which the european parliament calls for the development of an eu action plan on intellectual property rights (ipr) with the aim of establishing a comprehensive legal framework, adapted to the online environment, to combat ipr infringements within european borders.
the quality of our manufacturing is at risk today and in a global competitive environment it is therefore essential to act effectively to limit the entry into the union market of counterfeit products which harm consumers and the economy.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
in this context, i believe that the union should use all the political, diplomatic and economic instruments at its disposal to reach an international agreement in paris at the end of the year, as comprehensive as possible, also in order to break this long tradition of the european union, which very often takes on all its climate commitments alone.
in particular, i would like to mention the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 40 to 70% by 2050 compared to 2010 levels and the commitment to limit the global temperature increase to 2 degrees celsius, which seem to be important points, and there are others that are important.
we know that several european countries have increased their use of fossil fuels with a high environmental impact, including lignite in particular, in a counter-tendency.
so if this is the scenario in the european union, with lights and shadows, we find on the other side of the ocean obama who seems to give signals that also go in the direction of an effective counter to global warming, at least in the intentions because as we know, the policy of obama in the words of even the last weeks of some distinguished political commentators, the policy of obama in fact, seems to have the weak point precisely on the environment and so i believe that, as concluded the g7 communiqué, the challenge can only be overcome with a global response.
so even if the g7 countries were to eliminate all carbon dioxide emissions tomorrow, the problem of climate change would not be solved.
madam president, commissioner cañete, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are about to discuss concerns the signing by the european union of an agreement between the union and its member states, on the one hand, and iceland, on the other, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the european union and its member states for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
in particular, i would point out that iceland is already a party to annex 1 of the kyoto protocol and has achieved its individual target for the first commitment period, during which it was to limit the increase in emissions to less than 10% on average.
finally, during this period, iceland's emissions decreased on average.
iceland also participates in the european union emissions trading system (ets) and the eu regulation on the mmr monitoring mechanism for greenhouse gases.
in conclusion, i believe that this agreement will be a strong signal, highlighting the coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level, especially in view of the forthcoming cop 21 in paris.
the european union, as mentioned above, is a world leader in the fight against climate change and has always supported an ambitious climate policy.
we are leading internationally and we are leading politically in the fight against climate change, and we need to do that with greater commitment and even more commitment in the run-up to paris, by stepping up efforts for an agreement that is ambitious, comprehensive and legally binding.
in this overall framework of commitments, iceland has so far done its part, it is continuing along the path together with the other 28 states of the european union and for this reason i think it is appropriate, in this context, to invite all colleagues to support this ratification, which supports our european action on climate change and can also contribute with iceland's small contribution to the current international debate on reducing emissions at global level.
the strategies have changed and the words have changed, and they no longer speak of future scenarios, but of current phenomena: it's not just emissions reduction anymore, but also mitigation, adaptation, resilience, transformation.
the ratification of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, which does not present any political problem in its substance, allows us to return to the paris conference with the united nations on climate change.
today, another element on the path to positive involvement of emerging and developing countries is the g7's reaffirmation of the commitment made in copenhagen in 2009 to establish a $100 billion global climate fund.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many of our colleagues have already said that the adoption of this amendment to the kyoto protocol in the run-up to the paris cop is a good sign of commitment to combating climate change, but the decision taken yesterday by the g7 allows us to approach our discussion with cautious optimism.
i want to take this opportunity not only to highlight the importance of reaching a binding global agreement in paris, which is fundamental to the sustainability of our planet, a subject on which we are all already convinced, but also to reiterate how even more important it is to act now to involve the most polluting emerging economies in joining this agreement.
the european union has the opportunity to highlight once again the important efforts it is making to tackle climate change by asserting its leadership at international level, in anticipation of the un climate change conference in paris next autumn.
2015 is a crucial year for giving fresh impetus to the fight against climate change and the recent g7 summit in germany has also given a clear recognition of the need to accelerate on the climate front.
but we must be firmly aware that global warming is an emergency and that, while the path we are on is the right one, speed, ambition and specific action are needed to phase out fossil fuels.
and as i said in my first speech, parliament's decision to approve this amendment and the icelandic process will send an important signal to the international community that the european union remains firmly behind the process of negotiating a new international agreement on climate change under the auspices of the united nations and that we are keeping our commitments, which is especially significant this year, ahead of cop 21 in paris.
the commission welcomes the g7's fundamental commitments to take the necessary measures to ensure that global warming does not exceed 2 °c above pre-industrial levels.
but more specifically, the g7 statement also includes a medium-term reduction target at the top of the intergovernmental panel on climate change recommendation of between 40 and 70%, and a long-term target of 100 per cent emission reduction by 2100. as you all know, the 2050 target is a target which the european union wants to see incorporated into the paris agreement, because this medium-term target will allow us to assess whether our collective efforts are sufficient to avoid a 2°c increase in global temperature and to periodically review the level of our ambitions.
this decision, which is contained in the final joint communiqué, is therefore an important step towards the paris climate summit in december.
the countries that ratified kyoto at the time, the 28 of the european union plus austria, norway, switzerland, iceland, liechtenstein and new zealand, accounted for 14% of emissions.
at present, 37 countries have submitted adaptation and mitigation commitments, representing 30% of global emissions, which suggests that we are on track to have all parties to the convention able to submit mitigation commitments and that these cover 100% of emissions.
it is true that at the moment only the 28 countries of the european union plus switzerland, mexico, russia, liechtenstein, andorra, canada, morocco, norway and the united states have ratified it, but we are already at a 30% emissions level.
the g7 also reiterated the binding nature of the agreement and expressed its determination to provide financial support for the green climate fund and other mechanisms to help the most vulnerable countries.
if we add to this the fact that it was agreed that a world economy free of fossil fuels and the production of clean energy by 2050 would be possible during this century, the overall assessment of the g7 agreements is frankly positive and puts the european union in a very positive negotiating position, especially if, when we arrive in paris, we have already presented - or will present very soon - our new ets system, the european system of emission allowances.
some people want us to introduce it immediately, we are working on it at the moment, but in any case the european union will arrive in paris with a new system of emission allowances in which we have to deal with all the issues that affect this regime and in which we cannot improvise by making singular modifications, but we have to set up a system that is positive, that has a functioning carbon market and that, in turn, prevents the so-called carbon leakage or relocation problems of our industries, which has also worried many of your honourable members.
i have been working on climate change since the copenhagen conference, and i have to say that i really think that we have succeeded over the years in transforming a debate that was ambitious - period - into the debate that everyone hoped for, and that has been mentioned many times today, into an ambitious and pragmatic debate.
we have mentioned - and the commissioner has also mentioned - that it concerns only 14% of global emissions, and we all know that until now we have not been able to reach a binding agreement because the countries in question have extremely different situations and it is difficult to find a single strategy for action against climate change, starting from the needs of growth and development, which are so far apart, from the institutional and social histories, which are so different.
but it is also true that the climate has changed around this issue.
but on the other hand, the debate was an interesting debate because it touched on the whole issue of climate change policies.
just a little bit of a rant, perhaps, from people who don't acknowledge that climate change exists, but basically we're all marching in the same direction, and we're marching with conviction.
but it is necessary for paris and in view of paris that environmental diplomacy takes its course and that there are increasingly binding commitments from all the countries of the cop, so that we can move towards a binding agreement, but certainly a global agreement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we would like this parliament to take note of a few facts: in may, saudi arabia said it aims to become "a global powerhouse in solar and wind energy" by the middle of this century and to export electricity instead of oil.
finally, in may, a recent imf study revealed that between direct subsidies and environmental and health damage, fossil fuels will cost humanity $5 trillion this year, or 6.5 percent of global gdp.
the energy security strategy, despite the substantial improvements and thanks to saudargas , therefore appears not only out of date but also unfortunately schizophrenic: on the one hand, we are declaring war on climate change and wanting to reduce our energy and political dependence, on the other hand we are importing fissile material, clean coal, new drilling and the use of shale gas, and new investments in infrastructure which will still result in emissions of climate-changing gases.
if we want a strong and lasting european sovereignty, it is time to invest in a renewable model, not just for the real economy, but also for the real security, geology, climate of the planet and the health of european citizens.
we are here to talk about energy security and the energy mix, but i ask you what diversification do you think we are going to achieve if we talk about renewable sources, but in practice member states are allowed to cancel incentives for renewable sources and at the same time increase subsidies for fossil fuels in electricity and gas bills for millions of citizens of the european union?
eliminating these subsidies could increase government revenues, cut global carbon emissions by 20 percent, and reduce pollution-related premature deaths by 55 percent.
the real costs are enormous and europe must send a clear signal by eliminating fossil fuel subsidies once and for all because they have devastating consequences for the climate, the environment, public health and our fragile economies.
i think that europe's energy policy should be a whole and should be collaborative.
so what's the point of discussing energy when each state is making its own history?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the security of our energy supplies is the central issue for the future of the social, economic and productive fabric of the european union.
we are the largest energy importer on the planet as the european union.
that is why i think that the report by mr saudargas on energy security is important and balanced.
there is a balance in the committee on industry which is particularly advanced: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's energy policy is based on the principle of the european union's energy policy, which is based on the principle of the european union's energy policy.
i think this report provides a solid basis for comparison with the council, which just yesterday, at the meeting of the permanent representatives, reiterated its commitment to a supply policy that takes account of the path towards the completion of the internal market, in line with the conclusions of 20-21 march 2014. i also see this as an opportunity to re-launch a more ambitious vision of climate and energy policies, where the factors of economic growth do not contradict the factors of environmental improvement and vice versa.
in our view, as far as the industrial structure of our continent is concerned, the soundness of our energy policies is certainly a central point.
we cannot imagine playing this game with the environmental misconceptions that we have often seen in the debate that has led to this report.
when europe is about to give the status of a market economy to an economy like china's, it risks losing both the energy balance and the industrial competitiveness game.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the international situation, made even more complex by the events in russia, shows that energy security means above all political independence.
the construction of a genuine, stable and protective european energy union is proving to be both urgent and binding, not so much for the sake of pursuing the objectives set out in the motion for a resolution, which, together with the careful suggestions of the committees, i share, first of all because it is a geopolitical objective.
energy, the resilience of our nations, the fight against so-called energy poverty are being exploited, becoming, with a worrying escalation, instruments of pressure diplomacy and aggression.
the path towards the european energy union is still fragmented and uncertain, if not incoherent, if careful analysis of energy security, competitiveness and sustainability reveals unresolved issues on our internal and external energy dimension that amplify vulnerability.
among all these critical issues that i would like to see as opportunities for growth, i am convinced that affirming the general principle of solidarity between states, together with that of moderation, decarbonisation and innovation, is the decisive step towards a truly common energy policy.
‒ the kyoto ii package incorporates a reduction in co2 emissions that the eu has already set for itself and achieved following the introduction of the 2009 climate-energy package.
‒ i strongly supported the adoption of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, which is an important signal from the eu in the fight against climate change.
this comes less than 7 months after the start of cop 21 in paris and just days after g7 members committed to take action to limit global temperature rise to 2 degrees by 2050. the extension of the kyoto targets to 2020, as well as the global commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 40-70% by 2050 compared to 2010, appear to be achievable targets and are the key preconditions for the establishment of a binding post-2020 climate agreement.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu's commitment under the kyoto protocol to significantly reduce its co2 emissions is one of the cornerstones of the union's action and that it is therefore necessary to continue along this path.
‒ reducing emissions is essential to safeguarding the future of our planet and to counteracting the damage caused by climate change (tropical climate, extreme marine weather, alternating droughts and floods).
the union and the member states have committed themselves to achieving the objectives of the kyoto protocol: today we must ratify the doha amendment, which sets the stage for our efforts, and the regulation which will allow us to technically meet the second-period targets of a 21% reduction in emissions by 2020 compared with 2005 levels.
it is undeniable that the decision to ratify the doha amendment and the fulfilment of the commitments by the union will be of great importance: this is a strong signal in the fight against global climate change, which attests to the union's leadership in this area.
the political, economic and environmental importance of the kyoto protocol means that ratification by the member states should be completed by the third quarter of this year, so that they can take a definite, unified and consolidated position at the unfccc conference in paris.
kyoto ii incorporates the -20% co2 that the eu set for itself with the 2009 climate and energy package.
it barely covers 15% of global co2 emissions.
‒ today i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the commitments thereunder.
the 1992 united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) sought to limit the rise in global temperature, but it was clear as early as 1995 that the agreement would not be enough.
countries around the world have therefore started negotiations to improve the global response to climate change and in 1997 adopted the kyoto protocol, which sets an internationally binding emission reduction target.
the eu and its member states have therefore committed to delivering on their commitment to reduce their overall greenhouse gas emissions in the first period (2008-2012) by 8% compared to 1990 levels.
‒ the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, signed in 1997, establishes an internationally binding emission reduction target.
it is a sign of the eu's renewed commitment to combating climate change.
the european union has been waging an intense battle against climate change in recent years, with its policies and legislation, but a global commitment is needed and the countries involved, many of which are still reluctant to take on the burden of reducing emissions.
the adoption of the amendment is an important step ahead of the international climate conference scheduled for paris at the end of the year, where it will be essential to reach a global agreement.
the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), which was signed in 1997, sets an internationally binding emission reduction target.
the european union and its member states committed themselves to reducing their overall greenhouse gas emissions in the first period (2008-2012) by 8% compared to 1990 levels.
a 20% target was proposed in the council conclusions of 9 march 2012 for the second commitment period (2013-2020) of the kyoto protocol, and was subsequently accepted by the eu member states at the doha climate change conference in december 2012, which was attended by 192 states.
‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol because i am convinced of the importance of reducing the impact of pollution on the atmosphere and i am also convinced that the individual member state would not be able to set itself and achieve such an ambitious target.
this amendment provides for a reduction of the average annual greenhouse gas emissions by the member states and iceland for the period 2013-2020 of 80% compared to the baseline year, which is normally 1990. i hope that in the not too distant future we will be able to persuade the countries which have the greatest impact on the world's air pollution to join us, whereas now the whole or almost the whole burden of climate policy rests on europe's shoulders.
however, it is only through common climate and environmental policies that the objective of keeping the global temperature rise below 2 degrees will be achieved.
‒ the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of its commitments establishes the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol.
the amendments to the text of the protocol made by the doha amendment include the inclusion of a new gas (nitrogen trifluoride), the simplification of the procedure to allow a party to adjust its commitment by increasing the level of ambition during the commitment period, and a provision to prevent a party's emissions for the period from 2013 to 2020 from exceeding its average emissions in the period from 2008 to 2010. the amendment does not change the environmental objectives and obligations of the member states as enshrined in the 2009 climate and energy package legislation, but it will send a strong signal about the eu's leadership in this area.
‒ in december 2012, at the doha climate change conference, the 192 parties to the kyoto protocol to the un framework convention on climate change adopted an amendment to the kyoto protocol, which is intended to make the kyoto protocol more binding.
under the doha amendment, the eu, its member states and iceland commit to limiting their greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the years 2013-2020 to 80% of their baseline year emissions.
it is right and appropriate that the eu continues to play a leading role in the field of climate change, but it cannot remain the sole actor in making binding commitments, as has too often happened in the past.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the council decision on the conclusion, under the eu, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the un framework convention on climate change because i believe that the fight against climate change and the protection of our planet are fundamental challenges for world politics, as confirmed by recent discussions at the g7.
the eu is and must remain at the forefront of international negotiations, with the ambition of a bold agreement that protects the environment and reduces greenhouse gas emissions.
the doha amendment, mandating an 80% reduction in average annual greenhouse gas emissions over the period 2013-20 compared to 1990 levels, is a step in the right direction.
the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol (kp cp2), which begins on 1 january 2013 and ends on 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union commits to limiting its average annual greenhouse gas emissions over the period 2013-2020 to 80% of its baseline year (typically 1990).
i voted in favour of this proposal because it represents a step forward towards full ratification and once again underlines the leadership of the eu and its member states on climate change.
the aim of this protocol, signed in 1997, is to reduce internationally binding emissions, thus making a key contribution to global efforts to tackle climate change.
i believe that it is of the utmost importance to make legally binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, so that we can make all the climate commitments and so that europe can help to make the commitments made effective at international level.
the doha amendment opens a second phase of implementation of the protocol, which will end on 31 december 2020. it provides for legally binding commitments under which the eu, its member states and iceland commit to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions over the period 2013 to 2020 by 80%.
i voted in favour of mrs gardini's report because i believe that we need to do more to combat climate change.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol (between 1 january 2013 and 31 december 2020) and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of their respective emissions in the base year (typically 1990).
we believe that the european union cannot continue to be the sole holder of all its climate commitments, and that any new international agreement will have to be ambitious but also more realistic if the objective of keeping the global temperature rise below 2°c is to be met.
our decision to ratify today will certainly send a strong signal about the efforts and leadership of the eu and its member states in tackling climate change internationally.
‒ i voted in favour of mrs gardini's report because i believe that the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of commitments by the european union is the right way to tackle these problems at international level.
this document finally marks a new stage in which the european union, its member states and iceland commit themselves, through binding targets, to jointly reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions.
the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and will end on 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union, its member states and iceland commit to reducing their average annual greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels over the period 2013-2020. i therefore believe that the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of commitments by the european union will send a strong signal on the efforts and leadership of the eu and its member states in tackling climate change at international level.
i therefore consider the entry into force of the doha amendment to be one of the european union's priority objectives, as the kyoto protocol makes a crucial contribution to global efforts to tackle climate change.
‒ as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy, i have followed with particular attention the discussions on the kyoto protocol and specifically the doha amendment which establishes a second commitment period for states to limit emissions to 80% of 1990 levels.
i voted in favour because i believe that by ratifying it before the end of the year, when the 21st conference of the parties (cop 21) to the united nations framework convention on climate change will take place, eu member states will be setting a good example at international level.
‒ i gave my approval to the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol because it is of the utmost importance that a second period of legally binding commitments by the eu to reduce average annual greenhouse gas emissions is established.
given the priority of the topic, i hope that the eu will take all possible measures to convince some of the most polluting countries, which are not part of it, to sign a binding international agreement, so that climate commitments are shared and the goal of keeping the global temperature rise below 2°c is achieved.
‒ the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol marks a new phase, which began in 2013 and will end in 2020, in which the european union, its member states and iceland commit themselves through binding targets to jointly reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ in today's vote, the european parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the european union therefore commits itself to comply with binding targets to reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions over the period from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020. i voted in favour of parliament's recommendation.
this decision will help to confirm the eu's key contribution and leadership in the fight against climate change.
i would remind you, however, that the second commitment period covers only 14% of global emissions, since the united states, russia, canada, japan and the developing countries are not involved.
i therefore hope that the next unfccc conference in paris at the end of 2015 will mark a turning point in this regard, by concluding a new climate agreement that is legally binding and enforceable in a fair manner by all parties.
the fight against climate change requires a global political response; it is time for each country to take its own responsibility.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, signed in 1997 to establish a binding international greenhouse gas emission reduction target.
the doha amendment is key to achieving the global emission reduction targets, as it establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol (2013-2020) and provides for legally binding commitments under which the eu commits to a significant reduction in average annual greenhouse gas emissions compared to the baseline year, typically 1990. the draft council decision therefore provides the basis for the conclusion of the doha amendment by the union and lays down the conditions for the joint fulfilment of those commitments.
the conclusion of the doha amendment and the commitments thereunder will send a strong signal of the union's efforts and leadership in addressing global climate change in the run-up to the unfccc paris conference in 2015. at this point, it is therefore crucial that member states conclude their national ratification processes swiftly, before the important date in paris later this year.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period for the kyoto protocol, from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020, and provides for legally binding obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the second phase of the kyoto protocol serves as a bridge to a global post-2020 climate change agreement.
in this context, the european union and its member states have jointly - and together with iceland - committed to reducing their emissions over the period 2013-2020 by 20% compared to 1990 levels.
the formal entry into force of the amendment is an essential step towards achieving the eu's priority objectives, as the kyoto protocol makes a crucial contribution to global efforts to tackle climate change.
‒ i voted today for parliament to give its consent to the ratification of the doha agreements of december 2012. i think it is important that the european union sends a strong signal to the other world powers by showing its leadership in the fight against climate change in the international context.
these agreements commit the union to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020. i find that, although the european union is already implementing similar reduction targets under the climate and energy package, european ratification is an important step towards the entry into force of the agreements.
in view of this important event, it is essential that we work towards a legally binding agreement for all countries in paris, with the full involvement and commitment of both the united states and the emerging countries, which are responsible for a large proportion of greenhouse gas emissions.
the european union must send a strong signal in the fight against climate change and show itself as a leader in the fight by adopting a comprehensive strategy.
finally, i would like to stress the importance of the conclusions of the g7 in bavaria, where leaders affirmed the need to take urgent and concrete action to tackle climate change as soon as possible, and the need to keep global temperature rise to within the two-degree limit and to reduce emissions by 40 to 70% by 2050 compared to 2010 levels.
‒ the kyoto ii package incorporates a reduction in co2 emissions that the eu has already set for itself and achieved following the introduction of the 2009 climate-energy package.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu-iceland agreement on iceland's participation in the second commitment period under the kyoto protocol is a demonstration of the importance of the union's role in the fight against global warming at international level.
‒ the participation of iceland, a virtuous country which has significantly reduced its emissions over the past five years and which is a positive model for most of the technologically advanced states, in the agreement which marks the start of the second phase of the kyoto protocol is certainly to be welcomed and supported politically.
the participation of the republic of iceland in the joint achievement of the objectives set out in the doha amendment should encourage us to be ambitious and not to be satisfied with the results achieved: there is still a long way to go to build a technologically advanced and environmentally sustainable civilization.
we need to create a legal framework that is binding on all countries, pushing them to achieve their goals in a clear and fair way, adapted to the economic and environmental conditions of their territory.
the fight against climate change is not a fight between countries or between peoples: it is a struggle of human civilization against the polluting factors that threaten its prosperity and development.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation today because i believe that the agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and iceland, on the other, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol will be a strong signal that will highlight coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level.
i therefore believe that the council decision on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments under the kyoto protocol should be ratified without undue delay and certainly well before the paris climate conference in november.
the protection of the environment is fundamental and every state on the planet should be involved.
the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), which was signed in 1997, sets an internationally binding emission reduction target.
the european union and its member states committed themselves to reducing their overall greenhouse gas emissions in the first period (2008-2012) by 8% compared to 1990 levels.
in the council conclusions of 9 march 2012, a 20% target was proposed for the second commitment period (2013-2020) of the kyoto protocol, and then accepted by eu member states at the doha climate change conference in december 2012, which was attended by 192 states.
i am in favour of iceland's participation because it has already demonstrated by its participation in annex i of the kyoto protocol that it is able to meet and deliver on its commitments, reducing its emissions by an average of 2%.
the fact that iceland is not part of the european union further underlines the coordinated european efforts in the fight against climate change at the international level.
i believe that the eu-iceland report on environmental policy represents a further opportunity to renew our joint commitment to tackling climate change at international level.
this requires iceland to apply union legislation not applicable to third countries, in particular as regards the monitoring, reporting and verification of emissions, as well as the operation of the registry and the accounting of transactions related to the implementation of the commitments of the union, its member states and iceland under the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol in line with the joint fulfilment deadlines and internationally agreed standards.
i am in favour of the conclusion of the agreement in question, signed by the union and iceland on 1 april 2015, as in 2012 the 192 parties to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change adopted an amendment to the protocol (the doha amendment).
‒ iceland is a country that has taken part in the commitments of the first part of the kyoto protocol and has expressed its interest in being able to take part in the second commitment period of the same protocol, within the framework of the united nations framework convention on climate change.
so far iceland has largely fulfilled all its climate commitments and is already participating with us in the ets programme and the mmr mechanism.
the further reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the renewed commitment to the kyoto protocol, sealed by the conclusion of the doha amendment, is an important testament to the struggle of the union and its member states, together with iceland, to take further steps forward in the strategy to combat pollution and tackle global climate change.
i am glad that the amendment has been ratified, because it means that we are taking a more responsible approach to the big event of the 2015 paris conference, setting ourselves ambitious targets for the global climate agreement, which will not only affect the amount of emissions of our countries, but also plans for growth, development, investment and employment, capable of envisaging new forms of energy production and consumption.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep's position on the council decision on the conclusion of the eu-iceland agreement and iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the eu, its member states and iceland for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the un framework convention on climate change.
the climate change negotiations are at a crucial stage with the paris conference approaching.
i therefore believe that it is necessary to support this process, given that iceland is part of the european economic area, already participates in the ets and mmr systems and shares the european climate policy, and that such a decision would represent a further sign of unity before the international partners.
i believe that the agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and iceland, on the other, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, will be a strong signal that will highlight coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level, especially in view of the forthcoming cop 21 in paris.
the european union is a world leader in the fight against climate change and has always supported an ambitious climate policy.
‒ i am in favour of the agreement on iceland's participation in the second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, whereby the eu, its member states and iceland jointly commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of their respective emissions in the base year.
the participation of iceland is a strong signal that underlines coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level and contributes to the fulfilment of the union's reporting obligations for the second commitment period under the kyoto protocol.
‒ the agreement between the european union, its member states and iceland on iceland's participation in the commitments under the kyoto protocol for the second commitment period, as enshrined in the doha amendment, is a strong signal for the fight against climate change at international level.
the european union is playing a leading role in the international negotiations on climate change, and i felt it was my duty to support the report by mr la via.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol and provides for legally binding emission reduction obligations whereby the european union, its member states and iceland jointly commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions.
iceland, although not a member state, participates in the eu emissions trading system (ets) and the eu regulation on the monitoring mechanism (mmr) for greenhouse gases.
our vote today in favour of this participation agreement with iceland will be a strong signal to underline the coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level.
the european union has long played a leading role in international climate change negotiations and has made a key contribution to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol.
this document finally marks a new stage in which the european union, its member states and iceland commit themselves, through binding targets, to jointly reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the inclusion of iceland alongside the eu in the second kyoto protocol, the so-called doha amendment, can act as an incentive for other states to follow the european example on a path to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
if the joint commitment is not met, each participant is individually responsible for its own level of emissions.
‒ i have decided to vote in favour of the european parliament's recommendation to allow for the swift ratification of the agreement between the european union, the member states and iceland, which expresses the parties' intention to jointly achieve their greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, within the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol.
this decision has the merit of reaffirming the importance of international cooperation in the fight against climate change.
iceland will be required to apply some of the european union's rules on monitoring, reporting and verifying emissions, and to provide all information that will enable the eu to meet its reporting obligations.
joint compliance will therefore entail the same rights, rules and, above all, the necessary sharing of efforts for an effective reduction of emissions.
i hope that this approach will soon be part of the wider framework of a climate agreement, involving the entire international community.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft agreement proposed by the council on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the european union and its member states for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
this decision builds on and builds on existing cooperation on the implementation of commitments to combat climate change.
despite the suspension of eu accession negotiations, iceland is participating in the ets and the eu regulation on the monitoring mechanism for greenhouse gases.
this collaboration is significant in view of the unfccc paris conference as it highlights coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level and the leading role of the european union in this field.
‒ the g7 international climate summit finally resulted in an agreement setting a binding target for the containment of global temperature and the creation of a fund for initiatives in developing countries.
much has been done from kyoto to paris, but a joint commitment by all member states and third countries is needed to combat climate change.
as a member of the european economic area, iceland is already participating in the greenhouse gas emissions trading system.
i think it is important that the commitments made on climate change be extended to european countries outside the union.
despite what has happened, i have chosen to abstain on the resolution because i believe that we must have a long-term vision and aim at a constructive relationship between the eu and russia, in the interests of both and with the prospect of working together on global challenges such as climate change, the middle east peace process, the fight against terrorism and organised crime and cooperation on new technological developments.
‒ russia remains an important partner of the european union in several areas, including energy security, trade and the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
both the russian blacklist, which prevents 89 european politicians and officials from entering russian territory, and the report adopted by the european parliament today risk being counterproductive and having the only effect of exacerbating the climate of growing tension.
‒ the recent geopolitical crises have shown the vulnerability of the european union in terms of security and energy supply.
to meet this challenge, it is necessary to overcome the idea that each individual member state adopts its own national energy policy in an uncoordinated and unintegrated manner with respect to a general framework of priorities defined at community level.
the draft report we voted on today clearly identifies these priorities: diversify sources of supply, improve energy efficiency, develop modern transmission infrastructure and integrate renewable resources more efficiently.
the commission will also be working on a new strategy for the energy sector, which will be based on the principle of the internal market and the principle of solidarity between member states.
this is a fundamental project which lays the foundations for a future energy union.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that the eu should work towards having its own energy security strategy to ensure a constant and regular supply of energy.
the eu's energy policy is wrong and uneconomic.
‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the european energy security strategy.
the well-known russian events show that the security and prosperity of the european union require the rational and efficient use of energy, through a constant, accessible and sustainable energy supply.
the european union therefore considers the establishment of a european energy union to be of the utmost importance.
the eu's energy strategy should also focus on key issues such as the achievement of a fully integrated internal energy market, moderating energy demand, decarbonising the energy mix and research and innovation, the development of renewable energy and its storage.
instead, a focus on energy efficiency and renewables and a moderate and cooperative approach should dominate the union's energy security strategy.
‒ energy security remains the major challenge facing the european union in the coming years.
the instability in the regions that supply us with energy makes it necessary to achieve an energy union which can be achieved by defining a long-term strategy that can chart the path to increase domestic production.
in this scenario, not only is it essential to increase the production capacity and storage of renewable energy but also energy efficiency, where there are more critical considering that it will be difficult to reach the 20% target by 2020. efforts and commitments at all levels are needed, especially by local authorities, which could provide a significant impetus for investing in sustainable public transport and in making public buildings more efficient.
the 2014-2020 structural and investment funds can be a very important source of funding to deliver these actions and to trigger the energy mix that will enable the transition to a low-carbon economy and the achievement of european objectives.
‒ i abstained on the european energy security strategy because, although i share the basic approach of rational and efficient energy use, aimed at achieving an energy security situation which would also enable the union to emancipate itself politically from the yoke of its own needs, i felt that i could not express myself in favour of certain points.
i also disagree with what has been said on nuclear energy, because even if the subject does not directly concern italy, i believe that the countries which have made use of this technology have had advantages and, aware of the risks inherent in this type of source, i am once again against demonizing it.
‒ energy security means political independence, the independence of sovereign states, and the stabilisation of economic growth and democracy in europe.
given that the eu still imports 53% of its energy needs, mainly from geopolitically unstable regions, and that some member states are dependent on a single external source of energy supply, the use of oil and natural gas for foreign policy purposes undermines the eu's economic growth and stability.
therefore, the signing of an additional protocol would allow for the establishment of a long-term strategy to promote eu energy independence, increase the bargaining power of member states, develop energy technologies, diversify and consolidate supply options, increase consumption efficiency and develop interconnections to link regional energy markets.
‒ the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european energy security strategy provides an opportunity to consider the energy situation in europe.
the following points should be made about the progress made in recent years in the differentiation of energy sources: in fact, thanks to the increase in renewable sources, the dependence on less secure sources such as nuclear is falling sharply.
‒ the strategy was adopted by the commission on 28 may 2014, following a request by the european council to establish a short- and long-term action plan to reduce energy dependence on external sources.
the initial text focused on fossil fuels, regasifiers, drilling, new gas pipelines and carbon storage.
the commission's communication has a clear political direction: the commission has also proposed that the member states should try to avoid as far as possible the use of russian gas from other sources of supply and at the same time increase domestic energy production, particularly through nuclear energy and the extraction of fossil fuels.
this goes hand in hand with the financing of new crossborder infrastructure works, which should improve the interconnection of the european energy network.
as m5s, we have managed to amend the text by adding key concepts such as appropriations for energy retrofitting of buildings, emphasising the importance of renewables for european energy security, supporting the eu fracking moratorium and the elimination of fossil and nuclear subsidies.
unfortunately, the final text, while approving the moratorium on fracking and the energy conversion of buildings, nevertheless contains several negative elements, such as public subsidies for nuclear energy and an excessive demonization of russia.
in the light of all this, and with energy import figures in the eu at 53% (and which unfortunately see italy even more exposed, with energy imports for 80% of consumption needs), trying to act with the utmost urgency to put in place a european energy security strategy can only be a plan that is not only shared, but today increasingly urgent, necessary and a priority.
i therefore wholeheartedly support mr saudargas' report, which highlights the main emergencies we are committed to tackling and, above all, the actions and measures which the eu and its member states must take as soon as possible to reduce energy demand and create an internal market which protects us from any political speculation on energy supplies.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european strategy for energy security in the eu because the creation of a single energy market is a key issue, responding to economic, industrial, environmental and geopolitical challenges.
the eu currently imports 53% of its total energy consumption, mainly oil, gas and solid fuels, from countries with complex geopolitical situations.
the diversification of energy sources is an essential condition for reducing dependence on fossil fuels.
we need a new energy paradigm, a new vision for the future, which focuses on european production of renewable energy, energy efficiency and demand moderation, combining production, economic and environmental objectives.
i also share the call for the role of local authorities in the definition of energy policies in the regions.
the diversification of sources must not jeopardize the protection of the environment and the states have a duty to protect our seas by listening to the voice of those areas with a great tourist vocation.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because energy policy must be tackled with an effective strategy.
more than half of our energy needs are imported from third countries.
the energy sector is one of the most affected, hence the need for reform.
for the safety and well-being of our citizens, energy must harness new technologies, not old diplomatic relations.
‒ i abstained on the report on the european energy security strategy.
‒ following the crisis in ukraine, in may 2014 the european commission became a promoter of a european energy security strategy.
‒ the recent conflict in ukraine has certainly reminded european states of the importance of security of energy supply and has underlined the close link between the energy market and its geopolitical context.
despite some progress in recent years, the european union still faces challenges such as instability in its energy-supply regions, a fragmented internal market and the fight against climate change.
the eu imports 53% of its total energy consumption and many member states still depend on a single external source of supply, which hinders europe's economic growth and endangers internal and eu security.
the report adopted today sets out a number of priority actions to moderate energy demand by increasing domestic energy production and developing new energy technologies, with the aim of building a fully integrated and efficient internal market.
the commission will continue to promote new energy efficiency, focusing on alternative sources.
new technologies could help reduce energy dependence by diversifying and consolidating supply options.
as regional integration is a key element of energy security, the eu will need to step up its efforts to implement strategic energy infrastructure projects, fostering solidarity and coordination mechanisms.
‒ the european commission, following the crisis in ukraine in may 2014, proposed a european energy security strategy.
although i believe that the european union must play a key role in european and international energy policy, i believe that the text, as drafted and presented in this chamber, does not fully reflect the initial forecasts.
‒ i voted in favour because i believe that the eu must complete the single market by adding the energy union to it, and this can only be done by diversifying energy sources and focusing on renewable resources.
‒ i agree with the rapporteur when he stresses the importance of energy security for the eu and how vulnerable the energy market can be if we refer to current geopolitics.
it is important to stress that, despite the progress made in recent years, there is a need for energy security in the eu.
even now, the eu itself imports 53% of its total energy consumption and some member states are still dependent on a single external supplier, which shows how fragile the balance can be and can jeopardise the eu's economic growth.
i am in favour of creating an efficient internal energy market by competing among different suppliers with the aim of having reliable services at lower prices but for that very reason, and i have therefore abstained, i do not support the proposal to close trade relations with some partners, because that would undermine the ultimate objective of having reliable energy supplies at competitive prices.
‒ i voted against because i think the text is too optimistic in identifying the use of important renewable sources as the solution to most of the problems of energy supply at european level.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the european energy security strategy because i consider it of paramount importance that the eu should have a regulatory framework that enables it to ensure the security of energy supply by phasing out its dependence on fossil fuels.
the document contained important proposals to move towards decarbonisation of the economy (such as renewed support for binding targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and the share of energy produced from renewable sources, as part of the 2030 climate package), environmental protection (moratorium on new shale gas exploration, recognition of liability for nuclear operators for environmental risks) and strong support for research to develop new energy technologies.
it is necessary for parliament to continue the debate on this subject with an approach based on the combination and integration of energy policy and sustainable growth.
i hope that the future debate on the european commission's recent proposal for the creation of the energy union will follow this path.
‒ i voted no by helping to reject the saudargas report on energy security.
it retained all the essential elements of the european commission's communication, which was more political than aimed at guaranteeing real and lasting energy security and still in the wake of the fossil fuel paradigm.
the plant started from the desire to no longer buy russian gas and to supply it by building infrastructure to import it from other areas; through the development of clean coal/ccs, nuclear and drilling to extract more fossil fuels and produce more indigenous energy in the eu.
these negative aspects of the report were overwhelming the positive elements that the m5s, thanks to the work of the itre committee, had brought: binding targets for renewables, energy savings and greenhouse gas reduction; the commitment to financially support the energy retrofitting of buildings.
‒ we have today rejected the european energy security strategy adopted by the commission on 28 may 2014 following a request by the european council to establish a short and long-term action plan to reduce energy dependence from abroad.
although considerable progress has been made in the negotiations, including greater references in the text to energy democracy, decentralised production, the role of local and citizen initiatives, energy efficiency, the essential role of renewables in the european mix, the need to eliminate subsidies to fossil fuels and the reduction of dependence through measures to moderate demand, the text remains highly controversial.
the focus on energy efficiency, renewables and demand moderation should have been dominant in such a strategy.
‒ i regret the outcome of today's vote, as i believe that ensuring energy security is one of the main objectives of the european union and this own-initiative report would have been a step in the right direction.
the eu must lead the shift towards diversifying sources of supply by investing in research and development to increase the potential of renewables and energy efficiency.
energy is the engine of sustainable growth in europe and a potential source of new high-quality jobs and new export markets to support our smes.
i would also like to stress that growth and development in this area must go hand in hand with environmental protection legislation.
it will be our task in the coming months to develop the ideas contained in the commission's communication on the energy union, promoting coherent and effective legislation that can meet the challenges of the future.
i hope that olaf will be able to fulfil its tasks and that an action plan will be drawn up by 31 december this year with a view to creating a collaborative and transparent working environment.
i have therefore decided to support the recommendation that the commission facilitate the negotiations between olaf and the supervisory committee by setting out by 31 december 2015 an action plan to amend the working arrangements in order to create an operational environment in which the supervisory committee can fulfil its mandate, and that olaf comply with legal obligations to enable the supervisory committee to fulfil its supervisory functions in a lawful and transparent manner.
more alarm bells, but also very serious and damaging facts in themselves, because of their immediate effects on the cultural, social and political climate of the country and their collision with the values and the law of the eu and international (including the geneva convention on refugees).
‒ eu-turkey relations bring benefits to both sides in economic, energy security and foreign policy matters.
turkey is a key partner for the eu in various areas of trade and industry, energy security, foreign policy cooperation, immigration and regional stability.
the resolution tabled by the committee on foreign affairs, which i decided to vote in favour of, highlights the positive results achieved by turkey in 2014, a country which has now become a strategic, economic and energy partner of increasing importance for europe, but on the other hand, critical issues remain and these must be resolved with a view to ever deeper cooperation.
the european union must be energy independent and must proceed with a single foreign and defence policy, partly because this helps to reduce the expenditure of individual member states.
the commission must therefore work towards greater cooperation on security and defence policy with the black sea partner states and must give priority support to initiatives to diversify energy resources in the black sea as part of a strategy for energy independence from russia.
that is why we have to support the regional and african union efforts to improve the political climate and get consensus on how to make elections work.
that's right, because there are certainly some important energy potentials as well, but if we keep using the mean to say that everyone else is scary, they suck, why?
community aid should be channelled through local organisations where possible in order to promote self-sufficiency and support local industries and businesses, which is also essential to achieve a rapid transition towards a sustainable recovery of the country.
‒ the events in the strategic black sea area have changed europe's geopolitical balance, especially in terms of energy security, and have opened up new scenarios to which european foreign policy must respond.
europe will need to take its responsibility to find a sustainable solution based on our values.
but we still have to discuss the best way to achieve a complete, sustainable solution, a real and effective solution.
we can only hope that the outcome of the talks will be sustainable.
it goes without saying that in order to strengthen confidence in the union economy, member states should continue to undertake effective and economically and socially sustainable structural reforms in order to establish a virtuous circle in which investment projects contribute to job creation and the reduction of macroeconomic imbalances in the union.
the planned investment plan focuses on quality as well as quantity: it not only supports our economy, but also helps to move it in a more sustainable direction.
by focusing more on investments in renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, smart grids, circular economy, resource efficiency, it is possible to stimulate growth and jobs towards a new european green economy.
the european fund can look to sustainable and smart development, while safeguarding the importance of the objectives of horizon 2020, the european programme for research and innovation, and the connecting europe facility, the european programme for infrastructure and the digital agenda, which should be strengthened and re-financed in the coming years.
in order to put in place a durable growth mechanism that also leads to the creation of new jobs, effective and economically and socially sustainable structural reforms by member states, as well as the promotion of initiatives such as training programmes and active labour market policies, remain necessary.
beyond the questionable procedural issues outlined, we believe that there are still a number of concerns, ranging from the fact that it is open to companies with up to 3 000 employees (not smes) to the fact that priority will be given to large infrastructure and energy projects that cannot properly be defined as sustainable, and this is precisely the direction in which the main projects also presented by italy are heading.
the investment will be concentrated in a few key areas of the european economy (infrastructure, energy, research).
this release of liquidity will have to be accompanied by major structural reforms by the member states which will have to be economically and socially sustainable.
this is necessary not only to foster future, sustainable and smart growth, but also to ensure that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy become achievable.
in committee, the m5s had proposed an alternative vision to the original text, through some 70 amendments, ranging from a true and 'limited' definition of smes, to a guarantee cover to be found for example within the pre-accession ipa funds, to finally arrive at binding criteria for the selection of truly sustainable projects and better and more transparent governance.
finally, it was decided to reduce regional disparities in order to encourage competitiveness and innovation, while supporting measures for the energy-efficient transition towards a sustainable circular economy.
i therefore believe that the regulation is going in the direction we want: sustainable and smart growth that takes account of the social dimension, achieving the europe 2020 objectives.
i am sure that it will be a driver of jobs and opportunities, making the european economy competitive, innovative and circular, without neglecting fundamental aspects such as sustainable development and green growth.
we believe that it will not only help to boost the union's economy, but also to transform it into a resilient, innovative, inclusive, low-carbon economy.
we will therefore support truly transformative services and infrastructure, able to cope with 'new' challenges such as our loss of competitiveness, dangerous climate change, our dependence on scarce and critical natural resources from third countries and the volatility and unpredictability of energy and resource prices.
the strategy is based on three main pillars: the mobilisation of funds for investment, the ability of investment to reach the real economy and the improvement of the investment environment in the union.
investment projects will have to be in line with the union's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it is of course important to emphasize that, in the selection of projects, priority must be given to those which have a clear european value, are sustainable and can add value in boosting growth.
in fact, although investments in railways and inland waterways bring important socio-economic and environmental benefits, they are less profitable and require a loss-making contribution to be realised.
these funds are expected to generate a leverage effect of eur 315 billion between 2015 and 2017. the main objective of the efsi should be to help overcome the difficulties in financing and implementing investments in strategic areas such as sustainable urban mobility, energy infrastructure, digital technologies, research, education and e-health.
i would also stress that this fund will make it possible to invest additional resources to help overcome market failures, financial fragmentation, alongside the traditional instruments of support for research, innovation and energy efficiency.
in particular, the report seeks to establish whether the provisions on decision-making processes have been sufficiently effective and whether progress has been made towards closer coordination of economic policies and sustainable convergence of member states' economic performance under the tfeu.
only by directly linking the new and reformed economic governance to the real economy, the completion of the single market and the creation of a true digital market, can the measures taken in recent months really help to achieve lasting and sustainable growth in our countries.
the introduction of a new legal framework to replace the troika is essential to achieve greater investment and sustainable growth.
let us not waste time arguing with a man who, during his presidency, has raised the authority, prestige and power of the european parliament to the highest level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is widely believed that an economic system can grow indefinitely: but any economic system is always within a closed ecological system, our planet.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the environment is protected.
it is urgently needed because the earth's resources are not unlimited, because the quality of the planet's environment is deteriorating, because global warming is not being stopped and because a dramatic food emergency is becoming more evident.
only the shortsighted and the deaf continue to ignore that environmental quality will become an increasingly essential factor in the development of our economy.
the cultural change, the lifestyle change, the design and production change that we want to achieve is based on a simple principle: the raw materials in the products are no longer to be considered as waste to be discarded after a short life cycle.
we want and must move from the culture of waste, the practice of disposal, from unbridled consumerism to that of reuse and recycling.
here are a few key objectives: increase our resources by 30% by 2030; produce the same products with 30% less resources; the commission has also proposed that the member states should set up a european waste management system, which would be based on the principle of 'common waste'.
these are the objectives which we as socialists and democrats support and i hope that parliament will be consistent and coherent with the choices we have made in the committee on the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before i begin, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, our colleague on the environment committee, who has worked very hard on this subject.
we must also, once and for all, overcome the concept of sustainable development, because it is not enough to make the mega-machine better or less polluting.
this practice, in addition to being a source of pollution dangerous to human health and the environment, also affects the possibility of implementing a waste reduction policy, which is one of the most important measures in the hierarchy of solid urban waste management.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the circular economy is a unique opportunity to help launch the economic and social development of europe and to launch it into a new phase of sustainable development, a phase in which waste is a resource, businesses are at the heart of the sustainable revolution and production and business models are circular precisely because they recycle raw materials and their efficient use.
but it would be wrong to confine the circular economy to environmental policy.
so you understand that the circular economy is not just what we want to do with the waste, so it's not just what percentage of separate collection we want to achieve, where we want to give it.
the circular economy is undoubtedly the revision of waste legislation, which is an essential part, but it is much more.
can you tell him that this thing you said is completely at odds with the decree "unlock italy" which doubles oil extraction and which frees the incineration of waste?
we believe that in order to have a more sustainable industrial system in the long term, we need to reuse everything that can be reused in the production process.
that is why we are strongly calling on the commission - and we have asked it before we withdraw the proposal on waste - to come forward with a more ambitious proposal, a proposal which will enable us to look even further ahead, on the one hand, to make the economic system competitive and, on the other, to have a sustainable system, that is, a system which can be maintained in the long term.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, changing the development model means abandoning the exponential growth of consumption of goods, energy consumption and therefore consumption of natural resources.
it means shutting down plants that have a negative impact on health and the environment and that often kill.
as europeans, we need to find a way to create a better environment for the circular economy.
when looking at asia, especially china, they have an environmental necessity, similarly to us.
if we manage to create an internal market for used raw materials or a secondary market for raw materials, then we can again build incentives for healthier, more environmentally, socially and economically sustainable development on this issue.
i also think it is essential to refer to the proposal announced by the commission on the revision of waste legislation: the commission must be obliged to present it by 2015, including clear and unambiguous definitions, the development of waste prevention measures, the application of the 'pay as you throw' principle and the strict limitation of incinerators.
i hope that the commission will be able to take these inputs and be able to push member states towards a paradigm shift towards an economic system where the materials and energy used to manufacture products retain their value for as long as possible, thereby reducing waste and resource use and at the same time creating economic opportunities and competitive advantages on a sustainable basis.
it is very important that resources are used in the right way, through a conscious and sustainable use.
the lack of this perspective is the cause of immense environmental damage, with often irreversible effects, which are seriously jeopardizing the survival of our planet as we know it today.
the environmental damage is compounded by economic damage.
but at the same time, we must not call into question european standards in the areas of food safety, human health, animal welfare, environmental protection and consumer protection.
this is the most important challenge we have and we cannot afford to waste it.
and it does so by declining to discuss what transparency, respect for environmental and food standards, labour standards, consumer safety, respect for cultural diversity and safeguarding public services mean to us.
at an important stage in the negotiations, the resolution clearly states our priorities: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the geographical indications are protected, that our small and mediumsized enterprises have access to the us market, that we overcome the old isds and that we protect our social, health and environmental standards.
who but europe can redefine the parameters of a globalisation that is fairer and more respectful of the social and environmental rights of all?
we must look at the merits, and the document we are approving contains the defence of fundamental standards on the environment and the protection of workers, the health of citizens, human rights.
the court of auditors is doing too little to reveal the true waste of the union and its organs.
partnership agreements concluded by the eu with third countries must respect the sustainability principles that our community has set itself when adopting the common fisheries policy.
the damage to the homes of citizens, public and private infrastructure, businesses, agricultural holdings and environmental assets in the affected areas has been very serious in economic, tourist and above all human terms, causing victims and material consequences that are difficult to resolve in the short term.
since 2002, when the fund was set up, it has been used 67 times: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
as these appropriations will help the three countries to repair the damage to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses, agriculture, the environment and cultural heritage caused by the floods, i have decided to support the report.
by receiving comprehensive information, the traveller should be able to choose a personalised travel solution that represents the most sustainable, fast or economically viable alternative with a single ticket.
by receiving comprehensive information, the traveller should be able to choose, book and pay online for a personalised travel solution that is the most sustainable, fast or cost-effective alternative and to travel with a single ticket, regardless of the number of modes of transport used during the journey.
in addition, achieving this objective will help to tackle traffic problems such as congestion and pollution by encouraging the use of public transport.
i therefore believe that the possibility of travelling using an integrated multimodal ticket is the first step towards an improvement in the conditions of travellers which will have a positive effect on the economy, tourism and the environment.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
this will benefit consumers economically and organisationally, and the increased synergies between private and public operators and between local and national authorities will also have a positive impact on energy efficiency.
‒ we welcome this draft resolution as a necessary step to intelligently address some of the issues of sustainability, cost-effectiveness, energy efficiency and eco-compatibility, and at the same time to respond to congestion and other traffic problems.
by receiving comprehensive information, the traveller should be able to choose, book and pay online for a personalised travel solution that is the most sustainable, fastest or cost-effective choice and to travel on a single ticket, regardless of the number of modes of transport used during the journey.
the tourism sector must be considered as one of the driving forces of the european economy and facilitating travel within the old continent is one of the means of promoting our magnificent countries, in addition to the potential benefit in terms of circulation with a careful eye also to respect for the environment.
‒ the introduction of information, planning and ticketing services for multimodal travel at european level could help to reduce transport sustainability, energy efficiency and traffic problems.
in addition to making life easier for travellers, the integration of information, travel planning and ticketing services could be a response to the challenges posed by the european transport sector (such as sustainability, multimodality, improving safety in all modes of transport, efficiency, creating quality jobs), benefiting the economy, society and the environment.
‒ european transport policy must address key issues such as sustainability, cost-effectiveness, energy efficiency and traffic congestion, which is why i believe it is essential to support all information, planning and ticketing services for multimodal travel at union level.
i fully share the emphasis in this report on the end user and the expected social benefits, the objective of the european institutions is to reduce the environmental impact and increase the safety of transport, including through the provision of information adapted to the needs of all travellers, including disabled people.
the long-term objective is to enable travellers to choose, book and pay online for a personalised travel solution that is the most sustainable, fast or cost-effective alternative and to travel with a single ticket, regardless of the number of modes of transport used during the journey.
a key step towards a sustainable, citizen-centred transport system for safe, efficient and effective urban mobility.
an integrated ticket for travelling across eu borders that allows for the use of multiple modes of transport could also increase the use of public transport, with clear environmental benefits.
we therefore support the mobilisation of additional sources of private and public finance to support investment in objectives of european scope, in particular to address cross-border challenges in areas such as energy, the environment and transport infrastructure.
the revolution in the plan lies in the new growth model it contains, articulated around strategic priorities for future investment in the european economic and productive fabric, in particular in crucial sectors with a higher social impact, such as education, renewable energy and digital, and benefiting the areas most affected by the crisis.
i think it is essential to encourage research and innovation to enable all producers and processors to adapt their production techniques to meet economic, environmental and social expectations.
the milk market observatory was also set up for this purpose to disseminate and analyse market data and is intended to play a strategic role in the future in creating a profitable, sustainable and competitive dairy sector in the union.
the initial objective was to create a profitable, sustainable and competitive sector with response tools that allow fair compensation of milk producers, in particular for small farms which are particularly vulnerable to changes in income and risks due to high capital costs, perishability of production, price volatility and energy and factor costs.
the problems of complex adjustment to a newly revolutionised regulatory framework, price volatility, energy costs and factors of production, to name a few, have been compounded by the very serious impact of the vicious sanctions imposed on russia.
these are important issues which the eu must tackle urgently if we want an innovative, competitive and sustainable dairy sector.
finally, i would like to emphasize the role of milk production in terms of land management, rural employment and economic, environmental and social development in many european agricultural regions.
‒ the milk package aims to create the conditions for a profitable, sustainable and competitive dairy sector in the community.
‒ we declare our support for this important draft resolution, as producers in the sector are particularly vulnerable to income changes due to high capital costs, volatile dairy product prices and fluctuating energy and factor costs.
therefore, it is essential for the future growth and sustainability of the sector to encourage and support generational renewal, using both new and existing tools.
milk producers are particularly vulnerable to income changes due to high raw material prices and fluctuating costs of inputs and energy resources needed for production.
‒ dairy farmers, and in particular small farms, face multiple challenges on a daily basis in order to survive, such as high capital costs, perishable production, high price volatility, fluctuating energy and factor costs.
the vote in favour was therefore due to the presence in the text of both positive assessments of the activities of these partnerships and social references concerning the commitment of the companies involved to respect the environment and workers' rights.
the text adopted today therefore calls for greater coordination between the public and private sectors through appropriate technical assistance to strengthen the legal and institutional framework in which public-private partnerships have developed, assessing and monitoring the implementation of such projects in strategic areas such as energy, water, digital, road and telecommunications infrastructure.
the importance of public-private partnerships (ppps) is linked to the fact that they are a tool for economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation both in the single market and beyond, and play a strategic role in the modernisation of infrastructure, in particular energy, water, road and digital infrastructure.
the positive effects of partnerships are due to better project delivery, good cost-benefit ratio, the possibility of long-term financing of costs, the stimulation of innovation and research and a more flexible and specialised management environment.
so, considering that the interaction between the public and private sectors is an innovative solution that brings benefits to the economy as a whole and that these benefits will be distributed to citizens, consumers and private businesses, i believe that it is constructive to support sustainable growth also through such investments in third countries as they could represent a first step towards a new global economic growth.
‒ i agree with the report by mr zahradil, who focuses on the benefits of public-private partnerships, namely: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is based on the following principles: in addition, ppps are a tool for economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation both in the single market and beyond, and play a strategic role in the modernisation of infrastructure such as energy, digital, water and road infrastructure.
we support this theme and i find the references in the social text to the commitment of the companies involved to respect the environment and the rights of workers important.
this is done through innovative policies and new instruments to boost the dynamism of economic actors to boost sustainable growth, including through investment outside the single market.
the report therefore stresses the need to stimulate decent job creation, competitiveness and productivity within the eu and in third countries through new direct instruments to boost sustainable growth.
‒ we welcome this draft resolution, which is necessary because it is clear that the construction, operation and maintenance of infrastructure in the field of transport, public buildings and structures, the environment, telecommunications or energy networks, or the development of new technologies, involves certain potential benefits and risks that the private and public sectors can share.
the opportunities offered by public-private partnerships, both for non-eu companies and for european smes, can be best exploited through better timeliness and budgetary constraints, good value for money, long-term financing of construction costs, incentives for innovation and research, involvement of the private sector also in project management, a more flexible and specialised management environment, resource benefits for companies, strengthening the competitiveness of eu companies to participate in public procurement in third countries.
as ppps are a tool for economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation, both in the single market and beyond, and play a strategic role in the modernisation of infrastructure, particularly energy, water, road and digital infrastructure, i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
i believe that it is necessary to stimulate decent job creation, competitiveness and productivity within the eu and in third countries through innovative policies and new instruments aimed at promoting the dynamism of economic actors to revive sustainable growth, including through investment outside the single market.
i believe that public-private partnerships (ppps) can be a potential source of growth for eu businesses and at the same time be useful for our partner third countries, as they play a strategic role in the modernisation of infrastructure, in particular energy, water, road and digital infrastructure, considering that eu businesses are well prepared to compete and make such agreements work.
‒ i voted in favour because i share the positive assessments in the text about the work of these partnerships and the focus on the commitment of the companies involved to respect for the environment and workers' rights.
i voted in favour of this report to call on the european commission to combat unfair trading practices in the supply chain which affect the performance of producers, reduce their incomes and threaten the efficiency and sustainability of the sector and to strengthen incentives to encourage the creation of po and ppas and mergers between them.
i strongly hope that the european union's policy in this area will focus on strengthening the role of producer organisations (po) in order to stimulate competitiveness, increase productivity and encourage practices that are more respectful of the environment and of europe's agricultural heritage.
the individual measures should in our view focus in particular on the following elements: high unemployment and sluggish growth,high levels of public debt and excessive bureaucracy,a credit system insensitive to the demands of households and businesses,a short-sighted and ineffective approach to climate change-driven immigration policies.
the work we have done, which has been long and arduous, has created this positive atmosphere, in which the sharing of objectives is combined with the search for the best technical solution in a climate, however, of great collaboration, which was not taken for granted and which has instead been achieved.
the final agreement struck a good balance between environmental policy and industrial policy.
we have introduced important measures to offset the additional costs for businesses of european climate legislation.
i would like to mention in particular the provisions on carbon leakage and the innovation fund, which will receive 50 million co2 allowances.
to consolidate this necessary combination of climate change and industrial policy, the ets reform will need to find a good compromise, particularly in two respects.
so, looking ahead, we will have to worry about agreeing on the allocation to energy-intensive industries and compensation for the indirect costs of the increase in the price of co2.
i hope that the number of allocations for energy-intensive industries will not be revised downwards: we must protect our industries and especially those sectors which are at risk of being relocated.
of course, it's important to achieve the 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, but we also have to remember that there is another goal: the manufacturer must generate at least 20% of european gdp by 2020. without industry, there is no work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second attempt to try to fix a broken instrument: the ets, a system that starts from the foolish assumption that through the market, serious and effective climate policies can be implemented.
firstly, financial speculation, because the stock market has enriched financial brokers to the detriment of the environment.
in developing countries, projects are being carried out which are immorally and illegitimately called sustainable, in total disregard of the human rights of the people who live there.
but this is a review of the system: the market stability reserve is to bring the co2 value back to levels that are acceptable and that can actually provide an incentive for the industrial system to move towards sustainability and emission reductions.
commissioner, you have made a commitment, we are sure you will honour it, but we are sure that it is necessary to give, before the cop21 in paris, a strong signal from a europe that wants to be still a leader in the fight against climate change and that wants to give an indication, also with the instrument we will vote tomorrow, about a strong will to have a sustainable future for our industrial system.
the price of co2 emission allowances has become too low and this low price has not incentivised innovation and eco-sustainable conversion processes.
that is why the stabilization reserve is good, a fair price, certainty for businesses; the 50 million quota fund to support low-carbon industrial innovation projects is good.
this is the right way, a way that does not conflict with the environment, the fight against climate change with the productive future of our country and europe.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
on behalf of the envi committee i would ask that the resources allocated to all the headings on the environment, public health and food safety, although limited in number, be in line with the multiannual programming and at least be maintained at the levels of previous years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cross-border nature of the threats to the internal security of the european union requires measures and instruments of the same nature: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive products.
migrant and human trafficking, arms trafficking, drug trafficking and environmental and financial crimes have or are having a huge human, social and economic impact, affecting fundamental rights, health and the environment.
the europe 2020 strategy itself calls for us to create the conditions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, aiming at increasing the employment rate, creating quality and quantity of lasting jobs, reducing the school drop-out rate and increasing the level of tertiary education.
we can help develop sustainable, safe, adequate pension systems for women and men, with schemes that guarantee decent income support.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
we are finally realizing that, following the alarming signals coming from our planet, the two dimensions, the economic and the ecological, coexist and not only create wealth and employment synergistically.
and we're talking about some really important numbers here: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i would like to mention some of the most important measures, which have been taken up by mrs lambert, and i am very happy to hear her say so, namely the elimination of all direct and indirect subsidies which are harmful to the environment, including those for fossil fuels, the shifting of taxation from labour to environmental pollution and the use of resources in the spirit of the polluter pays principle.
finally, the introduction of a system of tax relief for smes, the real backbone of europe, through appropriate tax relief instruments for those companies producing products and services with high environmental added value.
we women are underrepresented in the technological and scientific disciplines which are strategic for environmental issues and for entrepreneurship in general and we often have lower salaries, with equal skills and responsibilities.
as mothers, we are the ones who are most sensitive to environmental policies and our involvement can certainly add value.
in this european year of development, we will make decisions that shape the world we leave to future generations: the new sustainable development goals, the climate conference and, in a few days' time, the third international conference on financing for development in addis ababa.
the paris conference may be the last chance to reach an agreement on climate change.
if the package proposed was not socially sustainable, and we are sensitive to that, then you should at last make a reasonable proposal.
but only a broad political consensus based on the parameters set by un security council resolution 2216 can provide a sustainable solution to the crisis, tackle the threat of terrorist groups and prevent further regional instability.
we see a strong case for the gradual approach followed by the special envoy, first setting the conditions for a long pause in hostilities, leading to a sustainable ceasefire, coupled with a monitored withdrawal from key cities by the warring forces.
in this volatile environment it is all the more crucial that humanitarian assistance reaches the people of yemen.
the european union has been steadfast in its support of the un efforts towards a lasting, predictable and sustainable humanitarian ceasefire.
only a broad yemeni-led political consensus, responding to the legitimate grievances of all segments of yemeni society, will provide a sustainable solution to the crisis.
the subject has also been the subject of extensive study and debate in the environment committee of this parliament.
the decision on energy technology is a matter for the member states.
the decision on nuclear energy was and is a matter for our member states.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the nuclear power stations, and that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the nuclear power stations.
it is clear that the prevailing position within the committee has been that of a change in the legal basis, a change which implies, commissioner, a revision of the path, because we are talking here about food safety, we are not talking about issues related to atomic energy.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
however, this demonstrates what we have been saying for some time, that the portability of cultural content is compatible with territoriality, and it acknowledges the cultural specificity between the expansion of access to culture and the recognition of the moral and economic rights of authors, as well as the economic sustainability for cultural and creative industries, especially the audiovisual ones.
we have made it clear that the agreement must lead to greater protection of geographical indications, improve access for our agri-food products to the american market, not undermine european social and environmental standards and ensure a high level of consumer protection.
as an s&d group we have achieved important results in economic, social and environmental terms, but not the most important: a clear no to the isds.
the report highlights: (1) the strategic importance of such an agreement in eu-us relations; (2) the protection and safeguarding of investments; (3) the establishment of a democratic and transparent isds mechanism for the settlement of investment disputes between investors and states; (4) the inclusion in ttip of specific chapters on energy, smes and intellectual property; and (5) the recognition and strong legal protection of geographical indications.
the eu needs such an agreement because it will be a powerful engine for its reindustrialisation: we are waiting for a proposal that will protect the interests of businessmen, consumers, families and the environment.
this does not mean that the high principles and values which i personally believe in, such as food safety, health, the social model, the environment and data protection, are not subject to compromise unless a higher level of protection is achieved.
the agreement is a key instrument in bringing the pursuit of sustainable growth back to the centre of european action, while making a significant contribution to strengthening transatlantic relations with the united states.
it was a vote to set the framework and conditions for a good agreement that does not lower our european standards on the environment, social standards, animal welfare and cultural diversity.
parliament is quite clear that european standards should not be 'lowered', as they are necessary to ensure sustainable and inclusive growth.
i believe that ttip represents a challenge and an opportunity for european businesses, creating the world's largest free trade area, but within which environmental, social and safety standards must always be guaranteed for the benefit of european citizens.
it is important, however, that a balanced and transparent agreement is reached which promotes a win-win economic environment without compromising the health and safety of consumers and the competitiveness of our industrial system.
such a system would allow us multinationals investing in europe to bypass any national or european court and sue the governments of the member states directly, which could be induced to relax or even abandon the enactment of laws to protect labour, health, the environment, etc.
we are well aware that ttip is likely to contain agreements which will undermine europe's position in many key areas, particularly in sensitive areas such as agriculture, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, food safety, animal welfare and environmental protection.
‒ as is well known, the stabilisation and association agreement reflects the union's willingness and commitment to integrate potential candidate countries into europe's political and economic environment.
‒ the european parliament's committee on industry, research and energy has approved the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and the faroe islands, associating the danish islands to the horizon 2020 programme, the eu's research and innovation framework programme which provides considerable funds, and making them one of the 12 countries associated to the research and innovation programme.
horizon 2020 is the new framework programme for research and innovation of the european union, providing a funding framework of approximately eur 77 billion for investments in research and innovation and for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, thereby increasing cooperation between industry and research.
the european parliament has wanted, with this report, for which i voted in favour, to take a first step towards aligning the objectives of medium and large investors with those of the economy as a whole in seeking to create widespread and sustainable prosperity.
the solution is to give minority shareholders, and therefore institutional investors, a more influential role in a more transparent environment.
‒ this text, which is fundamental in many respects, is the result of a compromise that necessarily excluded certain issues, but which also allowed a valid text to be brought to the plenary to move the governance of companies towards more ethically sustainable working methods.
‒ i voted in favour of the report presented by mr cofferati on long-term shareholder engagement and the report on corporate governance, which aims to contribute to the long-term sustainability of eu companies, create favourable conditions for shareholders and improve cross-border exercise of voting rights by increasing the efficiency of the equity investment chain in order to contribute to growth, job creation and competitiveness in the eu.
i voted in favour of the cofferati report because, although it contains significant gaps, it introduces two important innovations: the obligation for multinational companies to declare profits generated and taxes paid in each country in which they operate, and a system of incentives to promote the long-term participation and social sustainability of companies.
so, finally, the compromise is 2019. i supported it because i was aware that some change in the market had to happen if the current situation was not sustainable in the long term.
mr president, the european union has finally decided to improve the system for trading greenhouse gas emission allowances.
the recession and the allocation of emission allowances have long led to an excess of allowances, with a consequent collapse in the price of carbon.
it goes without saying that a low carbon price does not stimulate industry to make its plants more efficient and to avoid using polluting fuels, such as coal, and it is an obstacle to the transition to cleaner energy funds.
the surplus allowances will eventually be put into a reserve, the so-called market stability reserve, which will aim to stabilise the carbon market, lead to an increase in the price of carbon and thus encourage industries to pollute less and invest in more efficient infrastructure and cleaner energy sources.
‒ the report and the text on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the market stabilisation reserve in the eu greenhouse gas emission trading scheme are a useful step towards putting the system adopted by the european union in 2003 back on track.
the union's emissions trading system (eu ets) has been particularly affected by distortions since the beginning of the economic crisis, which have progressively led to an imbalance between supply and demand.
the amended text has the advantage of addressing the key points that need to ensure the transition to a low-carbon economy, acting directly on the supply and demand side to ensure the true value of allowances.
a reform that must combine environmental sustainability, technological innovation and industrial competitiveness.
‒ i decided to vote in favour of this proposal because i am convinced that the introduction of a market stabilisation reserve in the eu's greenhouse gas emission trading system will allow the system to function better by giving it the flexibility and capacity to cope with changing market conditions or protect the ets from unexpected and sudden shocks in demand.
‒ greenhouse gases are a major factor in altering the planet's environmental balance and are the main cause of global warming.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions means not only stopping pollution, but also preventing tropical climate change and limiting the impact of natural disasters, with positive consequences for the health and safety of citizens, the environment and economic savings.
we must not only reduce emissions of polluting gases (the 40% reduction target for 2030 is certainly a positive step, an important step on the road to full environmental sustainability, not the final goal), but also improve electricity grids, integrating them and supporting measures to make them more efficient.
the implementation of energy-saving technologies is useful in reducing the high energy demands in the union by making consumption more efficient and making the use of electricity cheaper for citizens.
‒ to ensure compliance with the kyoto protocol's obligations to reduce emissions of climate-changing gases, the eu has created an emissions trading market through the emission trading scheme directive (directive 2003/87/ec).
the very idea that the price of gas emissions can be left to market laws is wrong.
the text also does not include measures which we proposed to raise the price of co2 rapidly, so as to potentially accelerate the stimulus to energy innovation.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a parliament and council decision on the establishment and operation of a market stabilisation reserve in the eu's greenhouse gas emission trading system (ets).
on 22 january 2014, the commission presented a proposal for a market stabilisation reserve, together with a communication on the 2020 to 2030 framework for energy and climate policies.
the commission proposal aims to make structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets) to deal with the surplus of emission allowances, currently estimated at over 2 billion, and to remedy the shortcomings of the system so that it can achieve the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner, as required by the ets directive.
in order to achieve the objectives of effective reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the emissions trading system (ets) needs to be made more effective.
the surplus of allowances, unfortunately, jeopardises the long-term effectiveness of this system, making the trading mechanism obsolete and therefore an effective reduction in emissions.
‒ the ets is the main instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, based on cost-effectiveness and economic efficiency.
however, the current surplus of allowances is detrimental to the long-term effectiveness of the system, undermining its proper functioning and significantly increasing the price of carbon.
‒ m5s has challenged the idea that the pricing of climate-changing gas emissions can be left to market laws.
added to this is the risk of exposing the carbon market to tax fraud, such as those that have exposed at least €5 billion of tax evasion by european taxpayers.
we supported the amendments proposed by environmental ngos to limit the activation of the mechanisms of the reserve with a tighter scissors; increase the quota to be moved to/from the reserve from 100 m to 50 m; to cancel the 900m allowances blocked from backloading by bringing the entry into force of the reserve forward to 2017. these measures would have allowed a higher co2 price to be formed quickly by accelerating the stimulus to innovation for reducing emissions.
‒ on 22 january 2014, the european commission presented a proposal for a market stabilisation reserve for energy and climate policies for the period 2020-2030. the commission's text aims to make structural changes to the ets to deal with excess emissions and to remedy the shortcomings of the system in order to achieve reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ i supported the report by mr belet on the proposal for a parliament and council decision on the establishment and operation of a market stabilisation reserve in the eu's greenhouse gas emission trading system.
the objective of reducing carbon dioxide emissions is one of the main challenges for the europe of the future, for a europe that acts as a leader in climate negotiations and is a leader in environmental protection.
i also welcome the launch of initiatives to stimulate new low-carbon technologies and innovative industrial processes.
the market stability reserve is an efficient instrument which will help us to stabilise the ets (emissions trading system) and thus save the backbone of european climate and energy policy.
the new legislation is satisfactory for all parties involved in the negotiations, and this result has been possible thanks to a balancing act between the protection of climate prerogatives and the competitiveness of our companies, focusing on innovation and efficiency.
the reform confirms the european union as the main actor in the fight against climate change, with concrete facts to be presented in view of the next cop 21 in paris, hoping that an ambitious agreement will be reached.
‒ the draft resolution on the creation of a market stabilisation reserve in the eu's greenhouse gas emission trading system is approved.
the purpose of this proposal is to set up a market reserve in order to set a target of 40% reduction in gas emissions by the year 2030. the committee also supports the rapporteur's position on the need to identify new ways of allocating free allowances, particularly with regard to production levels and more efficient installations.
the rapporteur's proposal to allocate part of the allowances in the reserve to be used for investment in low-carbon technologies and industrial processes should be approved.
‒ the report by mr belet proposes a corrective system, the aim of which is to address a structural deficiency in the ets, which has so far not been able to allow sufficient flexibility in the supply of greenhouse gas emission allowances to cope with changing market conditions.
‒ we welcome this measure as necessary to achieve the greenhouse gas emission reduction target.
the reform of the emissions trading system (ets) is aimed at correcting the shortcomings of the system and allowing it to function as originally intended.
‒ the stability reserve provides for a cut in surplus greenhouse gas emission allowances, helping to stabilise the carbon market and enabling the emissions of these gases to be reduced efficiently.
the reform of the allowance trading system is an important pillar in the challenging path towards a better environmental sustainability policy.
the european union is reiterating its commitment to the environment by taking a leading role in the fight against the greenhouse effect and climate change.
‒ i support the committee's report on the benefits of introducing a stabilisation reserve on the market and agree that it is necessary for the ets to remain at the heart of the eu's co2 reduction policy, whereas otherwise the ets would be on the verge of collapse (without an investment incentive for the carbon price) and there would be nothing left but a return to the 'nationalisation' of climate policy.
in my view, this would be a failure of all the aims and progress made by the union, and above all i believe that the common climate policy is essential to achieve the international objectives set.
‒ in january 2014, the commission adopted the ets-msr proposal with the aim of making structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets) to address the surplus of emission allowances (currently estimated at over two billion).
in particular, the commission proposed that a market stability reserve be created as from 2021. i believe that the proposal is in the right direction in order to stabilise the emissions trading market and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of the report.
‒ in line with the position of my group, the epp, i voted in favour of the final report of the negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission on the introduction of the 'market stabilisation reserve in the eu greenhouse gas emission trading scheme'.
despite initial fears, the compromise reached will not be too bad for industry, especially energy-intensive industries, although it will certainly lead to an increase in the price of emission allowances.
the ets was conceived at a time when co2 emissions were much more linked to the production area.
today, with the shifting of emissions, it is difficult for the ets to achieve its overall emission reduction targets.
‒ i voted today in favour of the report introducing a market stability reserve in the context of the greenhouse gas emissions trading system.
the economic crisis, together with excessive free allocations, had reduced the price of emissions to a level that rendered the entire emissions market completely inefficient.
‒ the european parliament today approved the reform of the european emissions trading system (ets), which aims to reduce the surplus of emission allowances allocated to the market in order to support their price and thus facilitate the reduction of co2 emissions.
this is a very important vote as the economic crisis and the oversupply of allowances under the eu emissions trading system (ets) has led to a significant destabilisation of the system.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union, the european atomic energy community and switzerland.
the measure in question associates switzerland with the horizon 2020 framework programme (2014-2020) for research and innovation and with the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community which complements horizon 2020 and governs the participation of the swiss confederation in the activities of the fusion for energy joint undertaking for the implementation of iter.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe it is important to increase scientific and technological cooperation between the european union, the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation.
the objectives of the horizon 2020 research and innovation programme should therefore be pursued further and we should continue to work together to develop controlled fusion energy, which could provide a concrete solution to the problems of energy dependency and security.
‒ on 15 november 2013, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations, on behalf of the union and euratom, with the swiss confederation in order to conclude an agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 and regulating the participation of switzerland in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
the latter is a large-scale scientific experiment to demonstrate the validity of fusion as a source of energy.
i voted in favour of mr buzek's proposal for the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu, the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation.
‒ with today's vote, the itre committee followed up on the provisional agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community, on the one hand, and the swiss confederation, on the other, which associates the confederation with horizon 2020, an integrated funding programme for research, innovation and technology.
we consider it essential to associate the swiss confederation with the community research and innovation programme horizon 2020 and with the research and training programme for the activities carried out by the fusion for energy joint undertaking for the construction of iter.
the latter will in particular serve as a basis for various joint research and development activities concerning new fusion energy policies.
the eu-switzerland cooperation will cover only certain parts of the programme, namely 'excellent science', the first pillar of horizon 2020, actions under the specific objective 'spreading excellence and widening participation', and the activities carried out by the 'fusion for energy' joint undertaking (ju) for the construction of iter ('international thermonuclear experimental reactor'), an international initiative for the construction and testing of a nuclear fusion reactor in cadarache, france.
i find it important to involve switzerland in the development of projects in the context of horizon 2020, in particular with regard to the activities carried out by fusion for energy.
i voted in favour of this report because it highlighted the importance of creating quality and sustainable jobs, decent working conditions and wages, of promoting the fight against poverty, of achieving the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy through the european semester and of succeeding in reducing labour market segmentation and inequalities by fighting job insecurity.
‒ the deep and protracted economic crisis continues to have a serious impact on employment in all countries; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the report focuses on a number of important issues such as the creation of sustainable and quality jobs, decent working conditions and wages, the fight against poverty, the reduction of labour market segmentation, gender equality and the reduction of inequalities by combating job insecurity.
on the contrary, as european socialists and democrats, we believe that new, quality and sustainable jobs must be created and that to do this we need a more comprehensive economic strategy that promotes growth and redistributes investment, and last but not least that workers must be adequately paid and protected in the workplace.
member states and the union should work towards developing an effective and coordinated strategy for employment, aimed at countering the serious effects of unemployment and promoting a competent and skilled workforce and labour markets that are responsive to economic, social and environmental change.
bringing the european union to a state of strong, sustainable and inclusive growth and job creation, thus eliminating the large pockets of unemployment found in certain areas of its territory, is the most important challenge facing the union today.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the main objectives of the union, which it must pursue, therefore also through its budget, must be full employment, the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the reference to sustainable growth in the european union is fundamental.
in reallocating investment, member states should consider environment and climate policies as an opportunity to promote growth.
in particular, the proper implementation of environmental legislation and projects funded under horizon 2020 will support the creation of green jobs and economic growth among smes.
in addition, in my role as co-chair of the european parliament's life working group, i cannot help but agree with the report in welcoming the increase in both commitment and payment appropriations for the life programme for the environment and climate action.
the european commission has also proposed to reduce the number of projects in the field of environmental protection.
furthermore, as stated in its resolution of 11 march 2015, the european parliament has placed the creation of decent and quality jobs and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union, together with internal and external solidarity in a secure europe, at the heart of its priorities for the 2016 budget.
given the complexity of the institutional procedure behind the adoption of the union budget, it is important that the european parliament sits at the negotiating table with the other institutions involved, and can take account of proposals that are sustainable and shared across the board.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a transition to a green economy would bring enormous benefits not only to the environment but also to employment and the european labour market, especially through the creation of local jobs that cannot be relocated, in areas that cannot be transferred abroad and in crisis-hit sectors such as construction.
i consider this issue to be absolutely fundamental: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances and their by-products is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
the development of new sectors focusing on innovation and pollution reduction, recycling, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy should therefore be strongly encouraged, bearing in mind that they can make an important contribution to job creation.
‒ the report is a good text and incorporates many of our requests, such as the development of a database of training and job offers and best practices for the development of green employment, the centrality of research and the introduction of criteria to favour companies that have a virtuous and sustainable waste disposal cycle.
the report highlights: 1) environmental tax reform; 2) energy and resource efficiency and 3) the development of the supply chain and the role of smes.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that climate issues are one of the most important challenges of our time.
the green jobs initiative, launched by the commission in july 2014, promotes the creation of new jobs and business opportunities linked to a transition to new sustainable business and corporate models.
efforts in this direction would make it possible to tackle, in addition to climate-related issues, other equally important challenges such as unemployment and energy dependence.
in times of economic crisis such as the present, i believe it is important to invest in and encourage new high-tech sectors such as renewable energy, while promoting green innovation in traditional sectors such as manufacturing, construction, agriculture and tourism.
this proposal therefore represents an important step towards a sustainable economic transition that will produce tangible benefits in all sectors and is a starting point for reducing unemployment and encouraging economic growth.
‒ the transition to an eco-sustainable society and economy offers the potential to create new green jobs in almost all sectors, such as renewable energy, agriculture, fisheries, manufacturing and construction.
although this transition will have a positive impact overall, it is also true that the european union is still unprepared for this development for several reasons: firms that would like to take action to make their business environmentally sustainable are not sure they can manage the risk or the process of change; the fact that the number of workers with the necessary skills is not guaranteed is due to the fact that there are still very few students who acquire skills in technology, science, engineering and mathematics.
i can only be in favour of this report on green employment because, in addition to being an excellent report, it has also welcomed the opinion of the committee on the environment, for which i was rapporteur, which in particular aims to: phasing out environmentally harmful direct and indirect subsidies, including those for fossil fuels; developing models to shift taxation from labour to environmental pollution and to take account of the environmental impact of goods and services in line with the polluter pays principle; introducing tax exemptions and/or targeted subsidies for start-ups, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises providing products and services with high environmental added value, including low overall carbon content.
specifically, improving resource efficiency could generate between 1.4 and 2.8 million jobs, and waste prevention, eco-design and reuse could save our businesses a net €600 billion.
‒ we are of course in favour of employment and the environment, but this text has been exploited with an objectively excessive emphasis on 'green' places and with unrealistic considerations.
i voted in favour of this report, hoping that the eu will increasingly have a reformist spirit, focusing on the needs of its citizens, and combining work, business and the environment in a positive and pragmatic way.
support for smes that invest in a green economy, creating jobs and ensuring sustainable welfare, must be a policy of all states.
in its 2015 report, the european environment agency highlighted the inadequacy of some current measures to meet the objectives of protecting biodiversity, reducing fossil fuel use, combating climate change and preventing its impact on human health and the environment.
this report underlines that a transition to sustainable societies and economies, including sustainable production and consumption patterns, has the potential to create new quality employment.
the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
eu member states, at the 2010 cancún conference, committed themselves to combating climate change and to taking concrete and targeted action, with particular regard to training and retraining for workers, innovative approaches and investment and incentives for businesses.
the rapporteur's proposal to implement coherent policies, in line with sustainable growth, aimed at exploiting the potential of a green economy and, above all, for fairer social inclusion, is fully supported.
‒ the objective of the green economy is to reduce the consumption of energy and raw materials, to the benefit of a renewed well-being of ecosystems.
‒ in adopting this report, we underlined the need to establish a coherent and long-term policy framework to stimulate a sustainable economy, capable of providing a predictable environment for investment in renewable energy.
the need for an industrial strategy to target and encourage investment in renewable energy industries that could create more jobs is undeniable.
we therefore call on the commission and the member states to adopt ambitious, long-term and integrated regulatory, fiscal and financial frameworks for sustainable investment and to encourage innovation, thus fully exploiting the employment potential of these changes.
the transition to sustainable societies and economies will offer the opportunity to create new green jobs and to make existing jobs environmentally friendly in almost all sectors and along the entire value chain, from research to manufacturing, distribution to care, in new high-tech environmentally friendly sectors such as renewable energy, and in traditional sectors such as industry, construction, agriculture and fisheries, as well as in services such as tourism, catering, transport and education.
‒ i am voting in favour of the report on the green economy, as it supports sustainable economic activities aimed at creating quality jobs.
today we must take responsibility for the environment with a view to ensuring a better future for future generations, and thanks also to the continuing progress of technology, i think there are no longer any excuses for not acting in this dignified direction.
it focuses on a number of key issues, including energy efficiency, supply chain development and the role of small and medium-sized enterprises.
with this vote in favour i think it is useful to point out that the transition to green work presents new challenges and opportunities for the current labour market and for regions such as sicily and sardinia which are able to rely on renewable energy.
‒ i voted in favour of the report presented by mr lambert, which focuses on a number of key issues including environmental tax reform, energy and resource efficiency and the development of the supply chain, also highlighting the role of smes.
our aim to support the transition to a low-carbon and sustainable society must be combined with equally sustainable production and consumption models, which have the potential to create new quality jobs and to transform existing ones into green jobs in almost all sectors and along the entire value chain in order to help maintain europe's economic and industrial competitiveness.
the development of new employment models would allow for the anticipation of future skills needs: i therefore believe that it is necessary for curricula and training courses to include programmes to raise awareness of environmental protection.
from the point of view of social policy, this fund can alleviate energy poverty by promoting energy-efficient housing and by encouraging job creation, particularly for young people.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is the union's task to support developing countries in creating efficient and sustainable tax systems that enable them to combat tax evasion and avoidance effectively.
at the meeting, global donors, including the european union, will be invited to discuss financing for development in the coming years, with a view to adopting a more robust and inclusive but also realistic financial framework for achieving the sustainable development goals (sdgs), negotiations for which will begin in september.
it is useless to define new sustainable development goals without a real agreement and a strategy on the resources that the community will put in place to achieve them.
it also called for fair, balanced, efficient and transparent fiscal policies to be developed with a view to fostering sustainable and long-term administrative reforms in this group of countries.
‒ 2015 is the year of development and various initiatives are taking place across the european union and in third countries to set new goals for sustainable development.
moreover, human health, ecosystems and biodiversity would benefit.
the report under consideration sets ambitious targets such as increasing resource efficiency (30% more by 2030) and higher targets for waste recycling (70% of municipal solid waste and 80% of packaging materials).
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i wholeheartedly support the text we voted on today, which is a first step in this complex but essential transition process.
‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the circular economy because i believe that the work done is going in the right direction, although important amendments concerning, for example, the ban on incineration and the introduction of mandatory national waste management plans were not passed in the committee on the environment (envi).
the final text adopted by parliament calls unequivocally on the european commission to come forward with a proposal that can replace the current development model of unlimited growth, while knowing that resources are limited, and that can start the process of transition to a circular economy, based on sustainable consumption.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the transformation of our economic system into a circular economy system would bring enormous benefits to the union in terms of both the environment and the economy and employment, allowing for a significant reduction in co2 emissions and the creation of a large number of new jobs.
‒ raising the targets in existing waste treatment directives is useful to accelerate the transition to the circular economy model.
in the circular economy, there is no waste: waste is no longer just waste, it becomes a resource.
with the circular economy, waste disappears through reuse, repair and recycling applied at every stage of the commercial chain.
extending the productive use of materials, reusing them and increasing their efficiency is useful not only to tackle waste management issues from a non-emergency perspective, but also to strengthen the eu's competitiveness on the world stage.
the impact of this approach on the european real economy is positive because research and innovation, which are key to the success of the plan, are closely linked to green economy investments on the ground: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work.
the concept of circular economy, like others of its kind (such as cradle-to-cradle, industrial ecology and natural capitalism), suggests the development, through innovation, of industrial-scale strategies aimed at a complete decoupling between physical growth in throughput and non-physical (financial) growth in gdp (so-called 'green' or 'sustainable' growth).
the mainstream of the sustainable development movement is based on the deep conviction that, with the right technological innovations, economic growth and environmental protection can be complementary rather than in conflict; however, this view ignores, misrepresents or underestimates the biophysical limits to human production and consumption that are drawn by system dynamics and thermodynamics.
the commission has announced a proposal for a review of waste legislation.
the commission must be obliged to present it by 2015, including clear and unambiguous definitions, the development of waste prevention measures, the application of the 'pay as you throw' principle and the strict limitation of incinerators.
i hope that the commission will be able to take these inputs and be able to push member states towards a paradigm shift towards an economic system where the materials and energy used to manufacture products retain their value for as long as possible, thereby reducing waste and resource use and at the same time creating economic opportunities and competitive advantages on a sustainable basis.
‒ the report of the honourable member indicates to the commission what actions should be included in the proposal that the commission is preparing on the circular economy and the revision of european waste legislation.
the own-initiative report is ambitious and highlights that the unsustainable use of resources is causing immense environmental damage and at the same time represents a major economic risk.
‒ economic development based on the linear growth model is no longer sustainable or viable, not only because of the scarcity of available raw materials but also because of the amount of waste that this type of 'take, produce, use and throw away' system has generated.
a reversal of the trend is therefore inevitable, and a new process is needed which considers waste as a resource to be fed back into the production cycle.
there are about 600 million tonnes of waste in europe with the potential for reuse, and if we want to build an economic system based on sustainable growth and efficient use of resources, we must encourage the reuse and recycling of products.
new targets and objectives for waste recycling should therefore be identified.
we therefore hope that the commission will soon present an ambitious package of circular economy measures needed to stimulate growth and protect the environment.
the text under consideration contains a number of proposals aimed at ensuring a more efficient use of resources and minimising the volume of waste.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it appropriately encourages a more efficient use of resources and contains sound proposals to steer the economy towards the necessary reduction in the volume of waste.
given that europe still imports most of its energy from third countries, i believe that in order to move towards greater energy independence we need to promote a more efficient use of resources.
this process will lead to greater environmental, social and economic benefits.
if we are to reverse the trend towards unsustainable waste and avoid irreversible damage to the environment, it will be important to identify the weaknesses in our production system and to find appropriate solutions.
it will therefore be important to establish common rules and effective implementation mechanisms so as to ensure a transition towards a more sustainable european economy in all its member countries.
unfortunately, unsustainable use of resources brings with it serious risks such as climate change, desertification, deforestation and biodiversity loss.
to remedy this, a policy framework to support resource efficiency combined with ambitious environmental targets and strict rules is needed.
first of all, it is essential: stop the continuous extraction of raw materials, such as water, which is used not only during the production cycle but also as a public good; increasing the life cycle of products, their durability, reusability and recyclability; review waste legislation, seeking to tackle the illegal export of post-consumer waste and formulating clear collection and recycling targets; developing a strategic framework on resource efficiency in buildings as well as indicators, standards, methods and quality requirements for spatial and urban planning; the commission has also set up a network of experts to help the member states to develop their environmental policies.
i voted in favour of this resolution because a more efficient use of resources would reduce resource dependency and bring environmental and economic savings through the creation of new green and local jobs.
the resolution calls on member states to increase resource efficiency by 30% by 2030, to fully implement the cascade of resource use and sustainable sourcing, to fully implement the polluter pays principle and producer responsibility, to use renewable energy and a waste hierarchy, and to apply taxes for landfilling and waste incineration.
as regards waste, i regret that the resolution does not include a general ban on incineration and landfilling, despite the fact that incineration is clearly a linear economic practice.
europe continues to produce and waste an enormous amount of waste, causing the well-known environmental and waste disposal problems: some of this waste must be reusable.
the circular economy principle aims to turn waste into raw materials for other businesses, and as such it needs to be adequately supported.
i therefore share the call on the european commission to come forward with legislative proposals not only in the field of waste but also in other key areas of the circular economy such as food waste, eco-products, manufacturing and packaging, promoting the reuse and recyclability of products that are consumed.
finally, they agree on the objectives of reducing municipal solid waste and recycled packaging and on the call to increase european resource efficiency by 30% by 2020.
in writing.
‒ by adopting this report, we wanted to send a very important political message: the continued unsustainable use of resources is causing irreparable environmental damage and poses a serious economic risk to the planet.
the ecological implications are multiple and in many cases irreversible: the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the criteria for the selection of the beneficiary countries.
considering that the circular economy makes the product a resource for someone else at any stage of its "life", it will also be the starting point for the creation of new jobs and will certainly provide the opportunity to create new sustainable business models.
‒ in july 2014, the european commission presented the 'circular economy package', which includes the communication 'towards a circular economy: a zero waste agenda for europe'.
this is certainly an important legislative proposal which could have considerable implications not only in terms of environmental protection but also in economic terms.
in particular, i believe that the proposal does not take due account of certain aspects of full respect for the principle of subsidiarity, as some issues relating to the proper management of waste should, in my view, be left to the member states to decide.
the report presented by mr pietikäinen presents several controversial points, including the proposal to introduce binding targets for resource efficiency and waste reduction, new legislation for ecodesign and measures to break the link between growth and use of natural resources.
‒ i voted against because, while i share the need for greater protection of the environment, i consider the text to be too unbalanced in that it does not take the needs of workers and businesses into account.
‒ with today's vote, the european parliament calls on the commission to review european directives and standards on eco-design, waste management, the building sector and sustainable food to promote a more efficient use of resources.
we have a responsibility to future generations to use resources in a more sustainable way by, for example, encouraging recycling and recovery of materials and reducing the number of landfills and marine litter.
however, we must avoid the imposition of new environmental protection standards which would lead to additional costs and administrative burdens, undermining the competitiveness of our production system.
the commission is also asked to include in its proposal for a revision of waste legislation several important points, including an increase in the recycling rate of at least 70% of municipal solid waste, binding reduction targets for municipal, commercial and industrial waste and a strict limitation of incinerators.
the amendment, proposed by us from the five star movement together with the greens, to introduce targets for the reuse of materials in order to prevent and reduce waste generation, was rejected.
it is crucial today to maximise resource efficiency while minimising the amount of waste produced.
i am particularly in favour of binding targets for waste reduction by 2025 at local government, commercial and industrial levels.
i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by which parliament tells the european commission what to include in the legislative proposal on the circular economy and the revision of european waste legislation.
my favourable position is justified by the fact that the unsustainable use of resources is causing damage to the environment and the ecosystem and also represents an economic risk.
our delegation tabled several amendments - many of which have been accepted - which were aimed at encouraging the introduction of the certificate of origin; the application of reduced or eliminated vat to recycled and reclaimed products; a separate objective on the reuse of materials to prevent and reduce waste generation; the prohibition of incineration; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
environmental declarations for construction products and demolition methods allowing materials to be recovered for reuse or recycling and, finally, to set a target for reuse at european level.
after the chernobyl disaster, the long-term effects of radioactive pollution became known to all.
there are numerous and extensive studies demonstrating the serious effects on humans, animals, plants and the environment in general.
‒ i do not support this report because the proposal is unacceptable given the proposed limits on radioactivity: the same as in 1989, but with very different environmental conditions to today in 2015.
in writing.
i believe that the european union must commit itself to ensuring the highest standards of safety for citizens and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the report adopted by the committee on the environment on maximum permitted levels of radioactivity following a nuclear accident.
moreover, these investments produce far-reaching benefits throughout society, with important economic, social and environmental consequences, as opposed to mere short-term speculation.
the cmu will be able to foster the internalisation of smes, which form the fabric of the economy in the various european countries, and if properly designed and balanced, will be able to foster a diversification of the sources of finance for smes, which have been dependent on the banking sector, and foster long-term investment, which the eu needs to lay a solid foundation for sustainable growth.
i therefore agree with mr balz when he says that we must make sure that smes can actually benefit from this union, that we must improve the investment climate in europe.
on the contrary, the return to growth requires solving the credit crunch, boosting aggregate demand and creating a favourable environment for public investment, especially in innovation.
the report voted in the afet, while openly condemning the continuing violations of the right to freedom of religion and belief, stresses the importance of the energy issue in the mediterranean as a possible way of stimulating regional cooperation, promoting stability and ensuring environmental integrity.
as the kukan report underlines, the eu should promote an active dialogue with all civil society actors, first and foremost citizens, which is crucial to initiating and making sustainable those economic and political reforms that ensure not only economic development but also the full completion of the democratization process in our neighbourhood.
it is essential that the eu identifies with its partners priorities for joint integration in the economic, political, environmental, conflict prevention and migration fields, which have been at the centre of a major eu-wide debate in recent months.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i am convinced that, given the enormous change in the technological environment, which has profoundly changed the market for works of art, there is a need for harmonisation of copyright, especially with a view to a digital single market, in which digital works of art will play a fundamental role.
the perception of the beauty - or even the problematic - of our urban environment must be elevated, not restricted, and freely transmitted and shared.
i therefore voted in favour of this resolution to promote sustainable, inclusive and culturally pluralistic growth in the eu.
‒ the european endowment for democracy (eed) promotes and encourages the implementation of sustainable democracy in countries affected by a political transition process, and in societies struggling for democratization.
the evaluation carried out by the afet committee gave a very positive picture of the activities of the fund, which fulfils its main objective of promoting and encouraging democratization and deep-rooted and sustainable democracy in countries undergoing political transition and in societies struggling for democratization.
the june 29 election was already held in a climate of intimidation, violence and the restriction of the main fundamental freedoms of the opposition and civil society, including freedom of expression and information.
despite the coup's failure, burundi remains a turbulent and tense environment.
every day we witness stories of denied rights, and we don't have to go beyond europe's borders to find them: children born with cancer due to toxic waste and illegal landfills, 122 million poor people, many of whom have no income from citizenship and therefore no means to survive, austerity measures that impose cuts in health and welfare, leading to the suspension of the supply of medicines in public pharmacies or even the closure of hospitals.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
this shows that the contribution of scientific studies on this subject is being ignored, and that the precautionary principle, which is the basis of economic sustainability, for which we will continue to fight, is being completely ignored.
as shadow rapporteur for the s&d group on the empl committee's opinion to the itre committee, i have shared from the outset the need to fully exploit all the opportunities offered by the 'blue economy', to contribute to the sustainable use of marine resources and to stimulate growth and employment in the eu, through the creation of quality jobs in sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, maritime transport, seabed research, biotechnology, tourism, as well as all activities that can be carried out on land such as yachting, the processing industries and integrated development of the environment, promoting the social integration of vulnerable groups and women, taking into account the environmental risks arising from any source of pollution.
however, in order to turn the potential of the blue economy into real development opportunities, the commission needs to put in place actions to make access to public credit and funding more accessible to smes, to promote labour mobility and skills and to support activities linked to sustainable and responsible fishing.
finally, a balance must be struck between the economic, social and environmental dimensions of a sustainable integrated maritime policy, which are often underestimated.
this is a cornerstone of eu environment policy.
therefore i welcome sustainable development goal 6, which aims to ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all.
the commission will build on existing legislation and policies to continue to increase and improve access to safe drinking water and sanitation for the whole population through environmental policies and infrastructure funding.
the eu has decided on a "total" ban, with only two exceptions: products from hunting by inuit or other indigenous communities (ic derogation) and products from hunting on a small scale and not for profit for the sole purpose of ensuring sustainable management of marine resources (mrm derogation).
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the ban, which came into force in 2010, allowed for two exceptions: one for the products of hunting by indigenous tribes and the other for hunting that ensured sustainable "management of marine resources".
‒ the european parliament already in 2009 spoke out against the trade in seal products, both those made in eu countries and those imported, opting for a 'total' ban, with two main exceptions for products from hunting by inuit or other indigenous communities and those from hunting only on a small scale and not for profit, for the sole purpose of ensuring sustainable management of marine resources.
‒ in 2009, the european union opted for a 'total' ban on trade in seal products with two main exceptions: for products of hunting by inuit and other indigenous communities (so-called ic exceptions) and for products of hunting for the sole purpose of sustainable, small-scale and non-profit management of marine resources (so-called mrm exception).
however, the marketing of products derived from this type of hunting activity needs to be part of an international regulatory framework, in order to ensure greater respect for the environment and the life cycles of wildlife.
i believe that we need to promote the protection of natural biodiversity and bio-economic sustainability, while respecting the traditions and culture of certain countries.
the health of all european citizens and the preservation of environmental diversity must be protected by private financial interests.
i agree with the views expressed in the draft joint report of the environment and agriculture committees on animal cloning for agricultural purposes.
‒ i voted in favour of this report with the aim of improving the efficiency of the cap, avoiding the waste of valuable economic resources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because blue growth is an important lever for the eu's sustainable development.
an economy with strong potential for job growth, such as activities linked to sustainable maritime and coastal tourism.
however, this economy will only be able to exploit its full potential if it can combine sustainable business development with a good ecological status of the coastal and maritime environment.
the use of wind energy is increasing in various sectors, such as maritime transport, fisheries, aquaculture, tourism, the laying of submarine cables and pipelines, and offshore wind energy production.
we believe that the oceans and seas are a source of growth and can contribute to increased jobs, food and energy, but at the same time we must protect ecosystems for future generations through responsible and sustainable management.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental policy.
it is equally essential to initiate marine disaster prevention strategies and measures by including environmental risks and economic activities, scientifically supporting their management and resolution and determining responsibilities within european and international legislation.
‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i voted today in favour of the report on the european parliament's motion for a resolution on exploiting the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create growth and jobs, on the basis of the following considerations: - the theme of the blue economy and its proper exploitation is now an integral part of the world economy and, together with the protection and safeguarding of the natural environment, a priority for the political action of the community and national institutions; - i join the chorus of those who share the need not to neglect traditional sectors and to implement scientific knowledge through research and innovation.
‒ the seas and oceans represent a strong potential for growth: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the coastal regions.
the lack of data on the 'health' of our seas, on the resources of the seabed and on marine ecosystems has, in fact, prevented and limited to date the development process that can result from so-called blue growth, which covers a wide range of economic sectors ranging from traditional activities (fisheries, aquaculture) to emerging ones, such as renewable energies or biotechnologies.
the potential of the blue economy will be exploited mainly through two main lines of action: on the one hand, by filling the shortage of qualified professionals in different fields of study and activity, and on the other hand, by increasing the investment in research and innovation necessary to ensure that its development is environmentally sustainable.
the report we have voted on is in the direction i would like to see, namely the right balance between research, economic growth and the environment.
to this end, education, training and research are essential elements for the development of a sustainable economy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the marine environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources.
‒ a sustainable development of the blue economy can significantly promote economic growth and development and job creation, especially for coastal regions, outermost regions and island countries, while taking into account the specific and different needs of each geographical area.
as the marine environment is fragile, i voted in favour of the report because i believe that both the eu and the member states must invest adequate economic resources in research and innovation aimed at increasing both knowledge of the marine environment and its economic potential, while fully respecting the sustainable exploitation of resources.
many of the major societal challenges facing humanity today can be addressed by better knowledge of the marine environment and a better ability to use, manage and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans and coastal regions.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that education, training, research and development are essential elements in order to promote a sustainable blue economy and to make the best use of the marine resources available.
the resolution authorises mining exploration, oil and natural gas drilling, extraction and exploitation of mineral resources on the high seas, including those areas of special environmental interest (apei), in violation of the precautionary principle.
the sustainable development of the blue economy requires greater investment in innovation and research and underlines the role of new technologies in countering the degradation of marine ecosystems, as well as the links between the blue and green economies.
investments must focus on eco-innovation, resource efficiency, nature conservation, marine and coastal protection and climate change mitigation.
the committee also called for more support for the modernisation and sustainable development of the fisheries and fishery products processing sectors, with a view to creating greater added value.
education and training, research and development are essential elements for the sustainable development of the blue economy.
‒ the blue economy is about shaping and promoting the right strategy to support sustainable growth in the marine and maritime sectors.
‒ i voted against this report, despite several points on which we agree, including the need to ensure that the exploitation of marine resources is balanced with the rates of regeneration (and safeguarding) of ecosystems, ensuring that the precautionary principle and the ecosystem approach are at the heart of the blue economy.
however, in line with this principle, we cannot accept that the exploration and exploitation of offshore mineral and energy resources should be included in the definition of the blue economy.
we must have a moratorium on such activities in order to encourage the development and use of sustainable renewable energy sources.
many of the social and employment challenges can only be met by better understanding of the marine environment and its potential.
in recent years, the seabed has been increasingly used for the exploitation of energy resources, particularly for the extraction of mineral resources.
however, a conscious use of blue resources cannot be done without respect for sustainable development.
‒ the report presents a marked functionalization of education systems to the teaching of a business model in which there is no reference to the awareness that learners must have human rights, the dignity of workers, the maximum environmental protection to be implemented in the creation of a business activity.
these skills will only be developed through the introduction of modules on basic finance, economics and the business environment and the establishment of activities and supporting figures, mentoring and career guidance for students, as well as the development of ict skills, which will enable young people to exploit the full potential of the digital world.
‒ i voted against because the report presents a marked functionalization of education systems to the teaching of a business model in which there is no reference to the awareness that learners must have human rights, the dignity of workers, the maximum environmental protection to be implemented in the creation of a business activity.
‒ the report describes a business model in which there is no reference to the dignity of work and environmental protection.
it is therefore with enthusiasm that i decided to vote in favour because i believe that a systematic european approach to youth entrepreneurship education is indispensable in order to support the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it must be regarded as a non-renewable resource, to be protected and promoted in a consistent manner and whose authenticity must be protected.
on the one hand, these protection and development objectives must be integrated, across the board, into all the union's policies, fostering collaboration and synergies between those responsible for the various fields of intervention (education, tourism, environment, employment, social cohesion, regional development, taxation); this applies in particular to the various aspects of european cultural tourism, which is an important driver of growth, employment and local economic development, especially for smes.
in particular, cultural tourism, which accounts for 40% of european tourism, is a key economic sector in terms of potential for growth and employment, the development of which should be further strengthened through the use of new technologies and the protection of which should be an indispensable prerogative, through the development of sustainable forms of tourism that ensure these benefits in the coming decades.
the designation of a european year of cultural heritage can also be an important opportunity to raise awareness that cultural heritage is a source of wealth, social innovation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it is of key importance to use available resources to support, enhance and promote cultural heritage, based on an integrated approach, which takes into account the cultural, socio-economic, educational, environmental and scientific components.
in summary, european cultural tourism is also an important driver of growth, sustainable local development and employment.
access to safe drinking water and sanitation is essential for life, and the proper management of water resources plays a key role in ensuring sustainable water use.
it is right that parliament, the greatest democratic institution in europe, should listen to the voice of the citizens and give concrete answers on such sensitive and sensitive issues that concern us all and the sustainability of our future.
finally, the final position of parliament, which urged the commission to ensure the legally binding exclusion of water, sanitation and waste water services from the ttip negotiations, was certainly positive.
unfortunately, we sometimes see inadequate public management, which leads to waste and lack of services.
a right that is often violated, as the numbers speak for themselves: at least 748 million people worldwide today lack sustainable access to safe drinking water.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
towards social innovation, to technological innovation, to urban regeneration, to the enormous challenges that cities face, from environmental to demographic?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reports show how essential it is in territorial development to overcome traditional administrative boundaries in the common search for solutions to economic, social, environmental and demographic challenges.
i am in favour of developing a model of contract and highly participatory urban planning in which, through a clear multi-level governance model, all stakeholders, down to the individual citizen, can be involved in solving today's major economic, social and environmental challenges.
so a new humanism for an even more modern idea of sustainable and inclusive development.
for example, with regard to the agreement for guinea-bissau, which we shall be voting on tomorrow, there is talk of a lack of knowledge of the consequences of that agreement for the marine ecosystem and of the problems associated with the absence of up-to-date biological data.
with the new common fisheries policy, sustainability is our primary objective, but we often forget that when we go fishing abroad in exchange for subsidies paid largely by european citizens and not by the fishing industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too join my colleagues in supporting the adoption of the partnership agreements for sustainable fisheries, when they are indeed balanced acts between european countries and third countries and in line with the development cooperation policies pursued to date.
the agreements concluded by the european union with third countries must respect the principles of the sustainability of the common fisheries policy and respect human rights as recognised at european and international level.
however, there are many positive elements to which we have also contributed with our amendments, including the will to invest in solutions which are increasingly sustainable in terms of energy and the environment, favouring rail transport rather than road transport.
however, in my view, the report has all the right attitudes to support it, it touches on the points that interest us, in my case a particular focus on rail transport, its progressive liberalisation, and it works on all those elements that allow us to understand how to invest in transport, without continually resorting to whims that europe does not deserve, such as excessive attention to issues on which we are already very good at - see the capacity to produce investments that respect environmental protection - the capacity of this report to promote that path towards useful investments for the mobility of goods and the mobility of people gives good reason to hope that, also through transport policy, our continent will have the development it deserves.
v. and we must continue to pursue the investment plan that will really support the european economy and society, an economy that must be rethought and made sustainable and circular.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that this partnership agreement with guinea-bissau can bring many benefits to both sides, allowing for a harmonious and sustainable development of the whole region.
the conclusion of the protocol is of vital importance in order to promote the effective and sustainable development of guinea-bissau's fisheries sector and related industries and activities.
it is in the interest of both parties to develop a sustainable policy in this field, and it is essential to rely on third countries to provide them with aid and technology while we can obtain foodstuffs from resources that are not adequately exploited there.
it provides us with food, it improves the biodiversity of our seas, it benefits the people and the fishermen of guinea-bissau.
the new agreement will have to promote the effective and sustainable development of guinea-bissau's fisheries sector and all related economic activities.
i believe that the lack of respect for the eu's demands for sustainable fishing and greater efforts to combat illegal fishing, as well as the lack of compliance with the health and hygiene rules in fisheries, are sufficient reasons for not supporting this text with my vote.
‒ the report fully rejects the eu's demands on sustainable fishing, employment of local people on board eu vessels and the fight against illegal fishing.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is very important, as my party's line underlines, to manage the development and growth of relations and partnerships with third countries to the european union in the best possible way, especially as regards internal food sustainability.
we agree that the commission must take all the necessary steps to support the sector but also to ensure that certain natural balances are maintained which will ensure that fish stocks are always high: the fisheries sector must not affect the important balance of the ecosystem.
the general objective of the protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau in the fisheries sector in the interest of both parties by establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy.
it considers that this agreement is of considerable importance both for guinea-bissau and for the european fleets operating in guinea-bissau's waters and recalls that this agreement should promote a more effective and sustainable development of guinea-bissau's fisheries sector and related industries and activities.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that this partnership agreement with cape verde can bring many benefits to both sides, allowing for a harmonious and sustainable development of the whole region.
‒ while there has been an improvement in the general conditions of fishing and the sustainability of fishing activity compared with 1990, although no detailed analysis has been carried out, the financial impact (eur 3.3 million) and the related benefit for european fleets is small.
the aim is to strengthen cooperation with this country to enable the development of a sustainable and responsible fisheries policy, by promoting an in-depth dialogue on the programming and implementation of sectoral policy and also by establishing a rigorous monitoring system.
‒ the new protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde on fisheries was adopted in line with the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy (cfp), both from an environmental and economic point of view.
in addition to the resolution, i also welcomed one of the objectives of the new protocol, namely cooperation between the european union and cape verde which will promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy.
the general objective is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the cape verdean fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
the main objective of this protocol is to offer eu vessels the possibility to fish in the cape verdean zone, subject to certain scientific advice, and, above all, the main objective is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde in order to develop a sustainable fisheries policy.
‒ i have taken into account the importance of the conclusion of a protocol between the eu and the republic of cape verde on fisheries, the main objective of which is to strengthen cooperation between the two for the development of sustainable and responsible fisheries.
the agreement is in line with the new sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy (cfp).
i have decided to give my consent to this agreement because i believe that the financial support to be given to cape verde can help this country to combat illegal fishing and to ensure the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
the agreement also provided for the strengthening of cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in the interests of both parties.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this partnership agreement with cape verde can bring many benefits to both sides, allowing for a harmonious and sustainable development of the whole region.
‒ while there has been an improvement in the general conditions of fishing and the sustainability of fishing activity compared with 1990, although no detailed analysis has been carried out, the financial impact (eur 3.3 million) and the related benefit for european fleets is small.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because the new protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde on fisheries was adopted in accordance with the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy (cfp), both from an environmental and economic point of view.
this report welcomes the eu-cape verde protocol, adopted in accordance with the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy, both from an environmental and economic point of view.
the aim of the agreement is to promote and develop a sustainable fisheries policy through the implementation of national initiatives to combat illegal fishing and the financing of local projects aimed at training fishermen in the safety and respect of tuna stocks.
i therefore voted in favour of the draft decision, an agreement which safeguards both mutual financial interests and the protection of the environment and natural resources.
the report welcomes this new protocol between the eu and the republic of cape verde on fisheries, adopted in accordance with the measures for the environmental and economic sustainability of the new common fisheries policy.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that this partnership agreement with madagascar can bring many benefits to both sides, allowing for a harmonious and sustainable development of the whole region.
‒ the general objective of the memorandum of understanding is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and madagascar with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in madagascar's fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
i voted in favour of the agreement because i believe in the importance of responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in order to promote economic growth in the sector, ensuring the sustainability and transparency of fishing activities.
the agreement is in addition to the package of other fisheries agreements approved today, in line with the environmental and economic sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy.
the overall objective is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and madagascar with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in madagascar's fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
in this report, the european parliament recognises the benefits that the implementation of the agreement will bring to developing countries by contributing to a more welcoming environment for business, in particular smes; urges all wto members to seek a solution without further delay for the implementation of the bali package in all its aspects, including the reduction of trade distortions represented by agricultural subsidies; fully supports the european union's initiative to allocate eur 400 million of funding over five years to trade facilitation reforms and projects such as the improvement of customs systems in developing and least developed countries, and finally calls for regular information on the financing arrangements to be provided to the european parliament and the eu member states.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that eu policies should support functional cities and urban areas, enabling them to express and realise their full potential as engines of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development essential for the progress of the whole european continent.
‒ after careful reflection and debate in this chamber, i voted in favour of the report on the urban dimension of eu policies today on the following grounds: - it is clear how essential it is to overcome traditional administrative boundaries in the joint search for solutions to economic, social, environmental and demographic challenges.
- i join the chorus of those who share the need for a clear multi-level governance model, so that all stakeholders, down to the individual citizen, can be involved in solving today's major economic, social and environmental challenges.
it has the merit of addressing the four main challenges of the urban dimension (management and governance, smart growth, inclusive growth, green growth), but remains vague in relation to regeneration and revitalization of historic urban centres, and the environmental impact of further urbanisation.
in fact, there are many problems in the built environment, such as pollution, poverty, traffic and so on, which i think the eu needs to tackle through more specific urban policies and cities themselves need to play a more active role in their implementation.
i believe that this project can be a valuable help to cities in improving the environment and the lives of citizens and in implementing a uniform policy in the union to solve common problems in many town centres.
‒ more than 70% of the eu's population lives in cities, so many of the environmental and economic policy challenges facing the eu are linked to the urban dimension.
this has led in recent years to the need to devise an eu urban agenda aimed at facilitating the development of a sustainable eu policy for urban development.
the report, while addressing the four main challenges of urban management such as governance, smart growth, inclusive growth, green growth, remains vague on two key aspects: the regeneration and re-use of historic urban centres (ideally aimed at avoiding the construction of ghettos with the consequent social, economic and cultural exclusion of a large part of the citizens) and the environmental impact of further urbanisation.
this requires a rethinking and updating of urban areas in line with the main criteria that will be at the heart of the strategy 2020: sustainability, inclusion and investment in services, because cities are the first point of contact between europe and its citizens, our calling card and our opportunity to make our commitment tangible and concrete.
the urban agenda therefore needs to be strengthened in order to fully implement the principles of proportionality, subsidiarity and partnership and to create sustainable economic development that is conducive to the social inclusion of the most vulnerable.
the 'functional urban areas' of the union are formed by a single polycentric structure built around large, medium and small-sized cities and their neighbouring areas, thus extending beyond traditional administrative boundaries to encompass diverse territories united by the same economic, social, environmental and demographic challenges.
eu policies should support cities and functional urban areas by enabling them to express and realise their full potential as drivers of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development.
the eu must act for a sustainable urban development policy, considering that more than two thirds of all european policies affect cities in a more or less direct way.
i therefore thought i should vote in favour of ensuring that european citizens have sustainable urban development.
this own-initiative report aims to examine the challenges facing eu policy in relation to urban areas and to define the guidelines and limits of a future sustainable eu policy for urban development.
the european city of tomorrow requires first of all smart growth, the creation of favourable conditions for innovation and research, and the development of an environment favourable to business and young people through cutting-edge and efficient education.
a central point is mobility: it is essential that the use of green and sustainable transport is increased and that cities achieve and maintain high energy efficiency standards.
the report aimed to set the direction for a future eu policy on sustainable urban development by promoting an integrated approach to territorial development, with a view to achieving a functional european urban agenda that would equip cities and functional urban areas with the tools needed to achieve the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
however, the final report, while dealing with the four main challenges of the urban dimension - management and governance, smart growth, inclusive growth, green growth - appears vague in two fundamental respects: the regeneration and re-use of historic urban centres (just think for example of the rejection of town center management which would have allowed to counterbalance the attractive capacity of large suburban shopping centres) and the environmental impact of further urbanisation.
it is impossible and perhaps even useless to oppose all this, but it is our task to ensure that this change is not made at the expense of protecting the fundamental social rights which make the european social model unique in the world and which are the basic condition for a fair and sustainable economy for the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we have precious human capital in europe, in my country, in italy, animated by civil passion in a process of renewed community involvement which today gives meaning to a market idea that puts sustainable growth, especially from a social point of view, before profit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sustainability of health systems is a matter of crucial importance, for although the 28 countries share the same values, there are still deep differences between them, and we have often spoken of a europe of disparities.
there is no european framework for the cost of medicines, each member state has its own procedures, which means that the same medicinal product is evaluated 28 times, resulting in a waste of resources, time and lack of access to life-saving medicines.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that cohesion policy is the european union's main tool for reducing economic, social and territorial disparities between european regions, improving their competitiveness, and fighting climate change and energy dependence, while contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives.
therefore, strong support should be given to the progress of the european integration process and to investments that should be focused on sectors that can produce multiplier effects on employment and growth, such as innovation or education, together with the strengthening of regional financing for smes, which are the regional engine for job creation, and progress towards a digital and eco-sustainable economy.
‒ after careful reflection and debate in the chamber, i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament resolution on 'investment for growth and jobs: promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union' on the following grounds: - regional disparities have increased and the employment growth since 2000 and the competitiveness of many member states have been lost, particularly in the southern member states; - the original role of cohesion policy and its instruments as defined by the treaty make it the main policy instrument for achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth throughout the eu; i therefore agree with the rapporteur on the satisfaction of the new eu investment plan for europe to complement structural and cohesion investment and his report as a whole.
the report also sets out the key objectives for investment in cohesion for the period 2014-2020, including energy efficiency, employment and smes.
the time has come to focus on energy efficiency, employment and support for smes to accelerate the exit from the crisis and create job opportunities, especially for our young people.
investment in cohesion, such as energy efficiency and smes, sectors which promote economic and financial growth, are resources made available by social policy in order to boost job creation.
the report also highlights the promising nature of the 2014-2020 programming investments in areas such as innovation, the digital and green economy, employment and smes, where the potential for sustainable job creation, especially for young people, is evident.
‒ energy efficiency, employment and smes, sectors with promising potential for sustainable job creation, are all key elements of the new cohesion policy 2014-2020. i share the rapporteur's view that the original role of cohesion policy and its instruments, as defined by the treaty, make it the main policy instrument for achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth throughout the eu.
‒ i voted in favour of the report setting out the achievements and key objectives of investment in cohesion for the period 2014-2020: energy efficiency, employment and smes.
‒ cohesion policy aims to develop smart growth, to be pursued through energy efficiency and the creation of new jobs in the sustainable economy.
it is therefore essential to assess a long-term perspective that supports smes, promotes employment, implements resources for youth and education, pays particular attention to the territorial dimension and promotes a homogeneous and sustainable regional development.
‒ this report analyses, in essence, the commission's sixth cohesion report and, in perspective, sets out the key objectives of investment in cohesion for the period 2014-2020: energy efficiency, employment and smes, which are sectors with promising potential for sustainable job creation.
the rapporteur rightly focuses on strengthening the administrative capacity of public authorities, especially at local and regional level, and on the digital and low-carbon economy, education and support for smes.
the deutsch report analyses the commission's sixth cohesion report and sets out the key objectives for investment in cohesion for the period 2014-2020: energy efficiency, employment and smes, which are sectors with promising potential for sustainable job creation.
there are many positive elements, such as governance aspects; the need to strengthen the administrative capacity of public authorities; new measures to increase efficiency and focus on results, in particular on innovation, the digital and low-carbon economy, education, employment and support for smes.
i agree with the rapporteur that the sustainability of the results achieved is of the utmost importance, as are the two results of active ageing and solidarity between generations and the active ageing index.
the kukan implementation report assesses the results of the various active ageing initiatives and monitors progress towards these objectives, also because it is crucial that, given the ageing of the european population, tools are developed to support older people by promoting an inclusive and sustainable society.
the eu's only chance of meeting its targets is to have credible greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for 2020, accompanied by investment in clean technologies and innovation.
); development of alternative fuels and public transport; protection of working conditions, social and welfare rights (anti-dumping rules); completion of the ten-t. among the negative aspects: more decarbonisation (threats to the fight against climate change); stronger role of the commission and the eu to 'harmonise' member states; timidity about anti-dumping rules: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted today in favour of the report on implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: budget and the way forward for sustainable mobility on the following grounds: i agree with the rapporteur and in particular with the need to highlight aspects of a sound and competitive transport system in a global context; of dealing with increasing competition in international aviation; of moving towards a low-carbon transport system; of shifting the balance between modes of transport; the development of a single european transport area; putting people at the centre of transport policy.
‒ the contribution of our delegation was important and significant, as is shown by the fact that the report highlights, in several points, the need to give impetus to the development of less polluting and more energy-efficient and sustainable means of transport.
the proposed initiatives aim at the same time to significantly reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and to reduce carbon emissions in the transport sector by 60% by 2050. this strategy is very ambitious and has as its main objectives: the need for a robust and competitive transport system in a global context; increasing competition in international aviation; the development of a low-carbon transport system and a single european transport area.
the white paper provides for improving mobility, promoting employment, reducing oil imports and reducing polluting emissions.
there is still much to be done in the field of energy efficiency to make transport sustainable and at the same time to make europe independent of oil and fossil fuels.
‒ the european commission, in adopting the white paper 'roadmap to a single european transport area towards a competitive and sustainable transport policy' in 2011, identified the initiatives and measures to be taken in the context of transport policy in the decade 2011-2020. with 40 specific actions to be implemented by 2020, the commission aims to create a transport system with fewer barriers to market entry, better integration between different modes of transport, coherent infrastructure design and widespread use of new technologies.
the completion of the trans-european transport network is an essential requirement for a sustainable and efficient european transport system, which needs to be strengthened through the connecting europe facility (cef) and the european fund for strategic investments (efsi).
‒ by adopting the report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport, we are calling for a european transport policy that prioritises sustainable and energy-efficient modes of transport, such as rail.
the ban on excessively noisy freight wagons that we are calling for by 2020 will further promote the rehabilitation of old rolling stock and braking systems in freight wagons, and thus make a significant contribution to reducing noise emissions.
‒ the resolution proposes good targets, such as reducing europe's dependence on oil imports, reducing transport emissions by 60% by 2050, using less polluting and more energy-efficient modes of transport, and opting for more sustainable solutions.
the resolution considers that eu funding should reflect the investment needs for the completion of the ten-t core network, and that the cef and other funding should stimulate investment in transport infrastructure with priority given to sustainable transport modes such as rail.
i am opposed to investing in the major works planned for the ten-t networks, and financed through the cef, because one of these works is the turin-lyon tav, a project whose costs are excessive compared to their usefulness, with a huge environmental impact and damage to human health, not necessary to improve the quality of transport between france and italy and whose documents are inaccessible and managed in an opaque way.
i think it is important to stress a passage in the text that has just been voted, which calls on the european commission to update its strategy in the light of the emission reduction targets and the new energy and climate policy proposals, in particular with regard to the achievement of the binding target of reducing national greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels.
i therefore welcome parliament's call for a transport policy in line with the 2030 environmental objectives: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
it reiterates its support for the objectives set out in the white paper to achieve the 60% greenhouse gas emission reduction target and stresses that a european sustainable mobility policy must be based on a wide range of policy instruments aimed at the transition to less polluting and more energy efficient modes of transport.
‒ i welcome the proposal to implement the 2011 white paper on transport: a budget and the way forward for sustainable mobility.
the ultimate aim of the report is to highlight the need for priority eco-friendly methods for environmental and climate impact, improving public transport and making it more eco-friendly.
‒ given that the sustainability of transport is one of the major challenges facing the urban fabric, i believe that a careful approach at european level is needed, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the treaties.
i therefore voted in favour of the commission's white paper on promoting sustainable mobility over a period of time reaching at least 2050.
in writing.
the proposed initiatives aim at the same time to significantly reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and to reduce carbon emissions in the transport sector by 60% by 2050. all these initiatives are being implemented and consolidated.
the proposal also aims to reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and to reduce carbon emissions in the transport sector by 60% by 2050. the key points of this project are the importance of achieving a competitive and efficient transport system, and of facilitating development and competition in the field of international aviation.
i welcome today's vote on the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper with a view to achieving sustainable mobility.
in this respect, priority must be given to the creation of an energy- and cost-efficient transport system, for which the completion of the trans-european transport network is essential.
this requires measures to ensure that all girls are educated, including in an environment that promotes gender equality and respect.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ the report on the empowerment of girls through education in the european union is certainly an important step towards empowerment to combat gender inequalities, towards the integration of equality into the social environment at all levels and in all aspects of the education system.
the resolution welcomes the solidarity shown by many european citizens, welcomes the commission's initiatives on relocation and resettlement and calls on it to amend the current dublin regulation, urges the eu, the member states and the international community to strengthen their role in conflict resolution and, in particular, to contribute to the search for sustainable political solutions in conflict-affected regions such as iraq, syria, libya and the middle east, and calls on the commission and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy (vp/hr) to convene an international conference on the refugee crisis with a view to developing a common and comprehensive humanitarian aid strategy.
we also call for further efforts to amend the dublin regulation and, in addition to the measures for managing reception in this 'emergency' phase, for a longer-term strategy to be prepared, including a strengthening of the european union's role in conflict resolution and, in particular, to contribute to the search for sustainable political solutions in conflict-affected regions such as iraq, syria, libya and the middle east.
the crisis has prompted a reassessment of the socioeconomic model so that future growth is not only sustainable but also based on the principles of economic, social and territorial cohesion that inspire the union.
in the important challenges facing the eu such as economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and above all job creation, with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups (young people, women, the elderly, the disabled), it is also necessary to take into account the ongoing processes of population ageing and desertification of rural areas.
we must also support them, since they are strongly linked to local and regional realities and provide a solution to the most diverse local needs of citizens (health, social welfare, environment).
there are still many important challenges facing europe, both in the short term, such as economic and financial sustainability, social welfare and above all job creation, and in the longer term, such as population ageing or the desertification of rural areas, which are already beginning to show their negative effects.
‒ the eu must address important short-term challenges such as economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and, above all, job creation, with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups.
the economic and financial crisis that has hit europe hard in recent years has put the continent in front of important challenges such as economic and financial sustainability, social welfare and job creation, in particular for the most vulnerable groups.
the future requires work on a number of fronts: the commission will continue to support the development of the social economy in the union and in the member states and improve the regulatory environment.
in a time of crisis and reduced spending capacity by the public, this new sector could provide a sustainable response to the demand for more effective welfare in the face of ever-decreasing economic availability of public funds.
the social economy plays a central and important role in economic and financial sustainability and is also useful for promoting employment and social welfare.
good information is needed and the development of the social economy in the member states must be promoted by improving the regulatory environment.
unemployment, particularly long-term unemployment, is having a negative impact on economic growth and the sustainability of social security systems.
although there is still a long way to go, particularly in the area of transparency and public access to parliament, council and commission documents, freedom of movement, protection of personal data and environmental protection, the results so far seem very satisfactory and that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the text.
the report welcomes the reports and notes that in 2012 infringement procedures affected transport, health and consumer protection and the internal market, while in 2013 the most problematic sectors were environment, health protection, internal market and services.
the text presented shows that, on the basis of these reports, the four areas in which member states were subject to infringement procedures concerning transposition during 2012 were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and internal market and services issues.
in 2013, the most problematic sectors were the environment, health and consumer protection, the internal market and services, and transport.
the 2012 report underlines that the four areas in which member states were subject to infringement procedures were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and issues related to the internal market in services.
in 2013, the most problematic sectors were the environment, health and consumer protection, the internal market, services and transport.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we also welcome the commitment of the united nations to replace the millennium development goals with a new ambitious programme which will commit the international community to continue its fight against poverty and to renew its commitment to sustainable development by 2030. we are pleased that a broadly participatory working method was chosen for the new agenda and its 17 points: institutions, society and the scientific world.
it is clear that one of the objectives of sustainable development is to combat climate change and all aspects related to it: the protection of the environment, ecosystems and biodiversity, and the sustainable use of marine resources.
we can no longer talk about development without talking about climate change.
an integrated approach between social, economic and environmental issues is needed to ensure the sustainability of development itself.
there is a very strong link between climate change and human rights issues, as the former have a heavy impact on the latter, poverty, quality of life, fundamental rights, climate migration, the real risks that my colleague mr duncan spoke about earlier.
this is why these issues will be discussed at cop21 21 where the principles of sustainable development will have to be integrated into the national policies and programmes of the countries and we hope that the will of the states to reach a binding agreement will be demonstrated.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in less than two weeks the new sustainable development agenda will be adopted in new york.
now we need to think about how to turn these goals into reality, just as the plight of migrants forces us to think about the root causes, including climate change and a level of global inequality that is completely unsustainable.
this is finally a universal agenda, one that concerns us all and that requires us to rethink the way we live, produce, consume, because in terms of sustainable development all countries can be considered developing.
deep changes in european and national policies will be needed to align with the new goals on sustainability, inequalities, education and gender equality.
the next un summit will have the important objective of adopting the new agenda for sustainable development 2015-2030, the first global compact for human development and the protection of the planet.
the scope and ambition of the new agenda, which aims to align all eu and member states' policies with the sustainable development goals (sdgs), requires the introduction of participatory governance mechanisms that ensure a strong role for civil society in the implementation, monitoring and review of the sdgs.
to successfully achieve the sustainable development goals, the eu institutions will need to step up efforts to create greater social cohesion at a time of slow growth and high unemployment, which lead to less solidarity among citizens.
only a development model that produces positive effects not only in terms of profit but also in social, cultural and environmental terms can achieve the objectives of sustainable development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we agree with many of the proposals in the energy package: the updating of labelling, the promotion of renewable self-production, self-consumption, with a reduction in network charges; more guarantees for those who invest in renewables and so on.
we hope that this will be the prerequisite for a real new deal for citizens and for energy democratisation, but we cannot help denouncing another new deal which was launched today in the energy committee, where the groups are due to give their reports and opinions on the energy summer package next week.
as regards energy, i shall speak in italian tonight since there was one who spoke in swedish before.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the package of measures adopted last july undoubtedly strengthens the european union's energy strategy and its credibility with its international partners in the run-up to the paris climate conference.
i believe that the strengths of this package lie above all in the fact that the revision of the ets allows two fundamental objectives to be kept together in the way it is formulated: the first, very ambitious, concerns environmental targets and criteria for industrial sustainability, namely a reduction of at least 40% of emissions by 2030; the second is that all this is happening in the context of a battle to safeguard the international competitiveness of the industrial sectors most exposed (as many have said) to the risk of relocating production outside the european union.
what i want to say is that, in conclusion, together with the commission's commitment to a simplified energy labelling system and the principle of consumer centricity, which is another very important thing, i believe that there is a risk that everything that has been put in place could be jeopardised if the proposals that make up the energy union were not to follow the ordinary legislative procedure.
we have a huge energy cost which affects not only the life of industry but also the life of our agriculture.
‒ i vote against the resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016. clearly, this is a text which mostly supports the commission's work in areas where i do not support the lines it has taken (monetary policy, ttip, environmental policies, immigration) or in areas where i would like it to interfere less with the competences of the member states (both in economic matters and in the context of a number of measures).
finally, we must not forget the need to set out an ambitious climate and energy framework, making a substantial contribution to the conclusion of a global climate agreement.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy strategy.
2016 will be a decisive year in particular for the issues of the common approach to immigration, energy security and independence, job creation and support for smes.
the work programme we voted on is characterised by strategies to promote growth; employment; investment; the fight against fraud and tax evasion; the creation of a digital single market; the development of the copyright sector; the creation of a competitive internal energy market; the improvement and development of transport and infrastructure; the protection of the environment, agriculture and fisheries; the efficiency of international trade policies and a strengthening of legislation.
we have many cases of state-owned companies in european countries exploiting the raw materials of the territories we are talking about, we are talking about oil, we are talking about water, we are talking about energy in general, and the voices we hear from those countries are voices of the sort but let us exploit our own resources in peace.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, too often we have seen the failure of cooperation policies which, through waste, corruption and inefficiency, have unfortunately failed to achieve the objectives set and to provide real added value for the citizens and the populations to whom they were aimed.
education, health, housing and decent living conditions cannot allow for waste or delay.
let us be honest, if all the vast european resources that have been used in these decades had been used for effective development projects, which were really capable of changing local realities and with the participation of the people and without corruption and waste, we would today have another africa, we would have another middle east and we would have prevented so many conflicts and so much poverty.
strategic planning that integrates national and local levels is essential to promote and integrate the three main dimensions of development: social, economic and environmental.
it is useless, because behind the false myth of progress and innovation, it wants to support a project that has no sustainability in terms of cost/benefit, in environmental terms, in social terms and in terms of mobility.
mr president, does it seem normal that to store waste for only three years, it is necessary to blow up a whole hill?
does it seem normal to you to violate the directive on biodiversity, the directive on soil and water pollution without considering the directive on landfills, which italy has already violated several times?
we also overcome the foreign and trade policies of exploitation, decisive action on climate change.
120 000 quotas are only a palliative, just as it is hypocritical to distinguish between refugees, economic migrants, climate migrants.
‒ i welcome the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in response to the requests for assistance submitted by bulgaria and greece following the natural disasters that occurred in the first months of 2015. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. in addition, natural disasters have had a dramatic impact on local economies, communities and the environment.
as these appropriations will help the two countries to repair damage to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses, agriculture, the environment and cultural heritage, i have decided to support the report.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that extending the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products can foster innovation in traditional production processes and the creation of new start-ups for traditional products and also contribute to the sustainability of jobs created in underdeveloped areas, in particular by offering small and micro enterprises, which are responsible for about 80% of typical products produced locally that could be protected through the geographical indication system, the opportunity to increase sales through more effective marketing operations as well as an incentive to cooperate more, given the collective nature of the system.
firstly, because it supports local products and secondly because it encourages local employment: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
these are not only important from a cultural point of view, but have historically generated wealth and, if properly protected, can once again be, even more than before, an opportunity for sustainable development for our territories.
we have an obligation to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and producers in fighting counterfeiting and counterfeit products, by ensuring a more socially, economically and environmentally sustainable approach to economic development within and outside the eu, as well as fair competition and consumer protection.
the negative gdp growth rates for several years have caused greece severe liquidity problems and the lack of public funds for public investments necessary to foster a sustainable recovery.
‒ greece is still paying a heavy price for the consequences of the financial crisis: the country faces liquidity problems and lacks the public funds needed to foster a sustainable recovery.
there are resources from the 2007-2013 programming period which, if not spent by 2015, will revert to member states' budgets and remain unused; it's a waste!
the lack of liquidity and of public funds for investment effectively prevents a sustainable recovery.
i believe that special assistance is extremely important for workers who have been made redundant and for those who have been affected by the current world economic climate.
184 workers will benefit from the measures provided for by the fund, totalling eur 1 415 000. i would like to express my particular appreciation of the speed with which the proposal was examined and accepted: the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident at work.
‒ i voted in favour of this document because i believe that strategic planning at national and, above all, local level is essential for promoting and integrating the three main dimensions of development: the social, economic and environmental dimensions.
support from the central authority often too labile and perceived as distant or alien by the citizens of rural areas is not enough to succeed: in line with the work of the united nations general assembly's working groups on the sustainable development goals (owgs), attention needs to be focused on the subnational, regional and local levels of government.
in the new global framework for sustainable development, the involvement of local authorities is possible and i therefore voted strongly in favour of the report.
the report reiterates that local authorities have a key role to play in achieving the post-2015 goals as public and institutional actors for local governance, the consolidation of grassroots democracy, sustainable development based on the participation of local people and their democratic expression.
the new global sustainable development framework offers an opportunity to ensure the broad participation of civil society organisations, which is necessary to ensure good, transparent and accountable governance.
‒ as public bodies close to the citizens, local authorities have a duty to ensure transparent and accountable territorial governance, respecting the principle of democracy and facilitating sustainable development.
local authorities play a key role in the new global sustainable development framework based on the post-2015 development agenda adopted by the united nations.
excessive concentration and consequent urbanization which endangers the sustainability of development: about two and a half billion new urban dwellers will need education, health services, jobs, food, transportation, housing.
there is no possibility of sustainable development without the protection and guarantee of human dignity.
the growth and the goal of sustainable development of countries necessarily passes through greater autonomy and responsibility of urban authorities.
it is time to look ahead and focus on the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which can only be achieved if all actors involved play their part financially and by recognising the central role of local authorities as providers of social, health, education and training services.
europe is indeed one of the major players in the implementation of the sustainable development goals, as it sets policy coherence for development itself.
it is of fundamental importance insofar as it allows the integration of the main dimensions of development: social, economic and environmental.
the report stresses that local authorities must play a key role as public and institutional actors essential to good local governance, the consolidation of grassroots democracy, sustainable development based on the participation of local people and their democratic expression.
it is a very sad story, because in recent years we thought that we had made a real and practical contribution to reducing emissions from the car industry, and that we had achieved important goals so that european citizens could live in a cleaner environment.
it is therefore clear that we now know that the limits for nitrogen monoxide emissions have been deliberately exceeded for many years by one of the largest and most powerful car manufacturers.
as chairman of the envi committee i am therefore concerned, as are the colleagues who will speak after me, and i ask the european commission whether there were other pollutants involved, such as particulate matter, carbon monoxide or others, or whether we are talking only about nitrogen monoxide, given the great link between these pollutants.
is it true, as we have read in some press reports, that emissions were more than 40 times higher than the permitted limits?
we thank the commission for being willing to come to the environment committee, to report immediately after the discovery of the scandal, but we would also like to know whether it is true, as stated by many car manufacturers besides volkswagen, that they did not manipulate car emissions tests.
mr president, commissioner bieńkowska, we have therefore discovered in the last few days that the actual nitrogen monoxide emissions of some diesel vehicles measured on the road may indeed be different and divergent from those calculated in the laboratory and for this reason the commission is developing new methods of measuring these emissions, the so-called real drive emission, based on the use of the car in normal driving conditions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are concerned to draw attention to the fact that the consequences of this case for the environment and citizens will unfortunately not stop at the fact itself, but will systematically and permanently spread to the whole european complex of standards and tests, undermining the credibility of any type of certificate.
in addition, breaches have also been reported in the press in recent days for samsung, uk and swedish products, and the commission was warned in 2011 and again in 2014 about samsung tvs that could circumvent european energy consumption tests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite legislative efforts, the air quality of europe's cities continues to deteriorate, claiming hundreds of thousands of avoidable victims, says the european environment agency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too have tabled a parliamentary question on this subject, which i consider to be of fundamental importance because of its implications for consumer protection, respect for the environment, protection of human health and the very serious damage to the image of the european business system and the automobile industry in particular.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this scandal has not only caused damage to citizens and the environment but has also created a major crisis of confidence in our laws, european laws which have seemed to our citizens to be as severe as they are obsolete, and also a crisis of confidence in the industrial system, at the very moment when we are, as the commission and parliament, making a great effort to revive all productive activity.
the volkswagen case clearly shows that it is not so much a problem of standards linked to emission targets, here the standards are there and they are also strict, the problem is the lack of adequate controls and if we think that a european agency could be useful to standardize controls, perhaps independent, but it is also true that tests are needed, we must rethink the tests, as has already been said, for the assessment of pollutant emissions, based on real driving conditions, without allowing excessive flexibility which could lead once again to untrue results.
mr bonafè, someone mentioned earlier that 400 000 people die every year from air pollution.
now, you know that in this pollution, in addition to the nitrogen monoxide from the volkswagen, there's also the dioxin from the incinerators, you know that?
citizens and environmental groups have been denouncing this scandal for several years, but they have never been heard because these institutions only listen to big industry and the powerful lobbies, so please, let's stop this big joke.
i can assure you that i share emotion about the credibility of european industry, about cheating on consumers, about preventing jobs and about the credibility of our environmental ambitions.
the commission did not receive any information before the official information disclosed by the us environmental protection agency (epa) and no information was received by us from the epa nor from any member states.
in the past 20 years we have made great progress in reducing polluting emissions in the eu.
in the last years, for the first time in 2010-2011, the commission has concluded that the test cycles that we developed in the 1990s, in the beginning of the whole process, are not adequate anymore and that they are not able to reflect the emissions produced in real driving conditions.
the jrc only indicated that defeat devices could be one of the reasons for big differences between emissions in the laboratory and those on the roads.
the fraud committed by europe's largest car group on co2 emissions is a permanent sign of the end of two myths that, by the way, are being promoted to us on the model of this europe.
it is therefore good that investigations, including criminal investigations, have been launched as soon as possible to ascertain responsibility and it seems appropriate in any case to review the whole system of emissions tests.
as i said in my priority question, i have the impression that these problems will soon be extended to the whole consumer goods production chain, if only you consider that samsung tvs in europe seem to use more energy than is shown in the tests, raising questions about the energy efficiency tests.
we are confident all the parties involved realise there is no time to waste and that the time has come to think about libya’s future.
these issues may seem minor, but they are essential to create in citizens a real perception of being part of a journey and a community, part of a common project and to improve their material living conditions in an environment where cross-border movement, relations and activities are increasingly common within the european union, as are increasingly frequent court cases that have effects and implications for those who work between countries.
the directive to reduce pollution from medium combustion installations is a key component of the commission’s clean air policy package presented in december 2013. it is an important deliverable for the 7th environmental action programme, which would help to reduce significantly the potential risks to human health, a programme that i am very familiar with, which was adopted during the irish presidency in 2013. air pollution degrades our environment and it remains the number one environmental cause of death in the eu.
on behalf of my colleague, commissioner vella, let me thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr grzyb, and his colleagues from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) for their commitment and hard work on this proposal.
thanks to the work of the parliament negotiating team, it has been possible to maintain the environmental integrity of the proposed directive, whilst addressing justified cases where member states needed flexibility for implementation.
the flexibility provisions that cover district heating and the use of biomass as a fuel, which are two major issues for parliament, will ensure that climate and air quality policies are consistent and their synergies are maximised.
parliament also made clear that certain further issues are important, such as energy efficiency and carbon monoxide emissions.
it will encourage continued innovation and help eu industry gain shares of the rapidly growing global market in pollution control technology.
the proposal, as the rapporteur has pointed out, concerns medium combustion plants, 150 000 plants in europe with a rated thermal output of between 1 and 50 megawatts, and is designed to make a significant contribution to reducing pollution by setting limit values for existing and new plants and also by establishing a registration system which can enable member states to comply with their emission reduction obligations.
the aim, of course, is to preserve air quality and thus the health of citizens from possible factors of increasing air pollution.
among the most important points are the obligation for member states to assess the need to apply stricter emission limit values in areas not complying with union air quality standards and the inclusion of a review clause to verify progress in 2020 in terms of energy efficiency of combustion plants.
these efforts are part of the wider preparations for cop21 in paris, to confirm the european union as the main actor in the fight against climate change, and we hope that an ambitious agreement will be reached, also thanks to the commitment of all parties involved.
an important step forward in tackling air pollution more effectively.
we have made clear choices, i recall a few, we have extended the scope of monitoring to include carbon monoxide, we have reached a reasonable compromise on emission limit values on implementation times, the obligation for member states to assess the need for stricter measures for areas above the limits for air quality, reduction of derogations and then a compromise on a slightly longer implementation times for plants that are part of biomass-fired heating networks.
the amendments made by parliament have even weakened the commission's proposal, but above all they have excluded offshore oil platforms and biomass-fired plants from the legislation, which can thus pollute without limits, and if we are talking about employment, the real competitiveness of companies lies in their capacity for ecological innovation and therefore in the use of new sources of clean and free energy, and instead, with the usual excuse that this is better than nothing, we are paying yet another bribe to the power plant industry and the oil multinationals.
firstly, as already mentioned, a legislative gap is being filled, since medium combustion plants up to 50 megawatts are not regulated at european level, although they account for 80% of the total, are used for a very large number of applications and produce about a third of the emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and polluting particles.
air pollution has a major impact on the health of citizens and on the costs of national health systems.
the final text is a good result, thanks also to the work done by the rapporteur - to whom i am grateful - by our shadow rapporteur, mr massimo paolucci, and by the minister for the environment, mr galletti, during the italian presidency.
a bold proposal which, applied gradually to both new and existing plants, is intended to make a significant contribution to reducing pollution, without, however, imposing an excessive burden on our undertakings.
it is a waste, and it is unjustified and unjustifiable, because if i want to visit strasbourg (which i recommend because i think it is a very nice city) i do not have to be forced to do so, but i do want it to be a pleasure.
a single location would result in lower operating costs, with an annual saving of around eur 180 million, and a reduction in co2 emissions from the transport of people and documents.
in fact, through the implementation of a series of reforms, it has taken the right direction towards the development of an increasingly open, sustainable and inclusive economy.
tunisia also has strong long-term growth potential: the implementation of the planned reforms, combined with existing resources such as human resources and an open economy, allows for the unlocking of this potential, thereby promoting the country's economy in a sustainable manner, despite its economy having deteriorated significantly, both domestically and internationally, especially in terms of trade with europe, which remains its main partner.
the implementation of planned reforms and the exploitation of existing resources are two key elements for tunisia's growth, as they aim to promote the country's economy in a more sustainable and inclusive way.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ air pollution is a serious problem affecting every eu country.
the commission's intention to limit emissions of pollutants into the air was probably seen as a declaration of war by the industry lobbies, as the changes made have emptied the original text of meaning.
the final text is therefore unacceptable for several reasons, in particular: it does put a cap on emissions, but because it is very high, it almost authorizes plants to pollute.
‒ the report sets out the rules for controlling emissions into the air of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust from medium combustion plants, as well as monitoring carbon monoxide emissions.
in the text agreed with the council, the eu committed itself to putting in place regulations capable of significantly reducing harmful emissions into the atmosphere, in particular of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox) and other dust.
the new directive introduces a monitoring system for carbon monoxide (co) that can identify limit values and a recording system to ensure compliance with the obligations.
air pollution is a key issue for protecting the health of european citizens and today's vote shows a concrete eu commitment to tackling it.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that the eu regulates nox, so2 and dust emissions.
it is essential, in the context of the fight against climate change we have undertaken, that the european legislator should take care to limit the emissions of these pollutants, while avoiding double regulation and excessive administrative burdens, in order to combine the protection of the environment with the needs of businesses and citizens.
‒ the quality of our health and the mitigation of climate change depend on tackling air pollution.
there are about 150 000 medium-sized combustion plants (with a thermal capacity of between 1 and 50 mw) in the eu, which are used for heating, electricity generation or industrial purposes: they are a significant source of emissions of sulphur dioxide, dust and nitrogen oxides.
eu regulations on emissions from combustion plants cover plants above 50 mw and small domestic plants (less than 1 mw), but there is no legislation to encourage manufacturers to design medium-sized plants in an environmentally friendly way.
it is necessary to close the regulatory gap and avoid breaches of the obligations of member states to reduce emissions of air pollutants by rationalizing and harmonising the sectoral discipline by establishing a system of registration of installations and setting emission limit values that are the same throughout europe in order to protect the health of citizens and avoid unjustified burdens on manufacturing companies in the plant and heating sector.
‒ after careful discussion and debate in the chamber, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions into the atmosphere of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants, as i believe that this proposal for a directive aims first of all to fill an important gap in current eu legislation, since, as is well known, there are no specific eu-wide regulations regarding emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants.
‒ according to the european commission's impact assessment, air pollution is estimated to cause over 400 000 premature deaths every year and health costs of up to €940 billion.
it also contributes to severe environmental degradation, with 62% of the eu's territory exposed to acidification.
in addition, reducing emissions from medium combustion plants contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gases, improving energy efficiency and promoting renewable energy.
the world health organization and the oecd have jointly estimated that the annual economic cost of the health impacts of air pollution amounts to over €1.4 trillion across europe.
our m5s europe delegation cannot support the european commission's proposal because of the lack of ambition shown in reducing the emission limit values and because of the fact that we have not included highly toxic pollutants such as mercury and dioxins and furans in the emissions calculation proposed by us.
‒ air quality is certainly a central issue in eu climate policy.
every year, more than 400 000 deaths are caused by environmental pollution.
despite the extensive european legislation on air pollutant emissions, there is still a legislative gap on medium combustion plants, i.e.
those with a rated thermal output between 1 and 50 megawatts, which are the most numerous because they are used for a wide range of purposes (electricity generation, heating and cooling of our homes to name just a few examples) and unfortunately also represent the main source of emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and fine dust which are seriously harmful to human health.
after a long period of work by the environment committee, an ambitious agreement was finally reached with the council, including the introduction of stringent emission limit values to be complied with by operators and the obligation for member states to keep a register of information on installations and changes made available to the public.
i am satisfied with the content of the directive because, together with the complex body of legislation, it contributes to making the eu's climate policy even more credible.
‒ i voted in favour of the measure under consideration concerning the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere.
there are around 150 000 medium combustion plants (thermal capacity between 1 and 50 mw) in the eu, used for a wide range of applications (including electricity generation or domestic heating/cooling), producing emissions of pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust.
the commission proposal aims to significantly reduce pollution from nox, so2 and dust by setting limit values and establishing a registration system, to make a significant contribution to the member states' emission reduction obligations.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because air pollutant emissions from combustion plants are generally not regulated at european level.
in addition, the report, with its various amendments, is designed to reduce pollution in an indicative way by setting limit values for new and existing installations, together with a simple registration system, in order to help deliver a significant part of the emission reduction obligations and to avoid possible trade-offs between air quality and biomass increase.
‒ i support the proposal for a directive put forward by the european commission and the council on the limitation of atmospheric pollutants by medium combustion plants.
although european legislation regulates emissions from small and large plants, there is no regulation for medium-sized plants.
the aim of the proposal for a directive is to reduce pollution and dust by setting maximum values for existing and new medium-sized plants.
in addition, it provides for the establishment of a system of registration of installations to be applied within the member states which does not impose an excessive administrative burden on undertakings, for example by avoiding double regulation of emissions and instead creating a simple and coherent regulatory environment.
i voted in favour of the report because this directive would be an important instrument for improving environmental conditions, quality of life, health costs and european development in the context of the climate and energy challenges.
however, there must be a balance between the costs for companies to monitor emissions and the environmental and health benefits.
only by adopting proportionate and workable parameters can the cross-border problem of air pollution be tackled effectively.
‒ air pollution has caused and continues to cause irreversible damage to the environment and human health across europe.
the who estimated the cost of this to be 1.4 trillion, equivalent to one tenth of the eu's gdp in the year 2013. in particular, medium combustion plants (mfus) contribute significantly to poor air quality as sources of emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter.
‒ although emissions of pollutants from combustion in medium-sized plants are increasingly contributing to pollution, these emissions were not comprehensively regulated by european legislation.
the directive will also help to improve air quality, promote energy efficiency and modernise industrial plants, thereby reducing the negative impact on human health and improving the quality of the environment.
‒ setting emission limit values (elvs) would be an effective way to solve europe's air pollution problems by addressing the problem at source, making the environment cleaner, citizens less exposed and avoiding huge socioeconomic costs for europe.
as the five star movement we do not support the proposal because of the lack of ambition shown in reducing the limit values for vle emissions and because of the fact that we have not included highly toxic pollutants such as mercury, dioxins and furans in the calculation of the emissions we have proposed.
‒ according to european commission estimates, air pollution causes over 400 000 premature deaths every year and costs healthcare up to eur 940 billion.
it also contributes to severe environmental degradation and causes economic damage worth eur 3 billion in lost crops and eur 1 billion in damaged buildings.
the commission proposal, which aims to close a major gap in current union legislation by reducing emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants, contributes to the achievement of the union's climate and greenhouse gas reduction objectives.
i voted in favour of this report because air pollution is a serious threat to the environment and i believe it is essential to promote a credible climate policy at eu level based on compliance with air quality standards and emission limit values.
‒ i am voting in favour of this report, which harmonises the rules on emissions.
the vote we have just taken on the report by the envi committee is very important: the amendments proposed to the commission proposal improve the chances of realistically implementing the directive on emissions from medium combustion plants, making it an important instrument for improving air quality in the european union without imposing unjustified burdens on society and the economy.
it was an area where the regulatory vacuum was likely to cause uncertainty and damage to the environment, and i welcome this important acquisition.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants, since they are very widespread and have a wide variety of uses, being found in electric generators, domestic heating systems and industrial heat or steam systems: however, they are a source of emissions of pollutants such as sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides.
i therefore consider parliament's commitment to protecting air quality and the environment and to combating climate change to be of paramount importance and therefore support a legislative proposal which for the first time regulates emissions from these plants.
i also welcome the negotiating approach towards the council, which is to maintain the commission's regulatory proposals without any backtracking or weakening of the legislation: the air and environmental quality is a public good of fundamental importance to our citizens and as such must receive the utmost attention from the institutions.
the regulatory approach, combining environmental protection with the proportionality of the charges imposed, distinguishing between old and new installations and focusing on smes, allows for an important decision which will benefit our society and also our companies.
this proposal for medium combustion plants with a rated thermal input between 1 and 50 mw is designed to make a significant contribution to reducing pollution by setting limit values for existing and new plants and also by establishing a registration system which can enable member states to meet their emission reduction obligations.
among the most important points, i would recall the obligation for member states to assess the need to apply stricter emission limit values in areas not complying with union air quality standards and the inclusion of a review clause to verify progress in 2020 in terms of energy efficiency of combustion plants.
‒ i supported the proposal for a directive to limit atmospheric emissions from medium combustion plants.
unlike small and large plants which are already covered by the respective eu directives, emissions from medium combustion plants are not yet regulated at eu level.
improving air quality and tackling air pollution in the eu is a priority.
‒ i am voting in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants, given the critical levels of air pollution which, on the one hand, exceed the limits set by the european union and the world health organisation and, on the other, constitute a danger to the health and well-being of european citizens and future generations.
), which are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions.
by approving this proposal, we intend to make a significant contribution to the reduction of nox, so2 and dust pollution by setting limit values for existing and new installations and also by establishing a simple registration system, to make a significant contribution to the fulfilment of the member states' emission reduction obligations, while also avoiding possible trade-offs between air quality and the increased use of biomass, which in turn could lead to increased air pollution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'air quality' in the definition of the environmental criteria.
‒ i appreciate the work done by the rapporteur on the amendments to the directive, whose overall aim reflects the will to commit to reducing emissions.
‒ the report aims to reduce emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants.
air pollution is estimated to cause over 400 000 premature deaths each year and to have quantifiable health costs of up to eur 940 billion, as well as a significant negative impact on the environment.
i therefore believe that the establishment of a system of regulation and registration of these plants at european level is an important tool for improving the quality of air emissions in the european union, for achieving the union's climate and energy objectives and for reducing greenhouse gases.
‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on the limitation of emissions into the atmosphere of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants (thermal power from 1 to 50 mw).
in the european union there are about 150 000 such plants, which are used in a number of fields: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, such as the creation of a new energy market, the production of electricity, domestic heating and the generation of heat for industrial processes.
it was considered essential to control and limit their emissions in the light of the european policy of reducing pollution, taking care not to increase administrative complexity and not to inhibit future investment.
they are an important source of emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter.
‒ i voted today in favour of the new directive limiting emissions into the atmosphere of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants.
noting that in many regions air pollution levels still remain above the limits set by the union and air quality standards do not even meet the objectives identified by the world health organisation, the directive introduces limits on emissions of pollutants created by the combustion of fuel in medium combustion plants not yet regulated at union level as they are increasingly contributing to air pollution, in particular due to a wider use of biomass, induced by climate and energy policy.
this measure is therefore useful in reducing air pollution and consequently the serious risks to health and the environment arising from poor air quality.
‒ i voted against this report, which further weakens the european commission's already weak proposal to impose limit values on emissions from medium combustion plants.
regulating and containing emissions from medium installations is of fundamental importance to protect the environment and human health and to reduce the social and economic costs of air pollution: we have therefore asked for two things in the committees.
i particularly agree with the importance of clarifying how contracting authorities can contribute to the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development, while ensuring that they are able to obtain the best value for money for their contracts, in particular by requiring specific labels and/or using appropriate award methods.
in particular, it was requested to revise articles 101 to 120 on the possibility of negotiating interinstitutional contracts, criteria for compliance with environmental, social and legislative standards, exclusion criteria for fraud, corruption, participation in criminal activities, the creation of a verification panel, the creation of a database for an exclusion and detection system linked to olaf.
i voted in favour of the resolution because it makes important changes to the rules governing the establishment and implementation of the general budget of the european union, for example by introducing clearer technical definitions and more precise measures on procurement procedures and financial penalties, and by ensuring that economic operators comply with the applicable obligations in environmental, social and labour law in accordance with european union law when executing contracts.
particular attention is also paid to environmental protection and sustainable development by setting minimum standards to be met in accordance with international environmental law and national environmental protection standards.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union because the new text, revised in accordance with the procurement directive adopted in 2014, introduces significant improvements for the protection of the eu's financial interests, such as the possibility to negotiate contracts at interinstitutional level and the introduction of new criteria for compliance with environmental and social legislation.
articles 101 to 120 were revised with the key points relating to the possibility of negotiating contracts at interinstitutional level, with criteria for compliance with environmental, social and legislative standards and exclusion for fraud, corruption and participation in criminal activities.
this parliament and this european commission, led by president schulz and president juncker, have shown that they are up to the challenge and if we are gathered here today it is also because the elections of 2014 and the direct appointment of the president of the european commission have given this parliament new energy and strong new leadership.
and finally, compared to 25 years ago, we are facing the challenge of climate change, françois hollande spoke about it with passion, with firmness, thank you for this strong and binding appeal to all for a great success in paris!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner cañete, red mud is waste generated by industrial aluminium production and the red mud incident that occurred five years ago in hungary is the basis of the oral question in this debate, as it was an environmental disaster of european dimensions.
the accident highlighted the waste disposal problems of the mining industry, the shortcomings in inspections and also showed that these problems can lead to sometimes tragic consequences.
as regards prevention, member states are called upon to review their permits for such industrial sites, in view of the correct classification of waste.
the directive on waste management and extractive industries must therefore be fully implemented and we ask the commission to monitor its full implementation.
member states also need to strengthen their environmental inspections and monitoring regimes, we already asked the european commission in 2008 to come forward with a legislative proposal on environmental controls and so we can only repeat the same request on this occasion and in a stronger way, also in view of what happened after 2008. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the prevention of the dumping of waste.
as for disaster mitigation and remediation, we are still waiting for the european commission's report on the implementation of the environmental liability directive to be published in april 2014. we also believe that financial instruments are of crucial importance and therefore call for all possible aspects to be explored, both in terms of the ceilings of the financial guarantee instruments already established, and in terms of the mandatory financial guarantee instruments, as well as the broader concept of a european sharing of the risks of environmental disasters.
in conclusion, commissioner, only if we all intensify our efforts will we be able to say that we have finally learned the lesson of the red mud disaster five years after the accident, and that we have put in place concrete measures to prevent similar disasters and to eliminate the pollution caused by mining.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would say that the terrible environmental disaster of the red muds in hungary is just another example for us of the gaps in european legislation and the serious shortcomings in the inspections by the institutions.
so let us at least learn from this experience to prevent it from happening again and involve citizens in decisions concerning the management of hazardous waste, citizens who know much more than you think, for example, i am sure they understand much better than our commissioner here who talks to us about the circular economy, but who at the same time also tells us that to increase and implement the circular economy we must increase extractions.
the commission is monitoring the implementation of the directive on the management of extractive waste – mainly on the basis of reported information submitted by member states referring almost exclusively to legal adaptation processes, but the commission services are exploring additional ways to obtain a more integrated and broader picture of the implementation of the directive on the ground.
legal proceedings on extractive waste have been opened for hungary, for instance, as well as for denmark, italy, poland, portugal, romania and spain, inter alia.
as regards inspection issues, while acknowledging that enforcement and inspections remain key issues in the hands of the member states, the commission is currently considering the follow-up to be given in this respect and in the wider context of compliance assurance, as set out by the seventh environmental action programme.
specifically in answer to ms kyllönen on the question of legislation on hazardous waste, the european waste list has recently been modified to ensure, inter alia, that red mud is assessed for hazardous properties.
when classified by the member states as hazardous waste it would be subject to strict control requirements, provided for in the waste framework directive, for its management, labelling and transport.
the agenda includes the discussion of the council and commission statements on 'doubling the capacity of the nord stream pipeline and implications for the energy union and security of supply' [2015/2880(rsp]'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issues of energy security and the need for closer cooperation in this area, both internally and with our partners, have been high on the union's political agenda.
energy is a geostrategic sector and security of supply is a major issue for the european union.
i would like to mention, amongst others, the implementation of the third package on the internal market, the directives on renewable energy and energy efficiency, which strengthen our independence, the commission communication to the european parliament and the council on the european strategy for energy security, cooperation with neighbouring countries within the energy community.
at the end of 2014, the energy union was launched.
the presidency considers that this was a major step forward, a qualitative leap in the development of european energy policy and in the strengthening of security of supply.
this union has five equally important dimensions: security of supply, a fully integrated internal energy market, energy efficiency, emission reduction and, finally, research and innovation.
on this last point, i would like to recall that the presidency recently organized the energy technology week in luxembourg, which brought together more than 500 experts in the sector, energy ministers and business leaders, including entrepreneurs in the field of renewable energies.
the energy union also puts forward the strengthening of regional cooperation in the field of energy, which will allow for greater integration of markets while saving and creating energy in terms of investment.
in addition, in the context of the implementation of the energy union and, more specifically, of the strengthening of the security of gas supply, the council expects the european commission to present, as i understand it, in 2016 a set of proposals on the supply of natural gas.
the presidency is fully aware that this project involves energy, economic, geopolitical and environmental challenges.
it raises questions, in particular as regards the project's contribution to the diversification of routes and energy sources in the union and its impact on other countries.
it also continues to advance the implementation of the energy union and, in particular, the strengthening of the security of supply and energy independence of the european union, including the development and promotion of renewable energy.
energy and climate today, we hear a lot of messages about climate are, in this respect, closely linked.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members allow me to start by reinforcing a key message: ensuring secure and resilient energy supplies to european citizens and companies is a top priority for the commission.
that is also why we have committed to diversifying our energy sources, suppliers and routes.
the goal is simple: putting an end to overdependence on a single supplier or route and giving member states potential sources of gas, be it pipeline gas from different sources or energy storage.
in this regard, we will tap into a rapidly growing energy market which will allow us to more than double our imports from around 40 million m3 to up to 90 million m3 by 2020. we will invest in doubling our storage and accelerate the work on better interconnections between member states.
the restructured baltic energy market interconnection plan (bemip) will be our key instrument for integrating the baltic countries fully into europe.
but let me be clear, as with any other pipeline in the european union, this pipeline will have to comply fully with european union law, in particular the third energy package but also environmental, competition and public procurement rules.
let finish by underlining the fact that the european union remains open for russian gas, and we would like to see russia as a reliable supplier of natural gas in the future, but we would also like to see that the transport of russian gas feeds into our diversification strategy and that the russian supplier, like any other supplier in the european union, plays to our competition and energy market rules.
reducing routes means calling into question the already weak balance between member states in terms of energy supplies.
this is a major problem, especially for those who are currently engaged in the construction of the most ambitious project of european governance in energy policy, of which security of supply is a fundamental component.
it is also a serious problem for the union as a whole, regardless of the exclusive dimension of energy policy, because cutting off ukraine from gas routes means weakening the consolidation process of this country and exposing eastern europe to heavy russian influence.
the russian supplier announced that supplies to the ukrainian gts will end in 2020, thus foreshadowing for kiev the loss of many billions of euros paid to it annually in the form of transit fees; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the economic and social crisis.
the union is far behind in the energy transition, and unfortunately still needs russian gas.
we believe that not only an energy transition towards decarbonisation is necessary to combine the highest geopolitical security and european sovereignty with the highest environmental climate security, but also a different foreign policy to assert our way as a power committed to peace, to good neighbourliness with all the nations around us, without being directed by anyone and we strongly demand that no member state is primus inter pares for a true community of all europeans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the treaties and strategies drawn up and signed by the european union and the 2030 sustainable development goals recently published by the united nations, i believe that parliament should commit itself and use the resources at its disposal to better implement the second objective, both at union and national level.
sustainable is a development that monitors and increases access to education, services and health for girls, sustainable is a development that creates the conditions for women to choose a job that is rewarding for them and equally paid compared to their male colleagues.
among the sustainable development goals, we also find the right to development, which is partly translated into global goals between governments of so-called developed countries and developing countries.
it is right to ensure equal opportunities and equal rights for men and women, but this must not justify radical deviations which must be opposed with energy and determination.
but we also have to understand that if we don't adopt more far-sighted and sustainable policies and if we don't intervene at the root of the terrorism problem, which is conditions of poverty and ineffective governance and corruption, we will never solve the problem either in nigeria or elsewhere.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
‒ i share the concerns raised in the resolution recalling the environmental disaster caused by the industrial accident in ajka, hungary in 2010. i believe that member states should do more to close the regulatory gaps in the application of eu law and international environmental conventions in order to protect our citizens, our territories and prevent future similar disasters.
the resolution refers to this serious environmental disaster in hungary five years ago.
‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 'red mud disaster', an environmental incident which occurred in the town of ajka in hungary five years ago, caused by the rupture of a collection basin, with the release of approximately one million cubic metres of high-alkaline red mud, which flooded several villages, killing ten people, injuring nearly 150, polluting vast areas of land and wreaking havoc on the local flora and fauna.
it is therefore necessary to strengthen national environmental inspection bodies, in particular by ensuring their independence and by providing them with adequate resources to enable transparent and cyclical inspections of industrial sites.
i therefore decided to vote in favour of the text in order to give greater weight to the prevention of environmental disasters and to reach a legislative proposal on environmental inspections as soon as possible.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it asks the commission to provide a number of guarantees which i consider essential, such as: increased focus on research and development for the prevention and treatment of hazardous waste; strengthen national environmental inspection bodies to better carry out industrial site inspections; present a legislative proposal on environmental inspections and implement a financial guarantee system mandatory for all industrial sites and further develop the idea of an eu-wide mechanism for industrial disaster risk sharing, financed by a harmonised insurance premium at scale.
the commission and the member states are also called upon to ensure the transparency of the financial aspects of the reparation of damage caused by environmental disasters, including financial compensation for victims.
on 4 october 2012, the collapse of a sewage tank resulted in the release of red sludge with a high alkaline content, considered hazardous waste, resulting in the death of 10 people and the injury of almost 150 as well as massive damage to four natura 2000 sites.
however, the environmental liability directive has not been properly transposed and implemented at community level.
the report calls on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts to ensure the proper application of eu legislation and reiterates its call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal on environmental inspections.
given the risk that red sludge may have been misclassified as non-hazardous waste in other member states in the past and therefore released, i call on the member states to ensure that the necessary inspections are carried out, which are essential to protect european citizens.
finally, in accordance with the proposal, i believe that greater emphasis should be placed on disaster prevention by drawing up guidelines for the stress testing of mines with large waste water settling basins.
‒ an analysis of the situation in hungary, five years after the ecological disaster, has shown that the european union has not been effectively engaged in strengthening european legislation and implementing environmental and health protection rules.
the environmental liability directive (2004/35/ec) has been poorly implemented in the member states and many obstacles remain to be overcome, such as the lack of inspections in basins containing high alkaline substances, the control of mining activities and the use of measures for the disposal of industrial waste.
i hope that this motion for a resolution on the protection of the environment from risks will help to raise awareness among european businesses and citizens of their responsibility towards the environment, thus strengthening the community principle of 'the polluter pays'.
‒ in 2010, the red mud disaster in hungary threatened the lives of many people, caused casualties and injuries and endangered the health of the environment and in particular wildlife and drinking water sources.
the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to continue and improve research on the prevention and treatment of hazardous waste in order to avoid future environmental disasters.
it aims to implement a bill that can guarantee environmental inspections and that implements a system of mandatory financial guarantee and economic transparency on environmental and human compensation.
i am in favour of this because of the principles of the european union's environmental policy.
i voted in favour of the resolution because it calls on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts to ensure full implementation of eu legislation and all international conventions on the environmentally sound management of red mud and hazardous waste in general.
on 4 october 2010, a collection basin in hungary ruptured, releasing approximately 1 million cubic metres of red mud with a high alkaline content, which spilled over several villages, killing 10 people and injuring around 150. large areas of land were polluted and the accident highlighted the waste disposal problems of the mining industry.
member states need to strengthen their environmental inspections and monitoring regimes, along with further development in the prevention and treatment of hazardous waste.
we have already asked in 2008 for a legislative proposal on environmental controls and therefore we can only repeat the same request, with greater force.
the directive on the management of waste from extractive industries must be implemented in a timely manner and we have therefore asked the european commission to verify its full implementation.
in view of this catastrophe, it is of the utmost importance that all member states should endeavour to classify such waste as red mud as hazardous if it is present on their territory.
a real and strong commitment to prevention is needed, with strict environmental inspection standards.
cooperation and solidarity at eu level in the event of environmental and industrial disasters is essential, in line with the principle of preventive action and the polluter pays principle in environmental matters.
the commission should undertake to use the 2017 mid-term review of the development cooperation instrument (dci) and the 11th edf performance review to assess the impact of programmes funded by the dci and the edf on women and girls and to make the necessary reallocations, so as to address the shortcomings identified in the implementation of the gap and the post-2015 sustainable development goals.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation, because i believe that gender equality and women's empowerment are essential conditions for achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals in the developing countries and indispensable prerequisites for achieving full and gender equality.
gender equality and the empowerment of women are essential prerequisites for achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals and the human rights goals.
‒ while i consider gender equality and women's empowerment to be fundamental human rights and essential conditions for achieving sustainable development, i would vote against.
i voted in favour because the existing regulatory instruments need to be adjusted to ensure a fairer environment in europe.
the commission has therefore proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been involved in the drafting of this report and i believe it is a good report because it shows the will of parliament to move forward in the fight against climate change.
the european union claims to be a leader in the fight against climate change, but the policies of its member states often contradict its commitments and declarations.
we fear the consequences of global warming -- it's a daily story now -- but at the same time we fund its root cause.
the international monetary fund also tells us that if we cut these five trillion dollars of subsidies globally, we would achieve an immediate 20% reduction in global emissions and free up resources in a virtuous flywheel that would lead to a 3.5% growth in world gdp.
after the failure of kyoto and the inconclusive global climate policy of recent years, it is necessary that the paris conference leads to a binding agreement on emissions reductions.
without a commitment to an energy revolution, it will not be enough.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, when we decided to draw up this own-initiative report in the committee on the environment, we thought that this debate was necessary to give a mandate to the european parliament's delegation to the paris conference.
we know very well, commissioner, how europe has led the way in the fight against climate change, and we must continue to look to paris for ambitious solutions.
we must force the hand of those countries which have not believed until now, and the targets communicated by 140 countries for reducing emissions are certainly a first achievement.
that is why we must insist on progressively reducing the incentives for the extraction of fossil coal and shifting these resources to renewable sources, energy saving and energy efficiency.
that's why i keep thinking that sustainable development doesn't rhyme with new drilling.
tackling and facing up to global warming is not a matter that we will solve at the paris meeting, but in paris we have to create the instruments for long-lasting action towards fighting global warming throughout the century.
the commission considers that the international navigation and shipping sectors should also contribute to the global efforts for emissions reductions, because if we want a comprehensive and consistent agreement for below two degrees it must cover all sectors of the economy, including international transport.
this should entail a mandate to the international civil aviation organisation (icao) and the international maritime organisation (imo) to deliver a concrete message on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from international aviation and shipping.
those emissions should also be subject to regular review so that the measures can be enhanced over time, in line with decarbonisation scenarios.
there was also a question to the commission concerning our position on earmarking eu emissions trading system (ets) allowances for international climate finance.
ets auction revenues are one of the many public revenue sources that member states may use to mobilise climate finance, and the commission proposal for the ets revision actively encourages member states to use ets auction revenues to finance climate action.
climate change is a threat that could have irreversible effects on the biosphere and human society.
that is why the paris climate conference must lead to an agreement of the most ambitious, universal and legally binding nature.
only an agreement with these characteristics will provide long-term solutions to the climate challenge and help achieve the goal of a temperature increase of less than 2°c.
recent years have shown that climate change has direct and often dramatic consequences on people's lives.
as president juncker noted in his first state of the union address, climate change could even contribute to a worsening of the refugee crisis in the mediterranean.
the next summit in paris must therefore put the problems of environmental migration firmly on the international political agenda and create a fertile ground for the recognition of the phenomenon of migration due to environmental changes and therefore for the recognition of the status of environmental refugee.
the climate conference in paris at the end of the year is of enormous importance, as it is the venue for the signing of the new international climate agreement.
i very much welcome the report on this subject, as it sets clear and shared objectives on energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy and the reduction of emissions, but above all it stresses the importance of concluding an ambitious and binding agreement.
the environment and climate change have always been a key issue in our struggles and i was therefore pleased to vote in favour of the rapporteur's report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
in an institution that costs citizens less than 1% of their gdp, it is a good sign of a careful administration, but one that cannot let us sleep on our laurels: the eu must make good use of the resources it administers, continue to contain costs by reducing waste and finally ensure that there is no temptation to increase the levies from the pockets of the citizens.
the candidate for deputy director-general is not at all sustainable in substance, as she was unfortunately chosen perhaps precisely to respect a gender balance rather than for her own abilities, as also demonstrated by the hearing held on 13 october, in which she showed numerous gaps and competency gaps.
the efsi, set up within the european investment bank (eib), mobilises additional investment in the real economy in areas such as infrastructure, education, research, innovation, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
‒ i believe that the pargneaux report on the prospects for the new international climate agreement in paris is overly optimistic and fails to take account of the reality of the facts and the results achieved so far.
the fight against climate change is the challenge of our century.
the pargneaux report has set high and ambitious targets for the eu, consistent with the intention of keeping climate change below 2°c.
these include cutting greenhouse gases by 2050 (85-90% reduction), reducing them by at least 40% by 2030 and increasing the share of renewable energy to at least 30% by the same year.
such an energy and climate policy also offers important opportunities in terms of economic growth, employment and improving the purchasing power of the 500 million european citizens we represent.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i firmly believe that the climate crisis must be tackled decisively before the changes it has caused become irreversible.
‒ the paris international climate conference (cop21) is one of the most important moments in the process of laying the groundwork for a legally binding agreement to combat climate change.
our main objective, as emphasized in the report by our socialist colleague, mr gilles pargneaux, is to combat global warming.
it is therefore necessary to increase energy efficiency and energy saving, to increase renewable energy sources and to eliminate greenhouse gases altogether.
we must continue on the path towards a gradual but complete phasing out of fossil fuels and introduce a financing package to support the fight against global warming.
the eu has always been at the forefront of tackling climate change and can continue to be so, to protect the environment in which we live and in which our children will live.
one-sided approach, emphasis on new financing instruments on a global scale, from apprentice sorcerers of globalized finance, emphasis on the recognition of climate refugee status.
the eu's climate policy is catastrophic.
‒ today i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the new international climate agreement to be adopted in paris.
effective measures are needed to counter the alarming signs of climate change such as rising temperatures, melting glaciers and flooding.
the eu and its member states have jointly committed to a binding target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels.
the union should pursue an effective policy towards an energy transition by 2050, through climate and energy policy instruments and with the involvement of other sectors such as transport, research, innovation or development cooperation.
‒ i was pleased to vote for the report by my colleague, which was ambitious in terms of the objectives to be set for the climate conference in paris at the end of the year.
‒ there is great anticipation for the international climate conference, an event of the utmost importance for the protection of the biosphere.
it's hard not to link global warming in recent decades to an increase in extreme weather events.
the achievement of a legally binding global climate agreement is no longer a wish but a necessity and a commitment from which no one should shy away.
the european parliament, as the report for which i voted requires, comes to cop21 with a clear, united and unequivocal position: halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, increase renewable energy by 30% and energy efficiency by 40% by 2030. europe has long been a world leader in tackling climate change and has set strict emission limits for member states.
we need now for the major international competitors to make the same commitments if we are to avoid the serious and real risk of witnessing massive climate migrations soon.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the international climate agreement to be negotiated at the united nations climate conference in paris from 30 november to 11 december 2015. climate change is one of the major challenges facing humanity.
in march, the eu and its member states committed themselves to jointly meet a binding target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the eu by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990. however, these objectives should be more ambitious.
on the financial side, it is planned that from now until 2020, $100 billion will be transferred to developing countries every year to help them pay for greenhouse gas reductions.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity in the fields of sustainable development, health and the global economy.
rising temperatures, melting glaciers, more droughts and floods are all signs of ongoing climate change.
climate change requires an urgent, responsible and global response, based on solidarity of the international community.
in addition, to strengthen the european union's position in international negotiations, the european parliament must defend the need to set ambitious and realistic targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, increase the share of renewable energy to 45% of the energy mix and achieve energy savings of 40%, and at the paris conference the parties do not meet to try to do something, but to take decisions.
finally, i am convinced that the paris agreement will be ambitious, universal and legally binding in order to provide a long-term response to the climate challenge, although the european union should intensify its diplomatic efforts to better understand the positions of partner countries, encourage them to implement ambitious policies to combat climate change and build alliances in support of this ambition.
‒ a stable climate system is essential for ensuring water supply, sanitation, food security, the maintenance of biodiversity, and peace and prosperity in the world.
unfortunately, however, especially in recent years, the increase in global warming is causing inestimable damage to land and marine ecosystems, such as melting glaciers, droughts, floods, and so on.
first, by calling on all member states to work with all civil society actors (institutions, private sector, ngos and local communities) to implement national strategies for decarbonisation, and to transform the energy sector by 2050, taking corrective action to keep temperature rise below 2°c.
in addition, climate finance, technology transfer, capacity building, scientific research, technological development and innovation will play an essential role in reaching an agreement at the paris conference.
‒ contains a legally binding 2015 protocol which should aim to phase out global carbon emissions by 2050; a binding 50% reduction target for the eu in 2030 in order to stay on track for the minus 2°c benchmark; a binding eu energy efficiency target of 40% by 2030; a binding target for the eu to produce at least 45% of final energy consumption from renewable sources by 2030; the importance of the eu playing an ambitious and central role at the conference by encouraging other parties to take effective measures to maintain compliance with the - 2°c target.
i am voting in favour of the agreement because it provides for measures in particular on respect for local communities particularly vulnerable to adverse climatic conditions, on efforts to adapt to climate change, on the costs of inaction in developing countries and on funds to be allocated within the green climate fund to deal with natural disasters.
‒ climate change is a global threat to human societies and to the maintenance of biodiversity and terrestrial and marine ecosystems, causing loss of life and migration flows, as well as economic, environmental and social damage.
a global, ambitious and legally binding agreement is an important step in the process of combating climate change and the threats it poses, and i therefore vote in favour of it.
‒ unfortunately, this report continues the failed approach of emphasising new global funding instruments, emphasising recognition of 'climate refugee' status and, in general, short-sighted eu climate policies.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution entitled 'towards a new international climate agreement in paris', adopted in view of the 21st conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (cop21), because i believe that at a crucial event it is crucial for the european parliament to reiterate the value of a final agreement in paris.
it has taken a clear stance on commitments to a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the eu by 2030. it is therefore a question of defending this position and committing ourselves to binding decisions.
i therefore hope that the paris agreement will be based on principles of equity and shared but differentiated responsibilities, based on respective capabilities and taking into account national circumstances, and will be a legally binding agreement and therefore able to provide a long-term response to the climate challenge for the coming decades.
the conference's goals include avoiding global warming of more than 2 degrees above pre-industrial temperatures.
it is an ambitious goal, which involves a joint commitment by governments around the world to protect the environment and the climate.
but our work only makes sense if we do it together with all the big players on the world stage and the main emitters of greenhouse gases, to defend our planet, without, however, penalizing our industries and their competitiveness.
‒ i support the report on the subject 'towards a new international climate agreement in paris'.
a stable climate system is one of the greatest challenges in the fields of sustainable development and the world economy.
the european union and its member states have committed themselves to the binding target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the eu by at least 40% by 2030. the aim of the report is to urge governments to implement concrete measures to combat climate change and to achieve a legally binding agreement in paris in 2015 to achieve this goal.
‒ we are facing far-reaching and serious climate change.
as the honourable member points out, these objectives must aim at more ambitious and realistic results leading to greenhouse gas emission reductions of 50% by 2030 and increasing the share of renewable energy to 45% to achieve energy savings of 40%.
in voting in favour of the report, i wanted to support the will to pursue an ambitious and effective policy which not only mobilises the instruments for climate and energy policy but also involves other key areas such as transport, research, innovation and trade or development cooperation.
finally, a long-term response to the climate challenge must be provided, with the union and the member states working with institutions, ngos and other civil society actors to develop climate change mitigation initiatives.
‒ climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity in the fields of sustainable development and the world economy.
in approving this report, we intend to support the commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
we therefore expect a global and legally binding outcome, which will have to pursue a lasting and dynamic objective to guide and strengthen action against climate change, beyond the initial contributions submitted by member states.
we need a forward-looking and effective policy for an energy transition by 2050, mobilising not only the instruments of climate and energy policy but also involving other areas such as transport, research, innovation, trade and development cooperation.
‒ the socioeconomic metabolism of modern societies has produced numerous phenomena of environmental degradation.
centuries of intensive and often uncontrolled exploitation, due to the inability of human society to combine environmental and developmental reasons, have produced many irreversible damages.
the consequences are plain to see, and are particularly evident in the phenomenon of global warming, which is causing the global average temperatures of the air and the oceans to rise, snow and ice to melt widely and the resulting rise in sea levels.
sustainable development is therefore the key challenge of the 21st century and requires that the principles of environmental sustainability be taken into account in all sectoral policies.
this action must be carried out from the local level, with a constant effort to internationalize awareness of environmental problems in order to take the environmental issue to the global scale.
the paris conference is an opportunity to take corrective action and to align ourselves with the european and un objectives of protecting the environment.
‒ ladies and gentlemen, in view of the forthcoming climate conference in paris next december and the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, of which i am a member, i would like to see a global commitment to reducing emissions and a good capacity to adapt to climate change.
‒ environmental protection also requires compliance with the kyoto protocol and the international agreements signed.
the aim of our policies in the various sectors involved should be to bring the interests of industry into line with environmental protection.
the eu's policy on global warming needs binding and concrete measures.
the paris conference is a crucial step towards tackling climate change, and it is not just a matter of 'trying to do something' but of taking concrete decisions.
in my vote in favour today, i hope that an international agreement will be reached quickly, including ambitious and binding targets for emission reductions and energy efficiency and for the use of renewable energy sources by 2030. the eu must continue to lead the way in order to keep global warming below 2°c and to help cut global carbon emissions by 40% to 70% by 2050. these ambitious goals require a great deal of effort in all regions of the world, and the eu certainly cannot stand by and watch.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the achievement of a new international climate agreement because i believe that the european union must urgently address the problem of climate change, which has serious negative effects on the environment, the economy and societies.
at the same time, we must ensure the right balance between environment and industrial policies and, above all, create a balanced international competition, where it is not just european industry that is taking on the fight against climate change.
member states must reach an international agreement setting out concrete objectives and measures to combat the consequences of global warming.
‒ i voted against because i believe that the eu's environmental and climate policies are a complete failure, also because of an overly unilateral approach which leads to excessive costs and constraints being imposed on european industries in the name of protecting the environment, while the call for third countries to adapt to the same environmental standards is in serious danger of being a dead letter once again.
‒ the un climate change conference in paris at the end of the year (cop21) will be tasked with reaching a legally binding and universal climate agreement, with the aim of keeping the temperature rise below 2°c.
climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity in the areas of sustainable development, health and the global economy.
the european union is leading global action on climate change, committing itself to a truly significant reduction in its greenhouse gas emissions.
i also believe that climate change requires an urgent, responsible and global response, based on the solidarity of the entire international community and not just the european one.
i voted in favour of the own-initiative report based on the commission communication 'addressing global climate change beyond 2020' in view of the 21st session of the conference of the parties to the kyoto protocol (unfccc cop21).
i believe that the 2015 protocol should be an ambitious, global, legally binding agreement, aimed at phasing out global carbon emissions by 2050. i also support the objective of achieving a 50% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions within the european union by 2030 compared to the previous 1990 levels.
i also believe that, within the same year, the eu should aim to improve energy efficiency by 40% and produce at least 45% of its energy from renewable sources.
then i 'll do it for them: i ask this parliament and i will ask the commission to speed up the release of solidarity funds for natural disasters, because we have european citizens in extreme need here and we cannot waste precious time in helping them.
the agenda includes the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on industry, research and energy on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down measures concerning access to the open internet and amending directive 2002/22/ec on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services and regulation (eu) no 531/2012 on roaming on public mobile communications networks within the union (10788/2/2015 - c8-0294/2015 - 2013/0309 ((cod)) (rapporteur: vera pilar del castillo) (a8-0300/2015).
there is still a lot to do for the abolition of surcharges to be sustainable throughout the european union.
the fair—use policies and sustainability mechanisms need to be defined.
i think we have made a step forward in the integration of telecommunications markets towards a single market by having two points of reference: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we must prevent the systematic depopulation of entire regions which are at risk of desertification, not only because of climate change, but are at risk of cultural desertification.
it is certainly a step up from the current costs that european citizens have to bear when using their own roaming operators, but the fact remains that roaming costs will not be totally eliminated as the sustainability clause will be introduced which will allow each operator to apply a surcharge to the extent necessary to recover the costs of providing services.
the regulation will eliminate roaming from 15 june 2017, subject to a sustainability clause.
the possibility of offering "privileged courses" on the internet is created, with the sole basis of the commercial exploitation of the network: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the regulation helps to highlight the role of icts, which have contributed 50% to productivity growth in all sectors in recent years and created five jobs for every two people, as a key element for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the regulation also introduces a common framework on the right of access to the internet, in the spirit of sharing and free trade that has animated the global network ecosystem since its inception.
it's not so much a question of how much you pay in relation to income, but what you get in return: the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european union's environmental policy.
this undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years in order to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for information systems; the aim is to strengthen the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and new social applications.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for embedded information systems in various application areas, in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and new societal applications.
the artemis joint undertaking was set up to strengthen the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and new societal applications.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking, set up in 2007, aims to enhance and strengthen the union's competitiveness in the field of sustainability and technology and has played a decisive role in the development of key technologies for embedded information systems in various application areas.
action is needed to ensure the development of sound public systems in the field of social security and health, the construction of a sufficient number of sustainable and adequately equipped health infrastructures, an adequate number of appropriately trained health workers, access to sufficient medical supplies and sound health information systems.
i personally devote a great deal of my energy, as a representative of the public, to health policy because i firmly believe in the eu's decisive role in improving the health of europeans.
but there are a large number of omissions on key issues that should be considered in the interests of the environment, the rule of law, consumers, industry and workers.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, following the scandal involving the measurement of exhaust emissions from cars by volkswagen, it is necessary for the institutions of the european union to take action to punish those who have broken the rules and to prevent future breaches.
‒ there can be no tolerance for environmental pollution caused by the automotive sector.
it also called for fraud in emissions testing to be thoroughly investigated, stressing that the eu's emissions testing system should be strengthened to ensure that limits are respected and vehicles exceeding them are quickly detected.
i voted in favour of the report because excess emissions have harmful effects, including very serious ones, on human health and the environment.
but i want to emphasize the omissions, and therefore the additional actions that must be taken to protect the environment, the law, consumers, industry (especially smes in the car industry) and workers.
it is a serious matter and should open the political debate on the possibility of delegating to an independent body the supervision of tests to verify the conformity of emissions with the limits set by eu legislation.
that is why the new real driving emissions test cycle must be regulated without further delay, to ensure that the mandatory targets for the automotive industry are met and to give european consumers the confidence to buy products that meet the declared values.
air pollution causes over 400,000 deaths a year in europe, at an estimated cost of eur 940 billion a year.
the eu has set strict limits for nox emissions with euro 5 (limit value 180mg/km) and euro 6 (limit value 80mg/km) standards.
parliament strongly condemned any fraud by car manufacturers, expressed concern at the long delay in the response of the commission and the member states to the serious and persistent overruns of emission limits and called on the commission to publish the results of the investigations in member states by 31 march 2016. the commission is also asked to speed up the introduction of the so-called 'real driving emissions' test, i.e.
i also stress that air pollution causes over 430 000 premature deaths per year in the eu and has an estimated cost in terms of health impacts of up to €940 billion per year; nox is one of the main air pollutants responsible for, among other things, lung cancer, asthma and many respiratory diseases, as well as for forms of environmental degradation such as eutrophication and acidification.
‒ in the wake of the volkswagen scandal, the european parliament debated a motion for a resolution tabled by several political groups, which was intended to be a political manifesto of commitment to halting emissions cheating by car companies as soon as possible.
the text that came to this house was the result of tough negotiations between the political groups and contained some agreeable indications for everything that is expected to happen in the near future, from measurements of emissions on the road to vehicle type approval.
‒ the joint resolution i supported summarises the european parliament's position on the recent emissions scandal involving the volkswagen car manufacturer, which has had a serious impact on the reputation of the whole european manufacturing sector.
i therefore believe that it is necessary to define higher common standards and to strengthen the reliability of emissions tests at european level, so as to ensure that an effective measurement system in real driving conditions (real drive emission) is applied without further delay.
in the wake of the volkswagen scandal, the european parliament debated a motion for a resolution tabled by several political groups, which was intended to be a political manifesto of commitment to halting emissions fraud by car companies as soon as possible.
the text that came to this house was the result of tough negotiations between the political groups and contained some agreeable indications as to what is expected to happen in the near future, starting with the measurement of road emissions for the type approval of vehicles.
the recent volkswagen case has inevitably raised a number of alarms and concerns in the union and the world, and we must give our voice and respond to them, to help us re-integrate the eu's development and growth plans into a market framework that is not only economically competitive but also safe for our health and the environment.
the challenge for the eu, and for its products and activities, is to ensure that the future of trade is also sustainable in practice.
the environment is a common good, as is air quality, which is why we need clear and strict eu rules that leave no room for discretion, and above all new european supervisory authorities.
i agree with the calls for new real driving tests, a new eu type-approval process with a single responsible authority, new emissions legislation and a rapid implementation of euro 6 engines.
we are asking above all that workers do not pay for the wrong choices of management by laying off workers, that the company finances compliance with environmental legislation with its own profits rather than cutting costs, and that the protection of employees is ensured at all levels, including european.
i think it is serious that consumers have been misled and that european regulations on the control of emissions from diesel-powered vehicles have been repeatedly violated.
in particular, it is unacceptable that false information has been given about vehicles, which has endangered the health of citizens as well as the environment in which we live.
i also believe that there is a need to improve the monitoring of the implementation of eu environmental legislation and that the establishment of a specific body is of paramount importance.
the union and its citizens need a harmonised european regulatory and control system, focusing on the strengthening and reliability of emissions testing.
after the volkswagen case we have become convinced that fraud has been committed in the type approval tests of cars, as the limits for nitrogen monoxide emissions have been deliberately exceeded for many years by one of the largest and most powerful car manufacturers.
it is our task to ensure that future generations have the cleanest and least polluted environment possible, and we will therefore work together with the other european institutions and the member states to achieve this objective.
parliament, with its direct democratic mandate, has an imperative to make its voice heard in the face of the breaches of environmental and consumer protection rules perpetrated by the volkswagen group.
‒ i could not help but approve this joint motion for a resolution tabled in the wake of the scandal over the nitrogen oxide emissions from certain diesel vehicles.
this is why strong calls should be made for increased emission controls and for the introduction of a real driving emissions test for all vehicles type-approved or registered from 2015 onwards by 2017. it is important to adopt and implement as soon as possible the new test cycles for measuring real-world driving emissions, providing for increased control by the commission, in particular as regards market surveillance, coordination and the follow-up system for vehicles sold in the union.
the case which gave rise to the decision to write a resolution arises from the failure to comply with european standards which are already concerned with the health of citizens and the environment.
with this resolution, we support the european commission's call for national authorities to carry out in-depth checks on various types of vehicles to detect any fraud in emissions tests and to sanction those responsible appropriately.
we also call on the commission to adopt and implement as soon as possible a new system for testing emissions from real driving, extending the verification of emissions from nitrogen oxides (nox) to other pollutants.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution but i think it is grossly lacking in transparency and accountability from the commission, which has done nothing despite knowing about the 'discrepancies' between the emissions of some vehicles during laboratory tests and actual emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
however, despite my vote in favour of the resolution, i would like to express my regret at the rejection of our proposals which called for equally important actions, such as the extension to all member states and to all car manufacturers of the obligation to carry out thorough checks on the emissions of vehicles produced, the refund in the event of irregularities of any tax incentives, if any, the need for detailed, accessible and transparent information on the checks carried out and the establishment of a committee of inquiry by the european parliament following what has happened.
‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector because it is unacceptable that the european consumer is misled about the real value of polluting emissions from vehicles.
emissions which, among other things, have harmful effects on health and the environment.
it is more appropriate than ever to call for fraud in emissions testing to be thoroughly investigated and to stress that those responsible must be sanctioned appropriately.
i think the resolution is timely and measured, particularly where it calls for the eu's emissions testing system to be strengthened.
i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it represents a small step towards transparency in order to establish responsibility for failure to comply with environmental and consumer protection standards, and to punish offenders.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
on the one hand, there are those related to climate research, climate change, health.
shocks that come for economic reasons and shocks that come because of climate change and conflict.
the european union can only play a central role in achieving a global peace based on a vision of a region in which two democratic states, israel and palestine, live side by side in a climate of reconciliation and with secure and recognized borders.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
we recognise the importance of the strategy and its four pillars, particularly as they focus on environments rich in biodiversity and ecosystems that are both important and fragile and already subject to many human impacts.
the final report, which has many interesting and positive points, does not contain some of the important recommendations that we thought we would make in the environment committee, such as the minimum target of 10% of the adriatic and ionian seas covered by marine protected areas by 2020, as indicated by international commitments and the marine strategy framework directive.
we reiterate that the promotion of economic and social prosperity in the region must not be pursued at the expense of the ecological balance, biodiversity and natural resources.
these pipelines have a considerable environmental impact in addition to a visible economic and strategic advantage.
the ionian-adriatic macro-region is a real development opportunity: it is an area of great cultural and environmental value, an extraordinary tourist district, an east-west/north-south bridge, a bridge of peace and cooperation with great commercial potential.
there is no sustainable development of the macro-region without an adequate transport infrastructure network, a bi-directional south-north/east-west network.
sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, the protection of the marine ecosystem, and improved transport and energy connectivity cannot be translated into growth drivers without ambitious planning.
i would like to point out that aquaculture and mariculture represent a business potential that is just waiting to be exploited in an effective and sustainable way.
the agenda includes the report by mr giovanni la via, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory (com (((2015) 0177 - c8-0107/2015 - 2015/0093 ((cod)) (a8-0305/2015).
to date, there is insufficient evidence to show that the consumption of gm foods can have any consequences for human health and the environment.
we, as the five star movement, believe that risk management could eventually be returned to the member states, so that they can be free to manage the health risk that may result from the release of these genetically modified organisms into the environment.
the agenda includes the report by james nicholson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods (com (((2013) 0894 - c7-0487/2013 - 2013/0435 ((cod)) (a8-0046/2014).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the final text the qualifying elements which had been introduced by the committee on the environment have unfortunately disappeared, and these were the elements for which we, as the five star movement, had given our support to the opening of negotiations with the council.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on the environment, i led the parliament's delegation to the trilogue.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleagues on the environment committee for the amendments to the text which are intended to improve the situation, given that we are deciding whether tens and tens of thousands of european citizens will live or die in the coming years.
the lack of will to tackle the problem of air quality and therefore climate change decisively will also weaken a possible ambitious agreement at the next climate conference in paris.
today we have the opportunity to do our part by voting for a text that can significantly reduce air pollution, improve air quality and save lives.
and i spoke of saving lives, because pollution in europe is causing hundreds of thousands of deaths, negatively affecting the gdp of the member states, with very high health-related costs.
the european parliament has the opportunity to show its willingness to set ambitious environmental targets and its concern for the health of its citizens by voting today in the wake of the volkswagen scandal.
mr president, in view of the commission's intention not to withdraw the proposal, given the debate which took place this morning in the house with a broad convergence of all the political groups towards rejecting the proposal, and also given the large majority which was in the committee on the environment on the subject, i ask the house to express itself today with the legislative resolution and then to proceed and continue with the votes on the legislative resolution.
although the priorities supported by the committee on budgets are largely acceptable, i am voting against because i am critical of the general approach, since, for example, as regards administrative expenditure, there is no sign of a reduction in it and it is continuing to increase every year, which is not sustainable at a time when the eu itself is asking for restrictions from the member states.
it is therefore a budget that looks to the future and is based on the idea of inclusive and sustainable development.
i can tell you more in the coming months, but i hope that it will help, in a small way, to support those who invest in the most innovative and sustainable economies.
as for administrative expenditure, there is no sign of any reduction and it is increasing every year, which is not sustainable at a time when the eu itself is asking for restrictions from the member states.
finally, i would like to point out that a high level of environmental and health protection in the union is an indispensable condition for economic prosperity and that food and feed safety and the mechanisms that contribute to protection against natural and man-made disasters are of fundamental importance to all european citizens and, consequently, to the european parliament.
i would like to point out, however, that i voted in favour of a number of important amendments, which called for: to make unemployment and poverty reduction the eu's priorities; the substantial reduction in the general allowance for members; an increase in funding for the school fruit scheme; 'single seat' for a single seat of the european parliament; the increase of funds to be devoted to the fight against climate change; the financing of a pilot project for alternative methods to animal testing.
it is also very significant that we have once again solemnly endorsed the demand for a single seat for the european parliament, in order to put an end to the waste of resources and to streamline the political and parliamentary work of us representatives of the european citizens.
‒ while welcoming the breakdown of funds between the different budget lines presented, i would like to reiterate here the position of the envi committee, of which i am a member, with particular reference to the call for additional funds and funding for environmental research and innovation projects in order to achieve the objectives of horizon 2020 for a resource-efficient and climate-resilient economy and society.
as for administrative expenditure, there is no sign of any reduction and it is increasing every year, which is not sustainable at a time when the eu itself is asking for restrictions from the member states.
the conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources in the area of application and the protection of marine ecosystems where such resources are present play an important role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development.
in particular, in order to safeguard the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of depletion, it was necessary to request member states to grant derogations for the use of trawls and seines and the prohibition of coastal trawl fishing in the black sea.
my vote in favour is due to the fact that the agreement in question provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation aimed at promoting the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of depletion.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation because the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), which covers the mediterranean, the black sea and the intermediate waters, has adopted a series of measures aimed at ensuring the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans in fishing activities and the sustainable development of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
‒ the gfcm agreement provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and at low risk of depletion.
the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean plays an important role in cooperation between countries for the development, conservation, management and sustainable use of the marine resources of the mediterranean and the black sea.
these recommendations cover important issues such as sustainable fishing for red coral, bycatch of turtles, seabirds, seals and whales, and exploitation of small pelagic stocks.
i welcome the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on the transposition into union law of a number of recommendations made by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, which provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation aimed at promoting the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of depletion.
‒ the proposal aims to transpose into union law a set of recommendations made by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), which provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation and sustainable management of fisheries resources in the mediterranean and the black sea.
‒ following the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), the european union acceded to the agreement concluded therein, which provides a framework for multilateral cooperation aimed at promoting the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at sustainable levels.
the amendments are intended to incorporate into european legislation the recent conservation and control measures adopted by the gfcm, including measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral and for the incidental capture of seabirds, turtles, seals and cetaceans, but also some exceptional derogations for trawling in the black sea.
‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation because i am convinced that the marine ecosystem must be protected through a number of measures, including the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of bycatch of birds and sea turtles and the protection of other species inhabiting our seas.
to this end, a proposal was submitted to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 by introducing article 34a, which would allow states to ban food or feed containing or based on gmos without, however, invoking environmental or health reasons which are subject to the exclusive assessment of the european food safety authority (efsa).
for these reasons, and given the impracticability of the present proposal, we expect the commission to commit itself to formulating a new proposal compatible with the internal market and the eu's international trade obligations, and able to take into account the needs of european production along with the possible consequences for the environment and human health.
the commission has recently tabled an amendment to regulation 1829/2003 concerning the placing on the market of gm feed, with a view to introducing another article (31b) which ultimately aims to give member states the possibility of banning food or feed containing or based on gmos without, however, invoking environmental or health reasons.
i voted against because this danger must be stopped, in the interests of both the health of european citizens and the environment itself.
the union must reiterate its role as guarantor of the health and well-being of its citizens and consumers, and as such, safeguard through appropriate checks that the new foods that arrive on our tables are safe for human and environmental health.
however, its content must take account of the principles of precaution, protection of the environment and health.
‒ we welcome the draft report, as it sets clear deadlines and definitions for the whole process of placing novel foods on the market, taking into account the precautionary, environmental and food safety principles, and also provides safeguards against adverse impact on human health.
the limits for pollutants have been lowered compared with the envi proposal, but ammonia and methane (with the exception of internal emissions) have been kept within the scope of the directive.
the situation with regard to air pollution is serious, the air we breathe every day is becoming more polluted and it is, in my view, essential to have a strong nec directive which can drive ambitious air quality policies in all sectors.
‒ the eu commission's proposal to set higher national limits on emissions of the main pollutants is right.
air pollution causes about 400 000 premature deaths in the eu each year.
the new rules could save up to 40 billion euros by 2030 to combat environmental pollution.
the new rules will also help to reduce mercury (hg) emissions.
but now we must continue to fight against food waste, also to reduce pollution and soil consumption.
as a greenhouse gas, we interpret its inclusion in this directive as a (yet another) clever attempt to mix anti-pollution legislation with that related to climate policies (as the saying goes: pears with apples).
‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
in today's vote parliament has done its part by approving a text which can significantly reduce air pollution and improve air quality and save people's lives, as pollution in europe causes hundreds of thousands of deaths and has a negative impact on the gdp of member states with very high health-related costs.
‒ as you know, air pollution is a serious environmental health problem in the european union.
indeed, poor air quality is estimated to be responsible for over 400,000 premature deaths each year and causes illness, hospitalization and millions of lost working days, as well as damage to biodiversity, crops and buildings.
i could therefore only vote in favour of a text aimed at limiting emissions, providing access to up-to-date information on the progress of national reduction commitments, taking specific measures to protect the health of vulnerable groups, supporting the transition to investment in clean and efficient technologies with tax incentives, organising regular and routine environmental inspections and ensuring public consultation.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because it deals with an important and crossborder issue for both human health and the environment, which concerns all citizens of the union and is now a strategic priority.
in europe, the total external health costs to society from air pollution are estimated to be between eur 330 and 940 billion per year.
an excellent example of this would be the introduction of low emission zones and a penalty system based on pollution from vehicles, with the aim of reducing diesel vehicle emissions in urban areas most affected by nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions.
‒ recognising that transport contributes to air quality, i believe that producers should use clean technologies to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides (nox), particulate matter and other pollutants.
‒ air pollution is a serious environmental health problem in the european union.
poor air quality is responsible for over 400,000 premature deaths each year and causes disease, hospitalizations and millions of lost work days, as well as damage to biodiversity, crops and buildings.
the proposal includes access to up-to-date information on the progress of national reduction commitments; cost-effectiveness of emission reduction measures; specific measures to protect the health of vulnerable groups; having air quality levels recommended by the world health organisation (who); supporting the transition to investment in clean and efficient technologies with tax incentives; regular and routine environmental inspections and market surveillance; public consultation; a 'clean air' fund and a european forum to facilitate the coordinated implementation of the 'clean air' programme.
air pollution is responsible for over 400 000 deaths each year in the european union.
the who and the oecd have estimated that the total health costs attributable to air pollution amount to over €1.4 trillion, equivalent to about one tenth of the gdp of the entire european union.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached between the ep and the council on the european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants because i believe that the eu should have robust legislation to protect air quality.
the quality of the air we breathe is not just an environmental issue, but a serious european problem: the data tells us that 90% of the citizens in the eu live in polluted places and that there are about 400,000 premature deaths annually linked to this, costing our health systems hundreds of billions a year.
i approve the forecast of limits and thresholds for emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia, fine particulate matter, methane and vocs: the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new eu-wide climate change strategy.
finally, i agree with the decision to provide for a certain amount of flexibility on specific points in the light of the situation of our farms, and in particular the exclusion of methane emissions from ruminants: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve air quality.
it is clear that these concerns and the eu's international commitments require reform with new binding targets for 2025 and 2030. we also welcome the introduction of limits, particularly for ammonia, to emissions from the agricultural sector, which is responsible for 40% of air pollution.
the cost of inaction is too high and agriculture, like all other sectors, must contribute by limiting its emissions.
the proposal also fits within the broader framework of the eu's long-term objectives, with particular reference to the fight against climate change.
as you know, i am very concerned about the problem of air pollution and i believe that we must continue to work together to solve this problem of enormous importance to the european and international community.
‒ environmental pollution causes about 400 000 premature deaths in the eu each year.
the new rules contained in the commission's proposal could save up to €40 billion in costs to combat environmental pollution by 2030. the commission proposal repeals and replaces the existing nec directive, setting new emission limits for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds other than methane for 2020 and 2030. the proposal also aims to extend the scope of the directive to particulate matter (pm2.5) from 2020 and to methane from 2030. the 2020 targets reflect the commitments that were made at international level under the 2012 gothenburg protocol.
in view of the serious health risks and the considerable environmental impacts which still result from air pollution, i hope that my vote in favour will lead to a gradual reduction of harmful emissions into the atmosphere as soon as possible, for the sake of the health of the european citizens.
‒ despite the improvements achieved in recent years, air pollution in europe remains a contingent problem, but at the same time we must ensure the right balance between environment and industrial policies, taking into account the technological and economic capabilities of european industry and the possible loss of jobs.
‒ air pollution is responsible for the premature deaths of more than 400 000 people each year, with annual global costs estimated at between €300 and €900 billion, according to data provided by the european commission.
in addition to the huge human and economic costs, poor air quality is also causing serious damage to the natural environment through phenomena such as eutrophication and acid rain.
these measures are necessary to combat pollution by these substances in all sectors and to limit their effects on people and the environment.
action in this direction was particularly needed with regard to urban areas, where european citizens are exposed to air pollution levels considered harmful to human health.
air pollution is a serious environmental health problem in the european union.
the commission must ensure that all air pollution policies of european origin are fit for purpose in order to achieve air quality objectives in the union.
to this end, the commission must also implement without delay the new euro 6 proposal for a regulation on emissions in real driving conditions.
‒ the air pollution situation in europe is serious.
every year air pollution causes over 400,000 premature deaths in the countries of the european union.
air pollution also has a serious and often devastating impact on nature and biodiversity, on crops and, not least, on our artistic and cultural heritage.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from the transport of dangerous goods.
only by stepping up our efforts and achieving ambitious targets can we ensure a healthier environment for future generations.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because i consider air pollution to be an important problem, which transcends national borders and affects all citizens.
the issue of air pollution has been totally ignored by the political class and this neglect has led to the issue re-emerging today more strongly and worryingly than ever.
the economic impact of air pollution is estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year.
‒ today i voted in favour of the resolution proposing a revision of the necd (national emissions ceiling) directive in order to reduce toxic emissions that contribute to air pollution.
i find the report particularly timely in that it states that the local government level must play a role in defining best practice in dealing with air pollution and at the same time i am pleased that an appropriate formula has been found with regard to methane so that it does not harm our farmers.
‒ parliament voted today on a very important report which aims to reduce harmful emissions from a number of pollutants in the years ahead by limiting the impact of these substances on human health and the environment.
the cost of poor air quality is higher in terms of human lives than road accidents, making it the leading environmental cause of premature death in the eu.
i hope that in the coming months the text voted by parliament will not be stripped of its essential content, because firstly our citizens are demanding rules that are strongly protective of their health and, secondly, it is important that the eu sends a strong signal also in the run-up to the 2015 paris conference on climate change (cop21).
it calls for the high potential of renewable energy sources to be recognised, calls for all available sources to be exploited, and highlights the risks associated with offshore and onshore oil and gas exploration and exploitation.
the adriatic-ionian region will benefit from growth in transport, the maritime economy and environmental protection, which together will benefit tourism.
the report, which i support, highlights the four pillars on which eusair insists: the commission will continue to support the development of the maritime sector through the following measures: innovative growth in the maritime sector (blue growth), strengthening infrastructure and connectivity (connecting the region), better protection of the environment through increased cooperation (environmental quality) and development of the tourism potential of the region (sustainable tourism).
the plan aims to realise the opportunities of the region's maritime economy through improved energy connectivity, but also to stimulate research and innovation for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises by improving european connections, such as the baltic-adriatic and scandinavian-mediterranean corridors.
i believe that the strategy should be an opportunity to intensify the exchange of good practice, such as the projects developed by coastal action groups, which are often a virtuous example of sustainability.
the cooperation to be carried out with the collaboration of four eu member states (croatia, greece, italy and slovenia) will help align the policies of the neighbouring countries with those of the european union in order to tackle together common challenges (such as maritime or environmental challenges) that transcend national borders and that necessarily require the contribution and commitment of several countries.
concentrating on a limited number of objectives (blue growth, connecting the region, environment and sustainable tourism) paves the way for the launch of concrete projects to find solutions to problems that affect more territories and will certainly open up development opportunities.
the strategy is based on four pillars: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment and to promote sustainable and competitive tourism.
the main priorities identified in the strategy are: the development of the fisheries and aquaculture sector, the improvement of links with the european corridors, the protection of the marine environment and the biodiversity of the ecosystem, the diversification of the tourist offer and sustainable tourism management, the integration of the western balkans into the eu and the coherence between the eu macro-regional strategies.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because the eusair strategy offers the countries of the region an exceptional opportunity to turn the page on the economic and political problems of the past and work together, under the guidance of the commission, to pursue prosperity and sustainable development.
i also fully agree with the rapporteur on the pillars adopted for the new strategy: blue growth (maritime fisheries, aquaculture, blue technologies, maritime and marine governance and services), regional connectivity (maritime transport, intermodal links with inland waterways, energy networks), environmental quality (marine environment, transnational terrestrial habitats and biodiversity) and sustainable and competitive tourism (diversified tourism offer, sustainable and responsible tourism management).
the strategy focuses on the opportunities of the maritime economy: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
the second stresses the importance of joint planning of investments in the development of liquefied natural gas (lng) terminals and missing pipeline networks in the macro-region, in order to contribute to achieving greater energy independence and security.
it is structured around four interdependent pillars of strategic importance, all equally relevant to the objectives of sustainable growth: blue growth, connecting the region (transport and energy networks), environmental quality and sustainable tourism.
the four pillars of the strategy relate to the restructuring and expansion of energy and transport infrastructure, with new interconnections with the ten-t corridors; the development of a tourist and cultural offer that will serve to de-seasonalize tourism; sustainable growth through the blue economy to overcome the economic crisis and better protect the marine and coastal environment and, finally, greater cooperation between the countries of the macro-region that will allow for common responses to emergencies such as immigration.
we need to give new impetus to strengthening peace, social cohesion, economic development, environmental sustainability and security in south east europe.
finally, we call on the commission to pursue maximum efficiency in the use of all available funding instruments, in order to maximise impact, achieve better results and encourage sustainable economic growth in the region.
the adriatic and ionian macro-region needs common and careful management because, due to its own peculiar geographical configuration, it is more vulnerable to pollution and overexploitation of fish stocks.
in order to create new jobs, the eu strategy promotes the development of blue growth, energy networks and transport links, environmental quality and sustainable and competitive tourism.
the vote in favour by parliament of this strategy is part of the process of revitalizing a europe of solidarity, ready to overcome differences and difficulties and to allow the development of areas of great cultural and environmental value.
the regions concerned face similar challenges, from lack of infrastructure to threats to the environment.
infrastructure is also important: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the water supply in the adriatic, both in terms of maritime infrastructure and energy infrastructure, with a plan for interconnections between the two sides of the adriatic and for the production of energy from renewable sources.
the report focuses on the following sectors of the maritime economy: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
although some of our proposals were adopted which would promote the economic development of the area by focusing on its environmental and tourist characteristics rather than on the oil industry, i abstained on the vote because there were still important criticisms, especially in two paragraphs of the text.
the other involves joint planning of investments for the development of liquefied natural gas (lng) terminals and gas pipeline networks (trans-adriatic pipeline, tap) which may have serious environmental consequences.
smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as outlined in the europe 2020 strategy is the driving force for cohesion policy and must continue to be so.
‒ the report focuses on cohesion policy in relation to the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
it continues to make a positive and substantial contribution to achieving the europe 2020 strategy objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because cohesion policy is the eu's main method of investment, growth and development, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which aims to reduce regional disparities and promote convergence.
i also want all the energies and capacities to be mobilised and directed towards pursuing the europe 2020 strategy objectives of sustainable growth and jobs.
the objectives of cohesion policy have evolved over time to support investment in support of the eu's main priorities, demonstrating their adaptability and effectiveness, while maintaining the central objective of reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions, strengthening regional potential and promoting sustainable development.
‒ cohesion policy accounts for over a third of the eu budget and is the main investment, growth and development policy, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep's own-initiative report on cohesion policy and the review of the eu 2020 strategy because i think it is very important that the ep informs the ec in time of its position on the mid-term review of the eu 2020 strategy, due by the end of 2015. cohesion policy and the eu 2020 strategy are closely linked, with cohesion policy closely aligned with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth underpinning the eu 2020 strategy, through the 11 thematic objectives of the common regulatory provisions.
the link between the cohesion funds (esi) and the efsi, and the effective complementarity and additionality between the two sources of investment in the coming years, is therefore more urgent than ever, in order to emerge from the crisis and promote sustainable growth and quality employment.
europe 2020 is a long-term strategy built around five objectives: employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability.
‒ cohesion policy aims to deliver smart, inclusive and sustainable growth and is one of the key pillars for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
the european union must pursue the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it aims to reduce regional disparities and promote convergence and has a budget of eur 351.8 billion until the end of 2020. it is closely aligned with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
as the current cohesion policy is fully aligned with europe 2020 and contributes to the achievement of its smart, sustainable and inclusive development goals, it is very important to take stock of the progress already made and the challenges ahead from the perspective of cohesion policy.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i consider cohesion policy to be a very important investment resource as well as a tool for pursuing smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the union's intervention must always be based on solidarity and sustainability, and be careful to provide responses that are proportionate to real needs and to prevent regions that are already disadvantaged or affected by the economic crisis from paying the highest price for changes in european economic planning.
therefore, the application of article 23 should only take place in exceptional situations to allow for the achievement of a sustainable and effective cohesion policy and under the supervision of the european parliament, as the main democratic guarantor of the correct application of the macroeconomic conditionality provisions of the cpr.
in my view the sole objective of article 23 of the cpr should be to achieve a more sustainable and efficient cohesion policy.
‒ cohesion policy aims to strengthen the eu's economic, social and territorial cohesion and, in particular, to reduce the gap between regions by promoting balanced and harmonious socioeconomic development, in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i respond to my colleague mussolini by saying that the objective was obviously to modernise ourselves, to make these procedures faster, because it is clear that in 2015 we do not want to waste time in very long lines at airports to put hand stamps again, and we can modernise ourselves with the technological tools that we have quickly.
for example, if we want to achieve, as we have said, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and if we want to increase employment to 75%, we cannot then implement for years, in an economic recession, only austerity policies which have in fact blocked the competitiveness and development of our system.
tourism from competence to ambition: and our ambition is to increase our potential, but in a sustainable and responsible way, taking into account the challenges of climate change and respecting the environment.
all member states, no one excluded, will increasingly have an attractive capacity as a destination, because the key to success in the tourism sector is to make the most of the territorial peculiarities that lie in culture and cultural heritage, traditions, environment and biodiversity, food and wine, sport, wellness and so on.
in order to maintain existing levels and attract new tourist flows, it is essential to promote quality, sustainable and inclusive cultural tourism, to conserve and enhance europe's cultural and natural heritage, and to strike the right balance between tourism development and the safeguarding of cultural heritage.
the market is not everything, there is the protection of the landscape, the territory and the environment, there are other values, such as the quality of the work of the employees, which is very low in this sector.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the adoption of this report on sustainable tourism, and we hope that europe will finally decide to pay more attention to this sector, which could be the driving force of our economy and a way out of the economic and employment crisis we are facing.
however, global demand is changing and supply must therefore be diversified, making it sustainable and more consistent with the european common heritage: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote tourism, not the 'bite and run' approach, but the 'experiential tourism', a slow, seasonal approach, including sports and religious activities, which promotes small towns and often follows european cultural routes.
this lack of awareness is evident when we highlight the delay in the formation of a european consciousness and when we consider that, although it responds to many of the european priorities - sustainable growth, employment, the digital single market and fairness - tourism does not have a dedicated line in the budget of the european union, but an incoherent allocation of funds, pilot projects and preparatory actions.
this resolution, and i congratulate mrs de monte on her excellent work, is aimed at meeting this strategic need, both for material purposes (the safeguarding and preservation of historic and monumental beauty) and for intangible purposes (the strengthening of european identity, multicultural understanding and sustainability).
i would like to reassure my maltese colleague that the aim of the report is undoubtedly to take account of environmental aspects and also of the quality of work, also to improve, why not, the level of wages, indeed it must certainly be so, and to ensure that health does not give rise to social dumping but is an increase in quality in all the member states.
not only that: the proposal, which contains elements that are not compatible with wto rules, does not adequately protect european citizens and the environment from the risks arising from gmos, since any national bans on their use would be impossible to implement under the rules of the eu's common market.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the taxation of energy products is a step in the right direction.
i welcome the call for member states to introduce a national citizenship income, but this is not enough to make the report sustainable.
‒ to promote the inclusion of the long-term unemployed in the labour market, sustainable measures to promote the competitiveness of the economy should be promoted.
in addition, longterm unemployment has very high costs for society due to the waste of skills and the increase in social spending.
‒ remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) could be used to provide services of various kinds such as infrastructure monitoring (railways, dams and energy plants), natural disaster assessment, precision farming operations, media production and parcel delivery in isolated regions.
it is therefore necessary to propose european standards in order to ensure a favourable investment environment and to foster the development of a globally competitive european rpas industry.
sustainable, social and responsible tourism is another very important tool to be promoted, especially by encouraging digitisation and the use of new technologies.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation of the union's policy on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation of the union's policy on the environment.
the report underlines that the diversity of european languages - official, co-official, minority and lesser-known - is the foundation on which europe's cultural heritage is built and is the key to sustainable and responsible tourism.
this lack of awareness is evident when one considers the delay in the formation of a european consciousness and when one considers that, despite responding to many of the european priorities (sustainable growth, employment, digital single market and fairness), tourism has no dedicated line in the eu budget, but an incoherent breakdown into funds, pilot projects and preparatory actions.
the report aims to meet this strategic need, with both tangible (the safeguarding and preservation of historic and monumental beauty) and intangible (the strengthening of european identity, multicultural understanding and sustainability).
‒ the report addresses the promotion of tourism in europe as a factor of economic growth and sustainable and responsible development.
an important first step is the implementation of a common european strategy in the tourism sector, which would involve the creation of an integrated offer of cultural products between member states, the responsible and sustainable management of available resources, investing in digitisation, responding better to consumer needs and harmonising taxation systems and regulations to protect travellers.
‒ the report addresses the promotion of tourism in europe as a factor of economic growth and sustainable and responsible development.
the main themes of the report are: promoting europe as a tourist destination and creating a european brand to be exported worldwide; promoting pan-european and transnational tourism products; creating transnational thematic itineraries; redeveloping abandoned and disused areas; enhancing cultural heritage; creating a european quality brand; enhancing coastal and maritime tourism; completing the european charter for sustainable and responsible tourism.
i am voting in favour because i consider the proposal interesting, particularly the aspects relating to sustainable tourism, the sharing economy and digitalisation, and following the adoption of an amendment by us which provides for the promotion of 'made in' brands in order to avoid the risk that a single european brand could penalise the many italian excellences, being the first less attractive.
quality, sustainability and greater accessibility of tourist services and destinations must therefore be at the heart of our tourism promotion policies.
the resolution also stresses the importance of sustainable, responsible and social tourism, in addition to the 'european charter for sustainable and responsible tourism'.
the resolution also calls for the development of networks of green routes covering rural areas, forests and smaller natural sites, complementing existing transport infrastructure networks with new eco-sustainable solutions.
i would also like to highlight some of the paragraphs in the report which aim to strengthen european branding and marketing policies for sustainable and responsible tourism, in the context of an increasingly shared and digitalised economy.
the tourism sector needs all the support of the european union and we must work to develop a model focused on quality, sustainability and the creation of highly specialised professionals.
i therefore believe that the provision of tourism services must take account of the difficulties linked to climate change, the scarcity of water resources, the pressure on biodiversity and the risks that mass tourism poses to cultural heritage.
in this regard, it is essential to encourage initiatives to promote sustainable tourism.
in order to respond to the new needs of a market faced with very active and determined third country players, it is necessary that the commission continue to allocate resources to create a favourable environment for the development of tourism enterprises that can take full advantage of innovation and digital information technologies.
increasing resources and investment in infrastructure, simplifying rules and supporting sustainable tourism are key elements in structuring a long-term strategy that benefits the tourism sector and the european economy as a whole.
i voted in favour of the report which deals with the promotion of tourism in europe as a factor of economic growth and sustainable and responsible development.
among the themes addressed, i would like to highlight the development of coastal and maritime tourism, the promotion of sustainable, responsible and social tourism, the sharing economy and digitalisation.
yes, there's definitely some waste that needs to be removed and there's so much to do and operate.
but it seems that we almost don't want to realize that there are policies, even international ones, that affect our economy: and we have seen this especially in this period, with the fact that the euro has fallen, with the fact that the energy bill has fallen, with the price of oil having fallen, and that has certainly given our economies a little bit of a boost.
but investment and fiscal responsibility must be compatible with sustainable economic growth and the creation of quality jobs.
there were probably a number of other issues that were raised, but to give a rather more general summary, i think the approach we are now preparing in the next european semester in the annual growth survey is a balanced approach which takes into account different concerns, and we hope it will also ensure sustainable and balanced economic growth and strengthen job creation, something we need in europe very much.
we wonder at this point what the commission intends to do: the european union is the only country in the world which has a policy of protecting its citizens from the dangers of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european aviation sector is facing many challenges, risks and changes, and that is why we expect the european commission to come up with an ambitious aviation package based on the concepts of sustainability and competitiveness.
the impact of aviation on the climate can no longer be ignored if we consider that the transport sector is the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases and that the international civil aviation organization has been specifically called upon to work towards a drastic reduction of emissions by 2016. i therefore hope that the commission's package will include solutions to reduce co2 emissions, as called for by cop21, and that it will give priority to the development of biofuels for aviation that can reduce co2, the environmentally friendly development of airport terminals and new commercial models such as the issuing of integrated tickets.
the two trust funds for syria and africa will face many challenges: extreme poverty, weak institutions, lack of infrastructure, environmental stress.
it should be remembered that improved efficiency in public administration has a direct impact on the economic environment and is therefore essential to boost competitiveness, growth and employment.
as the report indicates, the union's strategic objective must be to define support programmes for structural investment that ensure the interoperability of systems and technologies used to ensure a higher quality of public services, while creating an environment of increased competitiveness for businesses and, consequently, greater satisfaction of citizens' needs.
the interoperability of public administrations enhances the potential quantity of public services by creating a more competitive environment for businesses, ensuring benefits for european citizens and the consolidation of the digital single market.
interoperability in public administrations at cross-border level offers great results in the areas of crime prevention, environmental, tax, corporate and customs law, cross-border healthcare, management of european funds and public procurement: i therefore believe that a programme on the interoperability of european public administrations, managed by the commission, which ensures uniformity and convergence between the different member states, is essential.
for the first time we have the opportunity to build a european electoral law: let's not waste it.
european aviation is a growth engine, in terms of productivity and employment, and it is positive that this report underlines the importance of the sustainable development of this sector through the involvement of all the actors involved (airlines, international and regional airports) but also through the research and innovation of the european aviation industry.
i believe that by presenting the package the commission should give a strong impetus to increase the sustainability of the european aviation sector and improve its competitiveness.
the commission's package will therefore have to include solutions to reduce co2 emissions, the environmentally friendly development of airport terminals and new business models such as integrated ticketing.
the efdd group's proposal emphasises the need to focus on the safety aspects of aircraft and passengers, to implement sustainability in aviation, focusing on both new technologies and new fuels, in order to reduce the impact on the environment by reducing waste and investing in technological innovation.
the report calls on the commission to take account of certain critical issues in the context of a comprehensive approach to regulating safety, the environment and performance.
our report stresses in particular the need to focus on the safety aspects of aircraft and passengers, to implement the sustainability of aviation, focusing on both new technologies and new fuels, in order to reduce the impact on the environment.
i therefore vote in favour of safer and more environmentally sustainable transport.
the package is badly needed to make the european aviation sector more sustainable and competitive, to strengthen european airlines, airports and the aviation industry, to ensure a level playing field in the global market and to define a long-term strategy for the european aviation sector.
the sector is responsible for 13% of european co2 emissions.
‒ the aviation package should provide the necessary impetus to make the european aviation sector more sustainable and competitive by strengthening airlines, airports and the european aviation industry.
in addition, as a member of the envi committee and as a person who is sensitive to environmental issues, i am in favour of the measures that will be implemented to reduce the consumption and emissions of aircraft.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the future aviation package because i agree with the european parliament's decision to increase the sustainability of the european aviation sector and improve its competitiveness.
a globalisation that strengthens the multilateral system, that aims to share fair and inclusive rules, that takes into account the needs and requirements of the least developed countries, and that focuses on economic development, of course, but also social, environmental and human development in a broad sense.
one way is certainly to respect, in the agricultural negotiations under way, article 20 of the marrakesh agreement on agriculture, which states that the principles of non-direct trade must be respected: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency.
the objective is no longer elusive: inclusive and sustainable growth and lower trade costs through transparency and legal certainty.
it can therefore be a model for future agreements and for this very reason it is essential to monitor all aspects of it very closely, including those relating to the chapter on sustainable development, which is becoming increasingly important in the light of the european commission's trade strategy.
pending the formal conclusion of the ratification process, quito's participation in the free trade agreement extends the geographical scope of this important, cutting-edge treaty on the protection of social, labour and environmental standards.
i would like to invite you and your colleagues to reflect on the link we all know between the geopolitics of energy and the geopolitics of terror.
but, as the objectives of the energy transition are still ambitious and require investment, we believe that the free market and this economic model can actually have that long-term vision necessary for investment that is based on private investment.
we therefore believe that a new deal, a new investment, a new quantitative easing is needed to finance what is the european energy transition, because the challenge is truly great and extraordinary.
the european union must remain a leader in the transition to a low-carbon economy; this transition must be socially sustainable and focused on real benefits for consumers and for the development of european industry.
in building the energy union, europe must continue to fully exercise its role as a geopolitical actor beyond its borders and, finally, and i will dwell on this, the energy union must be built on the foundations of sound governance.
the governance of the energy union can be built in a minimal way, i.e.
as a regulator of member states' decisions in the form of the various national climate and energy plans, but it is much more far-sighted that the governance of the energy union is challenging and makes truly european choices, rather than being the sum of national determinations made in the different capitals of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament is talking about energy union, but we are not capable of monetary union, we are not capable of union on terrorism, we are not capable of union on immigration, and we want to have energy union, after the vast majority of you here have criticised and opposed putin and do not want russian gas to be transported to europe.
i appreciate the commission's commitment to achieving the objectives of the energy union strategy.
an integrated energy agenda needs to be developed which is not simply a summary of the positions of european capitals.
vice-president šefčovič reminded us that we need to improve both the 'software' and the 'hardware' of the internal energy market.
stronger collaboration between the eu and member states in the evaluation of national energy plans, together with the annual energy union state of the art reports, will allow the strategy to be refined.
i particularly support the new deal with consumers to combat energy poverty and the challenge of less, more diversified and more efficient consumption of resources.
consumer protection and business sustainability are two elements that must therefore be balanced, also to allow for adequate claims management.
in this field, seven council measures have become obsolete: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the european union's environmental policy and to promote the european year of the environment.
the european union has been a non-cooperating contracting party to the enlarged commission of the ccsbt since 2006. the european union has pursued a policy of very active participation in all regional fisheries organisations, with the aim of contributing to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
but above all, this action line will promote consistency in the union's conservation approach across the oceans and reinforce its commitment to the long-term conservation and sustainable use of fisheries resources worldwide.
on the basis of the commitments entered into in the provisions of the united nations convention of 10 december 1982 on the law of the sea, the european union has pursued a policy of very active participation in all regional fisheries organisations, with a view to contributing to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
i believe that the european union must commit itself, as it is doing, to contributing to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and for this reason it is very active in all the regional fisheries organisations.
‒ i am pleased to be able to renew today my commitment to safeguarding biodiversity in europe, a subject on which my colleagues and i in the envi committee have had a thorough debate during our meetings this month.
the eu's main objective is to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal fishing.
the fisheries sector is one of the most important economic sectors in the european territory and for this reason the institutions must ensure that a policy of active participation is put in place in all regional fisheries organisations in order to ensure rational and sustainable management of fisheries resources and a clear and decisive fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
our objective of balancing consumer protection with corporate sustainability has been achieved through this text.
child poverty deprives millions of children of access to education, health care services, protection, recreation and leisure, balanced nutrition and a normal family environment.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to give children the opportunity to live in an environment which enables them to grow and develop the cognitive, communication, social and emotional skills which are essential for their future.
i believe that a transition to quality control is needed to ensure that interventions achieve long-term and sustainable results.
the european union's contribution to the international arena in the fields of diplomacy and security, humanitarian aid and economic aid, and its concrete commitment to promoting environmentally sound and sustainable policies, place it at the forefront of the united nations.
this is done by making its voice heard on issues of fundamental importance, such as reform of the un system, and by expanding its influence, especially in areas where it has the tools and capacity to take a leading role, such as action for sustainable development.
the eu can and must play a leading role in the world in protecting human rights, promoting a sustainable and inclusive development model, supporting democracy and civil liberties, encouraging the fight against climate change, disseminating knowledge and expertise, moving towards a more just and cohesive world, and countering dictatorships and international terrorism.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on strengthening the eu's role in the un system because i believe that many of the problems facing the european union in the areas of peace and security, environment and sustainable development, immigration and human rights, international trade and economic growth require global solutions.
finally, i believe that the problem of environmental sustainability is a serious one for future generations and that it cannot be postponed any longer.
i therefore hope that the un climate conference (cop21) will be a fruitful cooperation between the eu and the un, so as to ensure that a binding and universal agreement is reached.
the european union in turn shares and promotes the values and objectives of the un charter, for example by promoting peace, security and progress (think of the common foreign and security policy cfsp and the common security and defence policy csdp), by promoting the economic, social and environmental progress of developing countries, by combating social and food inequalities and poverty, and by providing humanitarian assistance.
greater and more intensive eu-un cooperation will facilitate the participation of civil society in the political process, improve the lives of future generations and ensure equitable and sustainable development for all.
i am equally pleased with the reference to environmental protection, compliance with the directives on health and safety at work and greater attention to local people.
such measures would be fully compatible with european industrial, trade and climate policies and could immediately ensure increased global competitiveness.
we have very different energy costs than we have outside this continent, and let me tell you, we have much better environmental performance than we have outside this continent.
this report on energy, indirect costs, compensation, the harmonization of such compensation, the idea of developing the ets and, within a discussion which, as has been said, must protect us from the risk of china being granted market economy status ..... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to sincerely thank the rapporteur, mr martin, for the work he has done and for having taken up a challenge, which i believe is the challenge we face when we talk about steel, namely that of not abandoning a key production sector but, at the same time, not making the maintenance, definition and, i hope, following paris, the implementation of those environmental standards which must be a pillar of the construction of the union, conditional on anything.
the steel sector is facing a very difficult challenge, especially with china, a country which does not respect environmental rules and plays the game of unfair competition.
we are called upon to propose alternatives to this economic and ecological failure.
we must understand how much steel we really need and produce it in a way that respects safety, health and the environment.
this also means closing obsolete plants and investing in research aimed at sustainability, encouraging the conversion to the green economy and the circular economy.
it is now time to open our eyes and react, leading a new process of defending and equating the sustainable production system in the global reality, starting with the most complex and strategic sectors such as steel, and i thank my colleague martin very much for this work.
increasing and often unfair, i would say sometimes illegal, competition from outside europe, lack of investment in innovation and production, lack of access to raw materials, rising and anti-competitive energy prices and environmental sustainability are the main challenges for the sector.
europe should be proud of its steel industry: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a good one, but also a good one.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the fund was set up in the wake of the severe floods that devastated central europe in the summer of 2002. since then, it has been used as many as 70 times in response to different types of environmental disasters, including floods, wildfires, earthquakes, storms and droughts.
‒ the joint draft general budget of the eu for 2016 does not address the problems of structural costs or make the cuts in all the waste that would be absolutely necessary in a time of crisis such as the current one.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
it is therefore a budget that looks to the future and is based on the idea of inclusive and sustainable development.
firstly, parliament has ignored the council's request to determine the substantial budget lines which are not priority and which can possibly be reduced, making it more difficult to reduce waste in a real and effective way, and thus not allowing any significant cuts on many items which in our view could be reduced.
those substances for which there is scientific evidence of the likelihood of serious effects on human health or the environment.
dehp is classified as a toxic substance of very high concern because of its endocrine disrupting properties in the environment.
therefore, also in view of the hazardous nature of dehp as a toxic substance for health, which is included in annex xiv to the reach regulation, it seems to me appropriate to reject the applications for authorisation and to safeguard the protection of human health and the environment.
there are low molecular weight, which are the most dangerous for human health and the environment, and high molecular weight, which are considered safe by the european authorities.
i hope, therefore, that we can achieve cooperation which will make it possible to pay the right price in the right place, and not to have to waste time on diversions which do not bring any economic benefit to the territories.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the situation must be tackled on several fronts; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
today, the middle way that pleases this union and this parliament is no longer sustainable or desirable: the time has come to take serious and concrete decisions, for example by abolishing schengen altogether, which is not a secondary cause of the 'free movement' of terrorists.
the aim is to prevent such events from happening again at any cost and, above all, to prevent people from succumbing to the temptation of living in a climate of constant fear, giving up their values or changing their habits because of a threat that is perceived by european citizens as continuous and disabling.
‒ i believe that a european strategy for the prevention of radicalisation and the recruitment of european citizens is necessary and imminent, an objective which requires an analysis of the different vectors of radicalisation; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised services for the protection of the environment.
today's report proposes decisive measures to combat terrorism and radicalisation: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the benefits, including economic benefits, of advanced policies on health and safety at work have been well documented since the early 1990s: increased protection of workers' health and safety means a trend towards higher productivity and labour force participation, as well as greater sustainability of public welfare systems.
‒ today i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020. there are many reasons why we want to promote a safe and healthy working environment for all workers.
this is also because health and safety at work have a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises, as well as on the sustainability of social security systems.
i agree with the call for concrete measures to be developed to deal with this emergency and i have decided to vote in favour, as one of our priorities must be to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for all european workers.
the european union aims to prevent accidents at work and to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for all european workers.
risk and accident prevention is a strategy to protect a fundamental interest of society, given that it could have a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises, increase the sustainability of social security systems and enable people to work in good health until they reach the legal retirement age.
i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the european union must contribute to creating a working environment which puts people and their well-being at the centre.
no one, speaking of africa in this house, has mentioned the waste that has been made by the multinationals in these decades of postcolonialism on the assets, minerals and natural resources of africa, the primary cause of immigration.
in this climate, freedoms and human rights are being increasingly restricted and human rights issues are being seriously questioned.
i thank commissioner stylianides for his commitment and for the good news that we will be able to do so as early as next year: it is a good signal in the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) that we just approved in new york.
now, for us, supporting the peace process in afghanistan is the prerequisite for any sustainable solution and in this light we must work actively in the run-up to the ministerial conference on afghanistan to be held in brussels in 2016.
author of the book.
we believe that only a wto reinvigorated by the forthcoming negotiations can achieve the objectives of international trade that provides fair, inclusive and sustainable rules for globalisation, in the interests of european citizens, but also of the poorest countries in the global south.
this is why the wto system needs to be rethought so that it works well for all member countries, also in the light of the new challenges that global trade is also facing, such as climate change and sustainability.
the text calls on the eeas and the european commission to support the ecuadorian government in its efforts to develop and support effective environmental management both in general and in sensitive areas such as the amazon and the galapagos islands.
it will ensure the highest level of protection for citizens and the environment and the increase and diversification of trade and investment by both sides.
in this respect, however, it is of fundamental importance to define a transparent and binding roadmap for human, environmental and labour rights.
while i share the importance of the conclusion of this agreement, i also support the need to monitor environmental sustainability in the design and implementation of cooperation activities financed by the commission and to promote the exchange of good practice between the contracting parties in the field of corporate social responsibility.
ecuador has in recent years been committed to reducing poverty, from 37.5% to 22.5%, and has focused on improving social and environmental conditions.
this is what we hope for ecuador, which we want to include in the close links already existing with other south american countries, asking its government to establish a clear and transparent path on human, environmental and social rights as a condition for concluding the agreement, as was done with peru and colombia at the time of concluding the trade agreement in question.
for these reasons too, a new strategy for the protection and welfare of animals is needed, based on sustainable agriculture, which respects animals, the environment and, ultimately, people.
‒ animal welfare is closely linked to animal and public health and is also crucial to ensuring sustainability.
we should remember that this is a general matter, a horizontal matter, and as such it is as important as the provisions on agriculture, the environment or consumer protection.
the european union aims to achieve five concrete objectives by 2020 in the fields of innovation, employment, education, social inclusion and climate/energy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to simplify the procedure for the adoption of the directive on the protection of the environment by the member states.
action on the circular economy ties in closely with our energy and climate policies.
more and more evidence shows the wider benefits of the circular economy, including in lowering carbon dioxide emissions.
in a world where the population rises every day, with huge demands placed on land, water, food, feed, raw materials and energy, we cannot rely further on a ‘take, make, use and throw away’ approach.
the circular economy, as an agenda for change, is not only an environmental necessity, it is the only model that makes sense in the long term for our european economy.
we want to be more ambitious than in the past by going beyond waste, with measures covering the full life-cycle of products, from the design of a product and production processes – and of better-informed consumption choices – to modern waste management.
our action plan and revised waste proposals adopted today are mutually supportive measures that will contribute to making real progress on the ground.
while jyrki will shortly go into more detail on the wide range of actions we propose, let me say a word about our waste management proposals.
continuously advancing on waste management remains a priority.
waste is not managed as well as it could be.
from the total waste production in the eu, only a limited share, 36%, was effectively recycled.
to fundamentally improve waste management practices we need eu waste legislation.
efforts to close today’s implementation gaps will be supported by the eu cohesion policy, with eur 5.5 billion already available in the run-up to 2020. food waste is a particular priority area where we want rapid change.
in september we adopted the un sustainability development goals, including a target to halve food waste by 2030 at the retail and consumer level, and to reduce food losses along production and supply chains.
with that aim, we will develop a reliable method to quantify and understand food waste in order to act on it efficiently.
the package which we have proposed is more ambitious than the previous legislative package on waste.
the action plan will complement the two initial legislative proposals concerning waste.
we will broaden the scope of ecodesign from energy efficiency to resource efficiency.
today only 25% of plastic waste is recycled, whereas half goes to landfills, with economic and environmental consequences.
in addition to this, there will also be a revised regulation on fertilisers in order to recognise organic and waste-based fertilisers and to support bio-nutrition.
so by quickly implementing the proposals now, we can achieve both economic and environmental – but also societal – gains by transforming our linear economy to a circular market economy.
this is a proposal which vice-president timmermans had described as more ambitious and certainly is insofar as it is part of a circular economy package and if we were to assess it solely on the basis of waste targets, we would probably assess it differently.
perhaps we wanted to hear a little more about food waste, we have heard about it and perhaps we expected something more, but certainly the path will be useful in improving the proposal and in achieving a more balanced package which is what this parliament wanted.
on behalf of the s&d group: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-presidents, commissioner vella, you spoke, you said you would present the new proposal on the circular economy by the end of the year and we are here today to discuss it; you also said that you would put forward a proposal that would close the loop, as opposed to the withdrawal that focused only on the delivery of waste.
i think that is a good starting point, and on the other hand we can no longer afford to have 600 million tonnes of waste, which could be reused as raw materials and resources, thrown away in europe every year.
but it would be a mistake to consider the circular economy as just an environmental policy or, worse, a waste issue.
but there is one point where you have not kept your promise to the end: the commission has already made a number of proposals to reduce the recycling rate of municipal waste to 65%.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
clearly, we are not keen on targets, the problem is not one percentage point more or less, the problem, commissioners, is that with an ambitious roadmap like the one you have presented, to be credible, it must be supported by the definition of measurable objectives to be achieved that are equally ambitious and because, if we really want to move towards a circular economy, it is also with really ambitious targets that we can promote a system that reduces waste and focuses on efficiency, sustainability and recycling, and the reuse of products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, no reference to the elimination of incentives for fossil fuels; no reference to the removal of incentives for incineration and landfilling; no reuse target, a target on municipal waste recycling going from 70 to 65% in 2030, a target on packaging recycling going from 80 to 75% and a target on food waste going from 30% to no obligation.
we like the systems approach that overcomes the misguided logic of sectoral intervention, waste management, food waste, eco-design, re-engineering of production cycles, sustainable buildings, green procurement, these are big interconnected issues.
more ambitious targets for waste, binding deadlines on targets, a more decisive step forward on efficiency indicators, the gap on marine pollution needs to be filled, as well as the commitment to comply with the un decision to halve food waste by 2030, but we need certain deadlines and legislative commitments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commission representatives, to ensure sustainable growth in the union we must use the resources at our disposal in a smarter way.
the circular economy is a necessity for europe: we need to reduce co2 emissions, be more efficient in the supply of raw materials.
i welcome the commission's package to strengthen our global competitiveness by stimulating sustainable economic growth and job creation.
i therefore hope that this package will be a further step in the union's reindustrialisation strategy, endorsed by the commission, which aims to achieve the target of 20% of gross domestic product coming from manufacturing by 2020. our commitment to combating climate change cannot be separated from the central role that industry has and must continue to play in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we must find a fair compromise, which i always tried to achieve when i was commissioner, between environmental policy and industrial policy.
the third industrial revolution can only be a green industrial revolution, and it is obvious that the right compromises must be found, sector by sector, including the rubber sector, to promote industry and not harm the environment.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
i will therefore work with my colleagues to improve the commission's proposal in order to deliver a more ambitious circular economy package to european citizens, capable of achieving the objectives of the seventh environment action programme.
every year in the european union, about 100 million tonnes of food is wasted: this is an invaluable loss that occurs throughout the food supply chain and that has a heavy economic, environmental and social impact on the european economy every day.
the road map presented by the european commission on wednesday 2 december aims to facilitate the transition of the european economy from linear to circular and includes among its objectives the definition of smarter and more environmentally sustainable european standards on waste disposal and the fight against waste, including food, by facilitating the redistribution of safe and edible food to those who need it.
only in this way will the european union be able to meet the ecological and food challenges of the new millennium, while respecting the principle of safeguarding precious goods and resources, the waste of which is intolerable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the climate, health and social emergency we are living through calls for the clearest analysis: the european union is leading the cop21 in paris on remedies for environmental disaster, but political commitment is threatened by the systematic manipulation of legislation by european producers.
after the volkswagen scandal, i would like to be refuted by the commission on the fact that applying a conformity factor of 2.1 does not significantly weaken the euro 6 emission standard and does not undermine the reliability and effectiveness of conformity testing itself, allowing the production of vehicles emitting more than twice the amount of ozone oxide set by euro 6. if so, it would be a very negative symptom of the automobile industry's ability to delay the definition of a regulatory framework adequate to the ambitions of planetary needs for quality of life, health and climate protection.
i therefore agree with the priority given by the report to sustainable urban mobility, energy saving, climate protection and the need to give back space and infrastructure to citizens.
the fight for a sustainable economy has always been one of the top priorities of our delegation and transport is without doubt one of the areas where this battle must be fought.
at this time, with cop21 under way, it is important to reiterate the absolute need to stop the climate change race and the report voted on today goes exactly in that direction.
i am very sorry to hear that a colleague has ignored a problem that is plain to see: the lack of a european policy on the environment.
the companies which should be responsible for the electrification project of the park, which has been authorized by the congolese government, the democratic republic of congo, are belgian and british companies, so they are european companies, companies on which we should try to exert pressure or at least a modus operandi which is respectful of a place which is the greatest example of biodiversity, a park of 8,000 square meters, a park in which there are species to be protected, a park which is a heritage of humanity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
‒ environmental protection has always been a key issue and objective of european policies, which is why the modification of urban mobility models is more necessary and indispensable than ever, given the current climatic conditions and the urgency of action in this regard.
the high percentage of gas emissions, the damage to the health of citizens and the problems associated with road congestion are just a few examples of the catastrophic effects of excessive use of private cars powered by traditional fuels.
new forms of environmentally sustainable transport, incentives for public transport, and the adoption of electric mobility projects could certainly reduce the incidence of the above problems, improving the well-being of society and the citizen.
‒ i have spoken in favour of this report on sustainable urban mobility, a document that combines a holistic approach with real and concrete objectives.
the report has the advantage of focusing in a comprehensive way on the different aspects of this subject, including the sustainability of urban transport planning, the improvement of the quality of life of citizens, innovation and development.
it is good to note that mobility and sustainable urban planning represent a particularly favourable environment for the development of new investment and growth opportunities.
"we are facing a climate emergency" false.
co2 emissions are deliberately used to pollute the debate and policies on polluting emissions in the transport sector.
‒ after careful reflection and debate in the house, i voted in favour of the report on sustainable urban mobility, as i am convinced that an ambitious regulatory framework for sustainable urban mobility is urgently needed, because the global needs are ambitious in terms of quality of life, health and climate protection.
i must point out, however, that while the european union may once again be the protagonist at cop21 in paris of the necessary political commitment on the subject, there is evidence on many sides of the systematic manipulation of legislation by european manufacturers and the ability of the automobile industry to delay the union's climate and energy objectives and to improve energy efficiency.
i therefore agree with the report, considering as a priority the attention it pays to energy saving and climate protection, the need to give back space and infrastructure to all citizens and to improve accessibility, and to respect technological neutrality.
‒ the report aims to define a new model of urban mobility based on environmental, economic and social sustainability.
at present, the use of private cars running on traditional fuels is still predominant in urban mobility and urban transport is responsible for a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions.
it also calls for energy efficiency to be placed at the heart of urban mobility policies in conjunction with cop21 and for a legislative package on 'transport and climate' to be drawn up alongside it.
‒ sustainable mobility is becoming a major environmental policy issue because of its impact on air quality and the inevitable health impacts on citizens.
making our cities more liveable has been a challenge facing europe for some time now and presents considerable difficulties in reconciling the economic development of cities and the accessibility of their territory with the quality of life and environmental protection.
transport and climate are now inseparable, and i hope that the work of the cop 21, which is taking place in paris these days, will also address the issue of urban mobility, which is one of the major challenges of the coming years.
the report aims to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport, with the aim of meeting the challenges of our century: the protection of the climate, health and the environment.
on the eve of cop21, the european union, as well as member states and local authorities, must put energy efficiency at the heart of urban mobility policies.
the rapporteur also calls on the european commission to make the granting of urban mobility funding conditional on the implementation by local authorities of sustainable urban mobility plans.
the commission is also proposing to increase the number of projects in the area of sustainable urban mobility by 20% of eu funding.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because the possibility of sustainable urban mobility is a subject to which i am particularly attached.
i support the report because it aims to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport, with the aim of meeting the objectives of our century that i want to help achieve: the protection of the climate, health and the environment.
i feel called upon to contribute to the achievement of the objectives just listed, considering that we are facing a climate emergency; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat climate change, including the introduction of a new road safety directive, and the introduction of a new road safety directive.
‒ urban mobility is a priority for citizens today, as we all have to move around for various reasons on a daily basis and unfortunately the vehicle we use most often is the car, which offers the advantage of convenience but has a significant impact on the environment.
because of the excessive use of the automobile, we are facing a climate emergency.
since 1990, there has been a 30% increase in greenhouse gas emissions, which are highly harmful not only to the climate but also to human health.
i strongly believe that funding should be provided to local authorities to facilitate and encourage the implementation of sustainable local mobility plans, both in terms of people and goods.
that is why i voted in favour of this report, which aims to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport, with the aim of meeting the challenges of our century: the protection of the climate, health and the environment, and the well-being and safety of all.
‒ i voted in favour of mrs delli's report on sustainable urban mobility because i believe it is one of the greatest social and environmental challenges of our time.
the increase in the urban population raises a number of challenges not only to the quality of life but also to the sustainable development of the territory, and it is therefore necessary to provide for responsible and effective urban planning in good time.
at the opening of cop21, the heads of state and government of most countries of the world reiterated the importance of taking action to save our planet from environmental catastrophes.
in this context, cities can also play a leading role, calling for greater responsibility on the part of citizens and local administrators in reviewing territorial environmental policies aimed at reducing pollution, promoting alternative fuels and developing an environmentally friendly culture.
it is therefore essential to rethink the models of territorial development, starting first of all with sustainable public transport, which on the one hand reduces smog, noise pollution and road accidents and, on the other, undoubtedly improves the quality of life of citizens, especially those living in the most disadvantaged areas.
the naps and the rops must respond to the need for efficient and sustainable urban mobility.
this report aims to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
optimising urban transport networks, with a particular focus on sustainable mobility, would have a positive impact on the social and environmental issues affecting european centres.
the weakest social groups are also the most exposed to the risks of air pollution, which kills more than 400,000 people a year.
urban mobility, characterised by a preponderance of diesel vehicles and burdened by a massive use of private cars, is responsible for 25% of total emissions and 70% of those emitted in cities.
‒ mr delli's report proposes that the commission start drawing up a legislative package on 'transport and climate' as soon as possible, involving all stakeholders, in order to set binding targets for reducing gas emissions in the transport sector.
some of the targets in the text are to ban diesel by 2020, phase out petrol cars by 2030 and phase them out by 2050. i believe that the european union must set itself ambitious targets so that member states and regional and local authorities can jointly commit to reducing pollution and implementing a new model of sustainable urban mobility.
‒ i am pleased that today, just a few days after the start of cop21, we have the opportunity to discuss and vote on this document in the house: greater sustainability in urban mobility not only improves many aspects of our citizens' daily lives, but also allows us to focus our efforts on a healthier, less polluting environment that contributes to the climate goals that the world's great leaders have set for themselves, and that we ourselves hope will be realized.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on sustainable urban mobility and i congratulate mr virkkunen, the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, on the work he has done.
they agree to increase the efficiency of sustainable mobility and to strengthen the transport logistics network in urban areas.
member states and local authorities must work to implement sustainable urban mobility plans and ensure that european citizens have access to accessible, efficient and safe public transport.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on sustainable urban mobility because it is a priority for the socialist and democratic group.
it is a key element in promoting better economic and social conditions in cities, especially for the most disadvantaged sections of the population, without forgetting the positive effects that good management of urban mobility can have on the fight against climate change.
‒ i supported this report, which aims to redefine a new model of urban mobility based on environmental, economic and social sustainability.
urban transport is responsible for a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions, which have increased by 30% in the last 25 years.
the result is serious damage in terms of air pollution and damage to health, traffic congestion and safety for citizens.
it also calls for energy efficiency to be placed at the heart of urban mobility policies and for a legislative package on 'transport and climate'.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a gradual phase-out of fossil fuels is the only way to redefine a new model of urban mobility in order to improve environmental impact.
motor transport in cities is responsible for a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions, with a progressive increase of 30% over the last 25 years.
the total cost of traffic congestion is estimated at €80 billion for european cities alone, not counting the serious damage in terms of air pollution and health for citizens.
the document adopted incorporated the proposals of the m5s, such as reducing pollution through alternative methods such as teleworking or the use of green public transport, in order to optimise journeys to the workplace and travel in general.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's objectives and to monitor the implementation of the energy union's objectives and targets.
the commission fully agrees with these three elements, as already illustrated by the report on the state of the energy union adopted by the college a month ago and presented to this house by vice-president šefčovič, who has been encouraging and coordinating our action on this important priority for the european union.
first, the need to maintain the ambition levels of the energy union.
i have just returned from paris, where for the past two weeks the european union, with its allies, has led the negotiations to reach the most ambitious climate agreement in history.
that means we have to meet our target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% from 1990 levels; we have to achieve a renewable energy share of 27% and improve energy efficiency by 27% by 2030 with a view to 30%.
as far as renewable energy is concerned, we already have a 15% share in the european union, but we need to step up our efforts to make the 2030 target a reality.
and so we will have to tackle the review of the renewable energy directive scheduled for the second half of 2016. as regards energy efficiency, let me reiterate that the commission is already looking at how we could raise the target to 30%, as this draft report calls for.
the energy efficiency directive is also the worst implemented.
that is why, next year, i will be presenting a set of proposals related to energy efficiency in sectors such as heating and cooling, buildings and transport and industrial emissions.
furthermore, i believe that a transition to a low-carbon economy must be driven by innovation and the european strategic energy technology plan will be key.
and, moreover, the lack of interconnection is an impediment to ensuring the integration of renewable energies into our energy matrix and to achieving greater shares of competitiveness.
both 'litpollink' and 'nordbalt' will be key to ending the energy isolation of the baltic states.
and we have just adopted a second list of projects of common interest containing the most important interconnection priorities for the european union: 108 electricity projects that will enable 26 member states to reach the 10% interconnection target by 2020. but, returning to the draft report we are discussing today, i am particularly pleased with the ambition it shows in including the longer-term target of 15% by 2030. i announce that i will propose the creation of an expert group on energy infrastructure to monitor progress towards the 10% target and make proposals if the target is not reached, as well as advise the commission on how to reach the 15% target.
strengthening the role of acer and promoting closer regional cooperation, as the draft report indicates, will be key features of the market design proposals, and that will be of key importance for energy security.
secondly, i would stress that the commission will only support projects which are in line with the objectives of the energy union, including energy security.
the state of the energy union made it clear that the energy union can only work if it is based on a reliable and transparent process anchored in legislation.
of course, alongside this we need a robust governance process, as underlined in the draft report on the energy union.
that is why next year we will propose an initiative on simplifying planning and reporting so that, after 2020, member states develop an integrated national energy and climate plan; that the monitoring system is based on a report on progress made by member states; and that the commission assesses collective progress in an annual comprehensive state of the european union.
we will ensure that the energy union remains an ambitious, responsible and measurable project.
the next year will be decisive because of the large number of concrete initiatives included in the legislative programme for 2016. i will work with this parliament to make the energy union a reality.
this parliament has its say on the energy union, the most ambitious strategy for the integration of europe's energy markets since that first bold and in some ways visionary draft: the european coal and steel community.
well, more than 60 years later, the context and the world have changed a lot, but the theme remains the same: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy policy and the energy efficiency of the member states, in particular by ensuring that the energy security of the member states is a factor of stability, competitiveness and growth in their territories, with an additional challenge, the crucial challenge of climate change and sustainable development.
so it is in this spirit that we are voting, after weeks and months of negotiations, on the basis of a solid text to which almost all the groups have contributed and which puts this house back at the centre of the debate on the future of the energy union.
these are the two points which i think are most important: the second point is the call for strong governance, with full ownership of parliament within the ordinary legislative procedure and for the indispensable objectives which we socialists and democrats, together with others, want to be even more ambitious in terms of efficiency so that the energy transition is bold and socially sustainable.
so parliament is back on the field, ready to make its voice heard in the busy process of building the energy union, with the commitment shown in recent months by the commission in bringing the energy union through step by step and the obstinacy of this house in seeking broad consensus on the basic objectives, as conditions for important achievements, towards a single, harmonious and fair european energy area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are certainly many points of agreement in this report, but while europe is still debating non-binding and unambitious targets, morocco, according to the financial times, is already close to reaching 42% of renewable energy in 2020, more than twice the european union's target, and has set itself the target of 50% by 2030. the union should also take lessons from uruguay, which already reached 94% renewables in 2015 with a legislative framework that gave certainty to investors.
the report we are voting on tomorrow contains a particularly scandalous sentence: 'nuclear energy should be supported in any form by eu funding mechanisms or eu financial institutions'.
in britain, the hinkley point nuclear power station will perhaps be built only because the government will pay for 27 years for energy at twice the market price.
as far as hydroelectric power is concerned, we are now, in many parts of europe, saturated with what is sustainable in terms of the protection of the natural environment.
we must remember that hydroelectric power can still have problems as a result of climate change, which in any case puts the supply of hydroelectric basins at risk.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is absolutely necessary to create a sustainable energy environment, not only to ensure energy security, naturally by trying to reduce prices, but above all to achieve the climate objectives, such as, for example, respecting the global average temperature increase of less than two degrees, agreed at the paris summit.
energy security also means diversifying supply, thus reducing dependence on fossil fuels such as oil, gas and coal, and focusing on renewable energy.
we must work to make the energy union a real engine of growth and investment, especially in green energy, jobs and competitiveness, investing, as i said before, also in renewable technologies, clean transport, smart homes and new production methods; the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
so to actually achieve a green economy, an economy that is in all respects sustainable, with positive repercussions not only on energy savings, and therefore from an economic point of view, but also on the reduction of the greenhouse effect.
it will therefore also be necessary to review the energy label, because we must give consumers a clear and precise idea of what the information and savings for the citizens will actually be.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is coming out of the historic agreement reached at the paris conference on climate change strengthened.
in addition to laying the foundations for saving the planet, it is a strength of the european union as a whole and a sure path towards a robust and stable european energy union, which is therefore the real institutional and political challenge.
it is well known that the current existence of economic, regulatory and administrative barriers to energy consumption does not protect but rather exacerbates energy poverty.
i therefore agree with the report and emphasize the key role of the issues of emissions trading, the necessary introduction of real driving emissions testing, the decarbonisation of the air, sea and land transport sector which is still excluded from binding commitments, the reintroduction of waste into the economy as a raw material for a true circular economy and the achievement of the 10% electricity interconnection target and the improvement of the functioning of the internal electricity market in the european union.
all of these are key to achieving a secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive energy union.
we have to show that we are applying the precautionary principle in a way that really protects the health of citizens and the environment.
the microfinance instrument must therefore be strengthened, also by simplifying it with an information and mentoring strategy capable of broadening the audience, but also of assessing its sustainability and employability.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cop21 has come to an end and the big missing from the debate is agriculture, food and the link with climate policies.
the link between industrial agriculture and climate change is two-fold.
on the one hand, industrial food production is massive, it relies on fossil fuels for its existence; on the other hand, monocultures on 80 percent of the total arable land are poorly adapted to climate change, putting the entire food supply at risk.
if we are to tackle the urgent problem of climate change, the european union must also abandon the concept of technological neutrality and take decisive action to promote those production, distribution and consumption models that can reverse the trend, by adopting agroecological practices.
problem agriculture could become part of the solution to climate change with the potential to absorb 40 percent of current emissions.
however, since we will not be able to count on several supportive factors, such as low oil prices and a very accommodative monetary policy, forever, we need to ensure that the recovery becomes self-sustained, in particular given the weaker external environment.
therefore it is essential that policy agendas remain focused on investment, structural reforms and, obviously, sustainable and growth-friendly fiscal policies.
this is needed to improve competitiveness, in particular by unlocking the euro area’s productive capacity, and thereby fostering higher sustainable and inclusive growth.
this is what we have been focusing our minds and energy on and what we should remain focused on.
‒ it is important for the union to intensify political dialogue within the framework of the cotonou agreement, in order to strengthen not only economic relations but also dialogue on environmental issues and climate change, a topic which is now at the heart of european and international debate.
although its economy is relatively small compared to other caribbean countries and is mainly based on agriculture, saint lucia is working to create an environment conducive to investment, private sector development and tourism.
‒ i am in favour of the council's proposal to amend regulation no 605/2014 on euratom (european atomic energy community) and believe that effective rules should be established to ensure that member states pay their contributions to the union budget on time, in order to enable the commission to manage the overall budget effectively.
following the closure of the negotiations, a compromise was reached on the legislative proposal amending the community trade mark regulation 207/2009 on 25 april 2015. the compromise provides: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
i voted in favour because the measures will ensure better longterm conservation and optimum use of fishery resources in the north-east atlantic area, producing lasting environmental and social benefits.
the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the union is a contracting party, is intended to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fishery resources in the north-east atlantic area, with lasting environmental and social benefits.
the ep also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative acts in the field of the environment, and to adopt a directive on the protection of the environment.
i also want to help ensure that the environmental and social benefits are sustainable by voting in favour.
i have decided to support this proposal because the measures that will be taken will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of marine resources in the north-east atlantic area, producing lasting results also in environmental and social terms.
i am voting in favour of the report, and i hope that it will produce lasting results in environmental and social terms.
this will ensure better conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, producing lasting environmental and social outcomes.
the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries aims to ensure the optimum use of the north-east atlantic fisheries resources, producing lasting environmental and social benefits.
‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a contracting party, is designed to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of the north-east atlantic fisheries resources, producing lasting environmental benefits.
the measures provided for in this amendment will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, producing lasting environmental and social benefits.
it will also ensure the optimum use of the north-east atlantic fisheries resources, producing lasting environmental and social benefits.
‒ i believe that an agreement such as the one we are discussing is of fundamental importance, especially in order to protect the environment, a highly topical issue which is also reflected in the final document of cop21 drawn up a few days ago.
i voted in favour of this report because the main amendment, 9/2014, concerns the alignment of the regime with the fao (food and agriculture organization) agreement on port state competence measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, approved by the eu in 2011. those measures will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, producing lasting environmental and social outcomes.
the proposal is in line with the model of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in accordance with the objectives of the common european fisheries policy.
‒ in recent years, member states have been working together to establish a european energy union, with the aim of creating an environmentally friendly electricity grid.
at the other extreme are those who consider the environmental and public health externalities of the use of highly polluting and harmful materials by industry to be negligible.
on the other hand, those who consider environmental policy, energy policy and industrial policy to be inseparable, arguing for example for the need to make more intensive use of the circular economy.
i voted against because i believe in the need to reduce the costs of industry and its use of polluting materials in the name of protecting the environment.
‒ the fight against climate change, the subject of the recent united nations conference in paris, is one of the key issues for the near future.
the european union's action must be directed towards strengthening international choices, towards an energy transaction based on the progressive abandonment of fossil fuels.
my vote in favour of the gróbarczyk report is motivated by the conviction that energy policy choices are crucial to supporting the eu's long-term competitiveness and reducing its energy dependence on exporting countries.
the aim must be a new energy model for europe based on demand reduction, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
we must work towards a genuine eu external energy policy, focusing on the transparency of future agreements with third countries and security of supply.
the stability of the new energy system will necessarily depend on the involvement of businesses and citizens, including through the creation of new investment opportunities in energy.
‒ this report is decidedly biased and calls on the member states to give up their energy sovereignty in favour of a european centralism which has not only always proved inefficient but has always been very disadvantageous for our territories and our citizens.
‒ in the light of recent international developments and the objectives agreed in paris at cop21, the transition to an energy union based on security of energy supply, on an increasingly integrated and sustainable energy market, remains one of the european union's highest priorities.
i very much welcome the report voted on today, which represents an important step towards building an increasingly secure and resilient european energy system, based on ambitious targets aimed at the fundamental shift towards a new energy model, based on the progressive decarbonisation of the economy.
consistent with the socioeconomic and environmental challenges we face, increasing energy integration at home, coupled with increasing efficiency in the use of resources, is the key to reducing the union's over-reliance on supplies from third countries, while also bringing us into line with the principle of diversification of energy sources, which is also of paramount importance to ensure our security and competitiveness in this area.
‒ the development of renewable energy sources is crucial to making the eu's energy independence a reality.
the union and its member states currently import more than half of all the energy they consume: excessive dependence on imports is found in crude oil (over 90%), natural gas (66%) and coal (72%).
the reduction of the union's energy demand and the development of renewable energy are essential elements for achieving energy independence and for meeting the targets set by cop21 in paris.
the energy union is designed to take away the last remaining strategic sovereignty of the member states: the freedom to determine the energy mix, as enshrined in article 194 tfeu.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on progress towards a european energy union 2015/2113 (ini), as i see the european energy union as the next institutional and political challenge.
the european union is indeed strengthened by the conclusion of the historic agreement at the conference on climate change (cop 21), but we all know the cost of non-europe and the current existence of economic, regulatory and administrative barriers to energy consumption, which do not protect but rather exacerbate energy poverty.
i therefore agree with the report and stress the importance of achieving the right balance between the objectives set out and a resilient and secure ecosystem, emphasising the key role of the following themes: the trading of emission allowances (ets); the necessary introduction of real driving emissions testing; the decarbonisation of the transport, maritime and land-based aircraft sectors, which are still excluded from binding commitments; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the recycling of waste.
the draft report deals with several aspects of the european energy strategy.
particular attention is paid to energy security issues, such as the need to diversify energy sources and supply routes and the initiatives needed to complete the internal energy market.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal on what the eu's energy plan should be for the next few decades.
the report cites the commission's draft which i fully support in the ambition of 'a framework strategy for a resilient energy union'.
the common objective of the whole union must, in my view, be to develop energy strategies in the light of the long-term objective of achieving a reduction of greenhouse gases of 80-95% by 2050, and before that a reduction of 40% by 2030. i think that the european reference point on these issues should be energy security and each member state, on the basis of its own potential, environment, knowledge and costs and economic needs, should commit itself to achieving the objectives.
i voted for this report because i am in favour of creating a sustainable energy environment, in terms of energy security, naturally trying to reduce prices, and to achieve climate objectives.
i believe that the energy union must become a driver of growth and investment, especially for the revision of the energy label, because we must give consumers a clear, precise idea of what the information and savings for citizens will actually be.
‒ the gróbarczyk report is part of the juncker commission's energy union macro-initiative.
the report presents diametrically opposed views, which see on the one hand the forces that deny climate change, fossil fuel generation, including highly polluting (coal) and unconventional (shale gas, oil from oil sands), support the large extractive and generation industry.
at the other extreme are those who consider energy policy to be inseparable from the fight against climate change, who aim to reduce the impact of energy costs through the circular economy, who see renewable energy as the main objective for the energy transition, who are against nuclear fission and who favour energy efficiency as the first source, demand reduction, decentralised production and self-consumption.
the rapporteur did not hesitate to use procedural instruments (for example, a series of concatenated splits which completely reversed the meaning of one of our amendments on nuclear energy) which were very close to being incorrect, and which were deeply bitterly experienced by various political groups.
‒ the energy union will have numerous benefits both economically and sustainably across the eu.
as regards energy security, it will make the eu less dependent on external sources and may make energy agreements more transparent; it will also help create new jobs, make european industries, transport systems and the construction sector more sustainable and decarbonised.
finally, it will reduce household energy costs.
in the resolution, which i voted for, parliament supports the commission in taking measures to achieve the energy union through adequate investment in strategic infrastructure and the promotion of innovation and modernisation; strengthening regional cooperation and in particular mediterranean cooperation; promoting and disseminating best practice at local level and enhancing policy coordination across the eu.
today, more than 60 years later, in a changed context, the need to complete an energy union also remains.
i am convinced that the report we have adopted is an important step towards a european energy union, because it sets out ambitious measures to achieve greater energy savings and efficiency, the development of renewable energies and, above all, the need for strategic coordination at european level to diversify energy sources and their supply routes.
on this last point in particular, i agree with the position expressed in the text and express concern about the proposal to double the capacity of the nordstream pipeline: a unilateral decision that could have detrimental effects on the energy security of the union.
the achievement of a single, harmonious and more secure european energy area must pass through shared and coordinated energy choices and policies at european level.
only in this way will it be possible to guarantee a future of greater stability and energy independence for the citizens of europe.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
the amendments to the text of the report, as presented, contain a set of strongly contrasting positions, ranging from financial support for nuclear and non-conventional energy shale gas to the absence of a position on decarbonisation, to the circular economy which has decarbonisation and renewable energy as objectives for a real energy transition.
unfortunately, it has not been possible to influence the text in such a way as to limit or cancel the financing of nuclear and non-conventional energy.
‒ i am voting against the report which would create the energy union.
in short, the aim is to take away the last remaining strategic sovereignty of the member states, namely the freedom to determine their energy mix.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on energy security.
this is just one of the reasons why i have been very enthusiastic about the excellent work done by mr flavio zanonato, the shadow rapporteur for the s&d group on the report on progress towards a european energy union, which i support, although i reserve the right to reject the pro-nuclear remarks on the basis of my own deeply held convictions.
security, integration of the european energy market, decarbonisation, research and competitiveness are ambitious but indispensable objectives for a responsible, sustainable, free and forward-looking growth of europe.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on progress towards a european energy union because european energy security defends both europe's security and the sovereignty of its countries and brings about important improvements in terms of efficiency.
the eu is also heavily dependent on energy imports from russia, a very unreliable partner that uses its energy sources as a political weapon.
it is therefore essential to create a system that protects europe's energy industries from unfair imports from third countries and develops a single market in order to reduce overall costs and improve the competitiveness of the eu economy.
i also fully shared the vision of an energy exchange system between the european union and the united states, following developments and good research, with the aim of creating a global renewable energy sharing network.
‒ the european union's energy policy aims to promote and ensure the functioning of the energy market, the security of energy supply, energy saving, energy efficiency, the development of renewable energies, and to strengthen the interconnection of energy networks.
it is therefore necessary to ensure a stable regulatory framework aimed at building an energy union to deliver on energy and climate objectives, ensuring a level playing field between european energy producers and third countries, including the widespread application of a revised emission trading system (ets).
‒ this report, which i support, is a response to the commission communication on the creation of a european energy union.
the draft report focuses on the various important aspects of energy security, including the need to diversify energy sources and supply patterns, and on the initiatives needed to complete the internal energy market.
‒ my role as mep member of the envi and itre committees always pushes me to be active and reflective on energy issues.
i am more than ever now keen to defend the importance of sustainable energy for the protection of the environment and to support all possible investment in this area.
‒ europe is facing increasing energy demand, high prices, supply problems and at the same time must reduce the environmental impact of the energy sector.
that is why we need a clear energy strategy for the european union.
the commission, by presenting plans for a european energy union, aims to ensure that citizens and businesses have access to safe, affordable and environmentally friendly energy.
the climate and energy targets set by the eu executive will seek to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, obtain some of the energy from renewable sources and improve energy efficiency.
i am therefore aware of the enormous importance of the energy sector and the realisation of an ambitious european strategy, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report and i hope that all the member states will contribute to the achievement of the objectives set out in it.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the european energy union, as i believe it is essential to develop and ensure the functioning of the energy market at european level.
member states should work towards the creation of an integrated internal energy market, both in terms of regulation and interconnections; increase security of supply both through diversification of supply, for example by exploiting recent discoveries in the mediterranean basin, and through the development of inland sources; ensure energy efficiency and promote the development of renewables by integrating them into the market in a balanced way.
a true energy union is the basis for european growth and reindustrialisation.
‒ we voted against the report, even though it contains many positive elements on renewable energy and energy efficiency that stem largely from our work in the itre committee: in particular, for the first time, the concept that investment in energy efficiency is as important as investment in energy infrastructure is being accepted.
the report calls for the hidden and externalized costs of energy to be calculated during impact assessments (the hidden costs of nuclear and fossil fuels are very high; those of renewables are virtually non-existent) and reiterates the binding 2030 targets of the european parliament on emissions, energy efficiency and renewables, while the eu council is content with non-binding and low-profile targets.
the eu's energy security is wrongly conflated with the building of infrastructure to import fossil fuels, whereas it would only be achieved if the eu could produce most of the energy it needs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
‒ ensuring a coherent and coherent response to energy security and climate change is our first objective, which is why i welcome the commission's initiative on the energy union.
the european parliament, by its vote, has shown its consistency, reiterating the need to set binding environmental protection targets, also thanks to the boost given by cop21 in paris, and reaffirming the urgency of greater investment in low-carbon infrastructure and new technologies.
the european energy and climate strategies must continue to be complementary and must therefore be combined with innovation and research for the benefit of consumers and businesses.
‒ the european parliament today approved the report 'towards an energy union', which i followed as shadow rapporteur for the s&d group.
i find the consolidated budget to be truly balanced where it focuses decisively on renewable sources and energy efficiency, relaunches the commitment to a fully integrated market while paying particular attention to carbon leakage and ensuring competitive and uniform prices in all member states.
i particularly share the condemnation of the doubling of the nord stream gas pipeline, a project which seriously jeopardises the security of europe's energy supplies and isolates ukraine from the european gas distribution network.
the report is strongly pro-nuclear, but with considerable effort, we in the five star movement have succeeded in getting the final text to include more ambitious european targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the european parliament also deleted from the document, thanks to an amendment by the five star movement, the part of the text which provided eu funding for nuclear energy.
it is, however, an important policy document which will have an impact on the eu's energy choices and which affirms the will of the european parliament.
the text argues that renewable, fossil and nuclear sources should be considered and promoted in the same way under the concept of 'technological neutrality'.
again, the problem of energy security and independence is solved by promoting the construction of large-scale infrastructure, such as gas pipelines, so that the eu is able to import fossil fuels from as many suppliers as possible.
‒ the creation of an intensive electrification system for the industrial sector is essential and indispensable for a complete energy transition.
the report focuses on the enormous potential of renewable energy and its undeniable benefits, but notes that the results achieved to date are conditioned by a strong disconnect in the organisational network.
‒ achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target is an important milestone for the broader european energy markets union project.
the achievement of the energy union requires efficient and solidarity-based instruments, and better interconnection responds to the need to ensure the achievement of those common objectives from which we all benefit, a stronger and more resilient network.
the interest in eliminating the various energy islands (poland, great britain, the iberian peninsula) is moving in this direction.
‒ in october 2014, the council unanimously set a target of 10% cross-border electricity grid interconnectivity by 2020 (and 15% by 2030), in order to complete the internal energy market and improve energy security in the eu.
it should be said that the lack of interconnectivity really only concerns certain member states (basically the usual ones: the energy islands) to which priority will be given.
despite the vote in favour, it is worth pointing out two concerns first: 1) the interconnectivity objective is seen as a pro-rhythm to the achievement of the energy union, which we oppose at its root (see the gróbarczyk report); 2) in general, eu energy policy is 'polluted' by climate policy: the model of 'energy austerity' pursued is an obstacle to reindustrialisation and hence to prospects for economic growth, but with zero environmental impact (in absolute terms, global co2 emissions will not decrease, whether or not co2 is a problem).
‒ today i voted in favour of the report on 'achieving 10% electricity interconnection - a european electricity grid ready for 2020', as i consider it strategic to achieve the 10% electricity interconnection target and to improve the functioning of the internal electricity market in the eu; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's objectives and to monitor the implementation of the energy union's objectives.
‒ the proper functioning of the internal energy market also depends on the interconnections that guarantee electricity security within the union, especially in crossborder areas most exposed to energy crises.
having an interconnected network in europe is essential, as it allows for secure, sustainable and lower-cost energy.
in 2002, the union set itself the target of achieving 10% energy interconnection by 2020: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
these are mostly countries that are more isolated from the single energy market.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to prepare a common european electricity grid by 2020. i am very close to the environmental and energy issues, and i am in favour of an optimized european energy system with renewable energies, greater energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix leading to energy savings, and an internal energy market which allows energy to circulate freely.
these conditions are important for the achievement of a stable and secure energy system.
in particular, i believe that electricity interconnection is one of the key prerequisites for completing an integrated internal eu electricity market which, if well defined, will contribute to achieving the climate objectives that i particularly care about; in particular, it is a strategic principle that should lead to a more resilient and robust network, better able to respond to all forms of disruption and change.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is important for the proper functioning of the internal energy market to improve electricity interconnection, by eliminating bottlenecks in the grid, building new transmission lines and developing new local smart grids.
‒ the eriksson report gives an opinion on the achievement of the 10% minimum target for electricity interconnections proposed by the committee and seeks to form a position on this by placing it within the main axes of the european union's energy and infrastructure policy.
the project of intensive electrification of our industrial system is essential for the energy transition, therefore for the fight against climate change and towards energy independence.
the essential problem with such a general policy objective, 'one size fits all', is that while it points in the right direction, it does not take into account the territorial, geographical, energy diversity of the member states.
this report, which focuses on the commission communication 'achieving 10% electricity interconnection - a grid ready for 2020' is one of the main axes of the european union's energy and infrastructure policy.
creating the optimal conditions to be able to fully electrify our industrial system is a key element towards the energy transition, decarbonisation and the fight against climate change.
interconnection therefore appears to be crucial to allowing technological evolution and infrastructure choices that must create the conditions for the full exploitation of energy from renewable sources.
however, interconnection projects must take account of spatial and geographical variables characterising the member states and should, in the selection of projects, have an approach which respects the sensitivities of the inhabitants of the places involved, as well as taking into account the results of environmental impact assessments.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because improving electricity interconnections will help to increase the security of energy supply and strengthen the internal market.
it should be noted that the lack of interconnectivity is really limited to certain member states (essentially the usual ones: the energy islands), to which priority will be given.
‒ improving interconnections is a fundamental and indispensable step towards greater energy security and lower energy prices for european businesses and citizens.
this is an essential element of the energy union, which we expect to make a major contribution to the economy and employment.
i have welcomed this own-initiative report, which in a complementary way to the energy union strategy recognises that electricity interconnection is one of the key prerequisites for completing an internal electricity market in the eu.
the text we voted for sets an ambitious target, which will help to achieve important climate commitments, including the eu's commitment to become a leader in renewable energy, to improve the eu's geopolitical position by increasing energy security and independence, and to reduce energy isolation and the potential for disruption to energy systems.
the 10% interconnection target, to be achieved by 2020, is a further step towards completing the internal energy market.
electricity interconnection is one of the key prerequisites for completing an integrated internal market for electricity in the eu in order to achieve the long-term climate and energy isolation reduction objectives pursued by the eu.
renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and an internal energy market are therefore important means of achieving a stable, secure and competitive energy system in the eu.
‒ energy infrastructure is one of the priorities of the european energy agenda.
an interconnected european energy network is essential to ensure europe's energy security, to strengthen competition in the internal market, thereby making prices more competitive, and to help achieve the objectives that the european union has committed itself to achieve in terms of decarbonisation and climate policy.
this communication examines how to achieve the 10% target for electricity interconnections by 2020. the objectives on which the text focuses are: improvement of the situation in the 12 member states with a level of interconnection of less than 10% (ireland, italy, romania, portugal, estonia, latvia, lithuania, united kingdom, spain, poland, cyprus and malta); projects under the trans-european energy networks (ten-e) regulation and the connecting europe facility (cef) which will contribute to the achievement of the interconnection objective; financial instruments to support electricity interconnection projects; modalities for strengthening regional cooperation.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the achievement of the 10% electricity interconnection target in order to complete the path taken by the european union to create and develop an internal energy market.
the creation of a european electronic network by 2020 will make it possible to achieve a competitive, efficient and secure energy system.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on electricity interconnection and the achievement of a european electricity grid by 2020. since 2002, the union has been committed to the achievement of a stable, independent, inclusive and transparent internal market in electricity in order to ensure security of supply, the use of renewable sources and the competitiveness of the electricity industry for the benefit of european citizens.
a fully integrated internal market will facilitate trade and services in electricity by reducing price volatility, create jobs in a sustainable economy through investment in the best technologies, and help reduce energy dependency and isolation.
‒ electricity interconnections between member states are an essential project for europe's energy transition and the fight against climate change.
an interconnected electricity grid that is open to technological evolution is essential to mitigate and compensate for the structural discontinuities of renewable energy.
without this structure, we cannot fully exploit the potential of renewable energy.
for us, 5 stars is a goal that is moving in the right direction, and that is why we voted in favour of it, even though it is a percentage that does not take into account the territorial, geographical and energy characteristics of the member states.
‒ technical measures and multiannual plans are the most appropriate instruments for achieving the objective of maximum sustainable yield in the common fisheries policy.
the aim of these measures is to avoid catching juvenile fish and other incidental catches which could cause damage to the marine environment.
i voted in favour because i consider the protection of the marine environment and heritage to be a priority for european policies.
in particular, we call for a sound scientific approach to improve conservation and sustainable exploitation of resources, we intend to minimise the impact on the marine environment, to fight against iuu fishing, to ensure support for fishermen, in particular for traditional and small-scale sustainable fishing practices, through training, innovation and research tools, and by involving all stakeholders in the decision-making process.
finally, i believe that technical measures should be reviewed in order to improve selectivity, minimise discards and the impact of fishing on the environment, and modernise control and fishing techniques through the sustainable use of innovative fishing gear.
the objective of technical measures is to avoid bycatch and impacts on the marine environment.
these include references to the importance of simplifying and regionalising technical measures which must always be consistent with the real objective of the technical measures regulation, namely to minimise incidental catches and impacts on the marine environment; the need for specific measures to improve selectivity and minimise bycatch by highlighting the problem of bycatch of cetaceans; the importance of the review of technical measures being carried out in accordance with the best available scientific advice and an ecosystem-based approach.
the objectives of the 2013 cfp reform included achieving the maximum sustainable yield (msy) by applying an ecosystem-based approach.
the objective of technical measures is to avoid bycatch and impacts on the marine environment.
the following were adopted in committee and incorporated in the final text by amendments: the importance of simplification and regionalisation of technical measures which must always be consistent with the real objective of the technical measures regulation; consistency with the objectives of the cfp and the marine strategy framework directive 2008/56/ec; the need for specific measures to improve selectivity and minimise bycatch by highlighting the problem of bycatch of cetaceans; the importance of the review of technical measures being carried out in accordance with the best available scientific advice and the ecosystem-based approach.
i therefore supported this report because of its positive characteristics of supporting and reviving the sector, and also because through new fishing techniques, which are based on increasingly innovative methods, it will contribute to reducing the impact on the environment.
‒ the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) aimed to achieve maximum sustainable yield (msy) by applying an ecosystem-based approach.
‒ technical measures and multiannual plans are essential tools to ensure the conservation and sustainable management of fish stocks and marine ecosystems.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, allow me first of all to apologize to the luxembourg minister for the environment, mrs dieschbourg, who would have liked to be with you, but is already in brussels for the preparations of tomorrow's environment council.
ladies and gentlemen, even three days after the end of the cop 21 which i had the good fortune to attend, with our minister of the environment, i am still struggling to fully realize the miracle of paris.
this is the first time we've adopted a universal climate agreement that contains the architecture needed to keep global warming well below 2 degrees celsius and in which every country in the world is committed to doing their part.
such an agreement is the result of an unprecedented political commitment to tackle the challenge of climate change.
throughout the year, it has pushed the climate agenda through all the chambers, and with great patience, impeccable impartiality and great control of the situation during the cop, it has succeeded in presenting an agreement which not only has consensus but is also ambitious, sustainable, dynamic and legally binding.
i take this opportunity to thank the european parliament for its own commitment and support in this matter, calling for an ambitious agreement to phase out global co2 emissions by 2050 or shortly thereafter.
first, it was decided in paris that global warming must be kept well below 2 degrees and that we must strive to limit it to 1.5 degrees.
the paris agreement specifies that this implies that peak emissions must occur as soon as possible and that climate neutrality must be achieved in the second half of this century.
it is the first global climate agreement and sends a very strong signal to all non-governmental actors, whether local authorities, businesses or civil society, whose growing commitment i welcome - a signal that this transition to a low-carbon economy is becoming a must.
thanks, to a great extent, to the efforts of the european union, the world has its first ever universal, legally binding global climate deal.
this is a new chapter in global climate governance as we move from action by few to action by all.
the paris agreement is important on many levels: first of all, in order to be efficient in our fight against climate change.
paris is the culmination of europe’s efforts for a global agreement on climate change.
when i came to this house last october on the occasion of the debate on the pargneaux report, i made it clear that paris had to deliver an ambitious, robust and legally binding global agreement which puts the world on track to limit global warming to below 2°c.
for the first time ever in a legal agreement, we reaffirmed our long-term goal to prevent the adverse effects of climate change.
the qualitative long-term goal aims for emissions to peak as soon as possible, with rapid reductions thereafter, towards achieving a balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources and removal by sinks of greenhouse gases in the second half of the century.
the agreement sends a clear signal to investors, businesses and policy makers that the global transition to clean energy is here to stay.
an enhanced transparency and accountability system is also set up, including the submission by all countries, every two years, of greenhouse gas inventories, an expert review and a facilitative, multilateral consideration of progress.
the european parliament has consistently recognised climate finance as a key issue in these negotiations.
i am proud that the paris agreement includes a solidarity package which contains provisions on climate finance and on addressing needs linked to adaptation and to loss and damage.
so, in addition to all countries taking on commitments to reduce emissions, there is also no longer a strict division between developed and developing countries with regard to the provision of public finance.
the commission will also continue its work to implement the 2030 climate and energy framework.
following this summer’s legislative proposal for the revision of the european union emissions trading system for the post-2020 period, the next step is to address the sectors not covered by the ets.
also, our upcoming energy proposals – for renewables, market design and energy efficiency – will play an important role in making the energy market cleaner and more efficient.
our wider climate diplomacy efforts will not stop.
today, as president fabius also said, this agreement serves a great cause, in addition to the environmental one.
we get there by peaking emissions "as soon as possible", the earliest possible, which is a formula that says nothing, could be in ten years or in twenty years or in thirty years and yet we read that the word decarbonisation disappears.
a lot of people talk about a carbon-free market.
the word decarbonisation has disappeared and we are talking about balancing anthropogenic emissions and removing greenhouse gases, that is, we are relying on a technology that we do not yet know well, that is far from coming because we cannot admit the guilt that we are not able at the moment to stop our carbon emissions.
we want to get away from coal-fired and fossil-fuel-fired energy and get there with green energy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have called this agreement a historic agreement, we have called it an ambitious agreement, and i would just like to point out that dependence on fossil fuels in the world energy system has produced 84% of greenhouse gas emissions.
so if we really want to save the planet, we have to first of all abolish all those fossil subsidies that are drugging the energy market and preventing a real transition to renewables.
australia, canada, france, germany, japan, the united kingdom, the united states and italy all subsidize oil, gas and coal at the expense of their citizens; 80 billion euros every year, while their commitment to the green climate fund is only 2 billion dollars a year.
the european union is responsible for only 10% of emissions, but as the world's leading power it can do much, much more.
europe is a trading power, a market of producers and consumers, which sets laws and standards, can influence trade agreements, with strict environmental standards.
in short, it can take the new model that builds competitiveness and sustainability together on the road to energy transition.
the undisciplined countries - we are discussing the possible recognition of china's market economy status - the undisciplined countries are being put in a position to accept this discipline, so that our industrial and labour tradition is safeguarded in addition to the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the paris agreement sends a clear signal: the fossil fuel era is coming to an end and the development of our society will have to be based on renewable sources and energy efficiency.
this is even more impressive when you consider that in previous climate agreements only developed countries committed to reducing emissions.
i think the final agreement at the cop21 climate conference is a good agreement and a good starting point, especially because for the first time the agreement was signed unanimously by all 195 countries present, including the united states, india and china, the three largest emitters of co2 in the world, who sat together at the same table admitting that there is a global problem.
we therefore hope that this role will reinforce china's political and social responsibility to make an effective and positive contribution to the world's détente, to the resolution of crises, wars and conflicts, to the great challenges of migration and sustainability and security.
it is a city bringing together continents, cultures and religions and it should become a symbol of bringing together humanitarian, political, development and environmental actors to better serve people in humanitarian crises.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the world humanitarian summit follows in the footsteps of other important summits, such as cop21 in paris, the new york conference on the sustainable development goals, and the addis ababa summit on financing for development.
in 2011, the presidents of the three authorities were appointed for a five-year term, renewable once.
in 2011, the presidents of the three authorities were appointed for a five-year term, renewable once.
in 2011, the presidents of the three authorities were appointed for a five-year term, renewable once.
in 2011, the presidents of the three authorities were appointed for a five-year term, renewable once.
in 2011, the presidents of the three authorities were appointed for a five-year term, renewable once.
in 2011, the presidents of the three authorities were appointed for a five-year term, renewable once.
‒ i voted in favour of rejecting the list of invasive alien species proposed by the commission, which not only does not include the most invasive and problematic species, but instead includes species that would cause no harm to the biodiversity of our territories, human health or the economy.
the first list of the commission has been criticised by several national competent authorities, stakeholders and the public, who now have serious doubts about the future effectiveness of the eie regulation, in particular because many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not listed, while other species have been included that are not likely to cause significant adverse effects on biodiversity, ecosystem services, human health or the economy or for which the measures to be taken would entail disproportionate costs.
‒ i am in favour of the article 106 objection concerning the list of invasive alien species, as i believe that the establishment of a list of such species does not address the problem of invasive alien species exhaustively in order to protect native biodiversity and ecosystem services and minimise the effects on human health or the economy that such species could have.
‒ i vote in favour of the objection as many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not listed, while other species have been included which are not likely to cause significant adverse effects on biodiversity, ecosystem services, human health or the economy or for which the measures to be taken would entail disproportionate costs.
however, if these species reach a considerable number, they can become invasive and the serious negative effects that this can have not only on biodiversity but also on society and the economy must be prevented.
i think it is very important that my colleagues in the committee on the environment should propose that the implementing decision on the placing on the market of six types of genetically modified maize be repealed.
i voted in favour of the objection because i consider that commission implementing decision (eu) 2015/2279 is not in accordance with union law, as it is not compatible with the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and regulation (ec) no 396/2005 (8) which is, on the basis of the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
as stated in the taxe report, while some of the proposed measures are sustainable and meet the requirements of transparency, no form of liability has been envisaged vis-à-vis the individuals and states individually concerned.
the failure of some multinational companies to contribute creates an environment of inequality, in which smaller national companies have difficulty competing, and this is totally contrary to the principle of the single market.
the commission has therefore renewed the mandate of the taxe committee of inquiry into tax rulings, and is focusing on the introduction of a common tax base which should be the cornerstone of a common corporate taxation (ccctb) in order to promote, through this and other coordination and convergence actions in the tax sector, sustainable development and the strengthening of the competitiveness of smes.
the commission is also concerned about climate change and the initiatives china has promised.
china, a key player in recent dialogues on the environment, security and counter-terrorism, continues to raise a number of unknowns on issues such as respect for human rights, the protection of minorities and freedom of expression, my vote in favour of the belder report on eu-china relations is based on the deep conviction that only a joint commitment and a proactive approach can ensure the successful development of the comprehensive strategic partnership in the years ahead.
the support for relations between europe and china must have as its main objectives not only the crucial ones linked to the development of infrastructure networks, the protection of fair treatment of enterprises and the development of investments but also those relating to the regulation of global markets, the non-proliferation of arms and sustainable development programmes.
however, in deepening our relationship, we must always remember to defend our core interests and values, in the spirit of a dialogue based on transparency and reciprocity, and remember that china still has a long way to go in respecting human rights, protecting workers and the environment and, in general, in making a complete transition to a market economy and the rule of law.
the report calls for greater eu-china cooperation in addressing global challenges and threats, such as the fight against terrorism, illegal immigration, global and regional security, climate change or financial governance and the global market.
eu-china relations have recently reached a new and closer level of cooperation, going beyond mere trade relations, to address common challenges such as climate change and threats to international peace and security.
but there are still too many areas which are deliberately left empty, unmentioned and not tackled with the right degree of incisiveness, such as the recognition of the esm or environmental and labour exploitation issues and many other things.
i find the political agreement on improving strategic infrastructure links between the eu and china very interesting and i note the need to cooperate with the asian giant in ambitious projects such as the one belt, one road initiative designed to build major links in the energy and communications sector in asia, which is undoubtedly a channel of global geostrategic importance.
i would also like to stress the urgency of the environmental issue, especially in the wake of the cop21 summit and the red alert in beijing over the worrying levels of smog in the city.
in this respect, i believe that greater cooperation between the eu and china is needed to tackle the major environmental challenges and the fight against climate change.
the eu-china relationship is also of particular importance in finding common responses to a number of global problems, such as the fight against terrorism and organised crime, energy security, climate change and sustainable development.
it is an attempt to underline the importance of exchanges between chinese and european citizens, and to express the hope that the chinese authorities will tackle the transition phase with due regard for the need to move towards a sustainable economy.
but beyond purely commercial exchanges, we need to strengthen cooperation in security and defence, speed up the ongoing negotiations for a new partnership and cooperation agreement based on trust, transparency and respect for human rights, and tackle the great challenge of climate change.
finally, i hope that the european union and china can adopt a coordinated strategic approach to tackling common global challenges such as the fight against corruption, economic and social progress inspired by the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism and climate change.
the production and processing of these metals is currently in crisis, caused not only by environmental policies but also by the absence of investment policies to ensure the development and growth of this sector.
the main objective of the martin report is to strike a balance between the need to invest in the base metals industry and the environmental impact, while also trying to minimise the possible damage to workers and inhabitants.
this calls for greater transparency of information on emissions, investment and the health of the surrounding population.
i have decided to vote in favour of the report because i believe that it is essential not only to improve the exchange of information on this subject but also to achieve a compromise between the needs of development and the social and environmental impacts of development.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which deals in detail with the various sensitive points for the development of a sustainable european base metals industry.
the basic metals (steel, aluminium, copper, tin, nickel, lead, cobalt alloys, molybdenum, magnesium and titanium) play a central role in european industry and are used in a number of strategic sectors: the automotive, aviation and energy industries; it is therefore important that decisive action be taken to start a process which will stimulate growth and competitiveness in a sector in which the european union cannot allow further dependencies to develop.
the document stresses the need for greater internal integration of the energy market and the identification of investment strategies for development and innovation.
the reduction in demand has led to a historic trade deficit in europe, creating dependency and loss of industrial know-how, with repercussions also in the automotive, construction and low-carbon technology sectors.
combining investment in innovation and research with the circular economy and sustainable production means achieving high quality production, minimising waste and producing knowledge and technologies that are not off-the-shelf but can withstand global market fluctuations and relaunch the base metals sector with a renewed and functional perspective.
this capacity adjustment has been of such a scale that any recovery in european demand will result in a historic trade deficit in europe, generating dependency and loss of industrial know-how that will inevitably affect the automotive, construction and low-carbon technology sectors.
climate policy is not the cause of the difficulties of these industries, but it is certainly one of the aggravating causes, as it has proved to be an accelerator of the process of relocation.
to begin to remedy this, rather than foolishly insisting on the same sorcerer's apprentice policies, urgent measures must be taken to counter climate dumping by third countries: for example, by replacing the ets with a permanent border adjustment measure (carbon tax).
steel and aluminium are two significant examples of the difficulties encountered in these professions which must at the same time continue the energy and environmental modernisation which would require an investment policy for which few of them have the means today.
however, climate policy is not at all the cause of the difficulties of these industries, but this could happen in the future if the investment crisis continues and if a european industrial policy on raw materials and base metals is not activated.
this industrial policy must have the tools and means to cope with the increase in the price of carbon which all the international institutions involved in the fight against climate change are calling for.
‒ the base metals industry plays a key role in strategic sectors of our economy such as the automotive and energy sectors.
the resolution adopted aims to ensure minimum levels of protection for the european market by modernising trade defence instruments to ensure 'fair' competition between european and non-european producers on the internal market and subjecting operators to equivalent rules, so as to ensure, inter alia, compliance with carbon emission quotas.
the resolution, inspired by principles of transparency, also focuses on the right of access to information by civil society and local communities, and pays particular attention to environmental protection.
), and on the other hand it is characterized by the high energy requirements of these industries.
in particular, the call for a fairer policy for indirect emissions compensation between member states and the introduction of border carbon adjustment should be noted, in order to combat international competition which is not subject to the ets constraints.
the european parliament's resolution, which i voted for, proposes actions to revive the european steel industry on the basis of its sustainability, such as the need for immediate action against climate change and high energy prices, support for investment in the production of low-carbon metals, european measures to protect trade in base metals.
it should not be forgotten that they are used by industries with high energy requirements and therefore a balance must be found which allows industry to remain competitive without compromising energy and emission reduction policies.
perhaps the most innovative contribution of this report is the call for the standardisation of indirect emission compensation policy among member states, also introducing a tool such as border carbon adjustment which aims to counter international competition which, as is often the case, operates under less stringent regulatory systems than those of the eu.
i think this report has succeeded in balancing environmental commitment while safeguarding the rights of workers without prejudicing industrial needs.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry because i strongly support the idea of a strong, innovative and competitive european base metals industry, but also a clean one that generates quality jobs.
i share the need for a european industrial policy in this sector that addresses the environmental and product competitiveness challenge and addresses the growing investment gap in new clean technologies, which would enable european industry to innovate and set production standards at world level.
i share the call for a border adjustment mechanism extended to the whole supply chain, which avoids the offshoring of pollution and the shifting of european production to countries with less environmental sensitivity and lower co2 costs.
i believe that european leadership in the fight against climate change must also be exercised by ensuring that competing producers apply our legislation in trade with the eu: the determination of the polluting characteristics of imported products is therefore essential.
finally, i agree with the reference to the problem of long-term energy contracts and voluntary national offsetting of direct emissions, which generates unfair competition between european producers.
‒ i am in favour of the motion for a resolution by parliament on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry.
‒ today's report addresses a central issue for the development model economic and environmental of europe today and tomorrow.
it is not necessary to repeat here the figures on overcapacity, on the conditions of chinese workers, on the environmental conditions which allow for downward competition on prices and quality.
in particular, high direct and indirect energy costs, high environmental standards, a policy to reduce co2 emissions and unregulated foreign competition have led to many plants being closed.
i am voting in favour of this report because it sets out some solutions for the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, such as harmonization of indirect cost compensation, an acceleration in the reform project of trade defence instruments and a more accessible energy market.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the development of a european base metal industry because it stresses the importance of european industry, the very serious risks it is facing and the need to take urgent action at european level to save a sector of excellence in deep crisis due to foreign competition which is not subject to the same environmental and social standards.
the main objectives of the report are the harmonisation of indirect cost compensation, the acceleration of the reform project of trade defence instruments and a more accessible energy market.
‒ we voted in favour of the martin report on the development of a sustainable european industry for base metals (such as steel, aluminium, copper, brass, nickel and lead).
the industrial importance of these metals is evident, and the environmental and energy impact is also significant.
we voted in favour because among the parts that have passed from the original text are the call for the policy of compensation for indirect emissions to be made fairer between the member states and the introduction of an innovative instrument, the adjustment of the carbon content at the border, to make fairer and fairer competition with countries which are not part of the union and which are therefore not subject to the ets.
in addition, energy-intensive industries are called upon to make continuous efforts to optimise recycling measures and to reduce co2 emissions to ensure industrial competitiveness in the future and to meet the binding reduction targets set by the eu.
steel and aluminium are two significant examples of the difficulties faced by certain sectors which face competition from many third countries with abundant raw materials and lower energy prices and which require the utmost effort to create modern facilities with a low environmental impact.
it is up to the european and national institutions to promote an industrial policy with the tools and means to move towards a low-carbon economy.
environmental protection must, however, go hand in hand with far-sighted and fair energy and trade policies, which will help to protect europe's industrial fabric and bring it back to the centre of the world stage.
‒ i voted today in favour of the report 'developing a sustainable european industry for base metals'.
it is our duty to protect our companies and workers from unfair competition and social and environmental dumping.
these are energy intensive activities which need to be taken into account in energy policy and in the reduction of co2 emissions.
the most innovative aspects of the proposal are aimed at this, namely the requirement that the policy of compensation for indirect emissions be equitable between the member states and the introduction of a system for adjusting the carbon content at the border, with the aim of countering precisely that international competition which is not subject to the restrictions of the emissions trading system.
let us not forget that the defence and promotion of human rights is not only a means of ensuring security and stability worldwide, but is also the basis of the new universal agenda for sustainable development, approved in september, and if we want to be credible actors on the international scene, we cannot fail to address domestic human rights challenges, such as the situation of roma and sinti, discrimination against lgbti people, violence against women and their rights, but above all the treatment of refugees and migrants who too often in our european union see their rights trampled on every day, as i had the opportunity to experience during a recent visit to an identification centre in italy.
what matters is that the eu-vietnam report is voted to promote not only human rights but also political participation, to have greater protection for workers and to safeguard the environment and to allow for real freedom of expression.
innovation in agriculture and the development of new plant varieties are crucial to respond to the challenges of food security and climate change and at the same time can give a significant boost to european small and medium-sized enterprises.
in this particular case, the opposition to the use of patents which has been expressed to you stems precisely from the fact that the commission has applied to the european patent office, particularly because the subject of this further request for interpretation is a very sensitive one for us, it concerns biodiversity, because the idea of patenting plant material is not only wrong, it is dangerous.
in this area, innovation and research towards biodiversity have always been the heritage of small businesses, which have done a worthy job and which for this reason must be protected and helped.
second theme: if we are moving towards a concentration produced by patents, it is clear that this will not stop with the products under consideration today, but will become the criterion, the system to be adopted for the entire chain, from agricultural production to food production, introducing negative innovations that would contradict, in contrast to what was the important step forward that the union has made in the defence of biodiversity and in research and innovation related to this species.
it has always been the small producers who have built niche positions, which then expanded, to look with interest, with positive competition, at biodiversity issues.
as if that were not enough, the growing religious intolerance is increasing the climate of terror and shrinking the space for any kind of public discussion.
we have seen pictures of daesh flags parading through the streets of the capital and all this is happening while there is still a great curtain of silence, while our tour operators continue to propose it as a destination, as if there is no such thing as a population that is even 16 percent below the poverty line; the problem of climate change, which was vigorously tackled by former president nasheed, who was deposed and is still imprisoned without a fair trial, is also a non-issue.
the increased intolerance of opposition and free speech breeds a climate of fear and anger, with the very real risk of radicalism emerging in the country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's free trade agreements are based primarily on economic criteria, taking account, within the framework of coherent policy, of respect for environmental and social standards, including human rights.
land rights are a major concern of ngos, the state plans to build fifty dams in the east of the country by 2030 to serious damage to the environment and the lands of the indigenous people.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
‒ the proposal calls for an investigation into the alleged failure of the commission to comply with its obligation under article 14 (3) of regulation (ec) no 715/2007 to verify the test cycles used to measure emissions and to adapt them, if they are no longer adequate or no longer reflect real emissions, to adequately reflect emissions from actual driving on the road, despite information on serious and persistent exceedances of emission limit values in normal use of vehicles, in breach of the obligations under article 5 (1) of regulation (ec) no 715/2007, including the 2011 and 2013 reports of the commission's joint research centre and the research of the international council on clean transportation (icct) made available in may 2014. calls for an investigation into the alleged failure of the commission and the member states authorities to adopt appropriate and effective measures to monitor and enforce the explicit prohibition on the use of handling equipment laid down in article 5 (2) of regulation (ec) no 715/2007; i vote for it.
the task of this parliament is to work on new regulations to prevent similar situations from recurring, legislation that will finally allow emissions to be measured in a realistic way, for the benefit of the environment, the citizens and, last but not least, the european car companies.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution establishing the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector, which was proposed by the envi parliamentary committee, of which i am a member, because i believe it is of paramount importance that in the face of the recent scandal involving a famous german car manufacturer, the ep, as the representative of european citizens and co-decision-maker with the council on the single market and the environment, should exercise its right of inquiry.
the committee of inquiry is called upon to examine complaints of infringement of the extensive european legislation on this subject and of maladministration in the application of it with regard to the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector, without prejudice to national prerogatives.
the agreement aims to initiate cooperation in various areas, such as counter-terrorism, sustainable development and human rights, and to develop a comprehensive strategic partnership.
vietnam is a valuable partner for the european union, especially in the field of climate change.
this agreement provides the basis for enhanced mutual cooperation in many strategically important areas such as trade and investment, the fight against climate change, science and technology, energy, migration and employment.
‒ the lochbihler report stresses the fundamental importance of respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law and calls on the vietnamese government to implement the unhcr recommendations, to promote greater political participation in the country, to ensure labour protection standards, to apply a moratorium on the death penalty for 500 prisoners awaiting execution and to safeguard the environment by stimulating initiatives such as investment in solar energy and to rethink the choice to invest in nuclear energy.
the agreement defines future relations in a wide range of subjects, with a view to further strengthening cooperation in the face of global and regional challenges such as good governance and the fight against corruption, economic and social progress taking into account the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, and the fight against terrorism.
the agreement will help to further strengthen eu-vietnam cooperation to foster economic and social progress taking into account the principle of sustainable development, as well as addressing important global challenges such as the fight against corruption and terrorism, disarmament and the abolition of weapons of mass destruction.
i believe that the acp will strengthen trade cooperation in a wide range of strategic areas, such as taxation, migration, health, environment, climate change, energy, education and culture, labour, employment and social affairs, science and technology, transport.
the eu is vietnam's largest export market and vietnam has systematically adopted a strongly pro-european approach over the past decades and has actively engaged with the eu as a member of the association of southeast asian nations (asean) in a wide range of areas including trade and investment, development, economic and political affairs, and climate change.
the report also fails to address a key consideration on the sustainability of the single currency and the need to radically rethink the current governance framework, putting national sovereignty over democratic monetary and fiscal policy choices at the centre and defining a plan for a controlled and orderly dissolution of the eurozone.
i believe that our union must be fully engaged, show solidarity with third countries in difficulty and insist on the need to fully implement the annexes and the related strategy in order to ensure sustainable return as well as fair, comprehensive and lasting solutions for internally displaced persons, refugees and other persons affected by the conflict; the report is comprehensive on these issues and i therefore vote in favour.
the maintenance of peace, the prevention of conflict, the strengthening of global security as well as the economic, social and political stability of geographical areas necessarily require clear and shared rules to avoid the risk that arms exports could be used to commit or facilitate serious acts of violence, to undermine security and the environment, to carry out internal repression or to support terrorist organisations.
the selection of plants is an essential prerequisite for the security of food supply and, to some extent, energy supply.
plant breeding is an innovative process that has been practised by farmers and farming communities for a long time and access to biological material is essential to stimulate innovation and the development of new varieties, in order to ensure global food security, address climate change and prevent essentially biological, such as plants, seeds, indigenous traits and genes, from being excluded from patentability.
continued research on plant products and access to plant biological material is important to stimulate innovation and the development of new varieties in order to: ensure global food security, address climate change and prevent plant breeding monopolies, while providing greater opportunities for smes.
the burundian government must cooperate fully in mediation efforts in order to find a lasting and credible political solution based on the principles of the arusha peace agreement and to restore a climate of peace and security to encourage the return of refugees.
a wwf report showed that the park's biodiversity is at risk because of illegal activities by poachers and foreign multinational corporations interested in the vast mineral resources.
the protection of the oldest and richest park in the republic of congo is a key tool not only for the conservation of an invaluable environmental heritage, but also for the protection of a substantial source of livelihood for the local and indigenous population.
i voted in favour of the report on the protection of the virunga national park because i believe that it is both necessary and proper to take action to protect such an environmental heritage from reckless human action.
‒ virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo is the oldest in africa and has been recognised as a unesco world heritage site for its habitats and rich biodiversity.
although state laws prohibit harmful activities in protected areas, the park's sustainable conservation is jeopardized by a special exemption in the legislation that leaves room for the possibility of downgrading the area, in whole or in part, for oil drilling.
the european union must, through its diplomatic action, help the republic of congo to abandon the redefinition of the park's boundaries and purpose by supporting the state in developing sustainable energy and economic solutions to preserve its integrity.
‒ virunga national park, located in north kivu and eastern province of the democratic republic of congo, bordering rwanda and uganda, is africa's oldest national park, a unesco world heritage site and known worldwide for its extraordinary habitats and rich biodiversity, the highest of any african park.
the eu must work with partners to pacify the area and preserve this unique, precious and highly degraded environmental resource.
the park in question is africa's oldest national park, a unesco world heritage site and known worldwide for its extraordinary habitats and rich biodiversity.
i think that in this context the european union must strive to emphasize the absolute need to prevent irreversible damage to the park, and also to ensure the conservation of biodiversity, which is a common problem for all mankind and is an integral part of the development process.
‒ virunga national park is a unesco world heritage site and is known worldwide for its extraordinary habitats and rich biodiversity.
we recall that this is the park with the greatest biodiversity in africa and is a unesco world heritage site, its value is inestimable and could create over 45,000 jobs.
the current situation, however, is characterized by perpetual armed conflict and corruption, which do not allow for sustainable environmental and economic development.
‒ nearly one third of natural heritage sites are threatened by mining operations or drilling by energy companies.
‒ for the protection of the park, which is an ecosystem to be protected with all our strength.
i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution because a commitment is needed from the eu and the member states to preserve the integrity of the park by strengthening the commitment to finance sustainable conservation and economic development and diversification of the surrounding region.
‒ virunga national park in congo is africa's oldest national park, a unesco world heritage site known worldwide for its extraordinary habitats and rich biodiversity, the highest of all african parks, and famous for its mountain gorillas, a critically endangered species.
‒ virunga national park, a unesco world heritage site, is a park with a high level of biodiversity that needs to be safeguarded and protected.
furthermore, the presence of continuous armed conflict and corruption make the economic, environmental and social situation unstable, preventing the development of this area despite its enormous potential (it could create over 45,000 jobs and its economic value could be over $1.1 billion dollars a year).
the report also calls for an end to the exploitation of natural resources and encourages the congolese government to take greater action to safeguard the environment and prevent the illegal exploitation of resources, both natural and animal (poaching).