this protocol, together with other development support instruments such as the european development fund, should promote the genuine and sustainable development of the fisheries sector and other related industries and activities in the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe, enhancing the added value that the country derives from its natural resources.
— i voted in favour on the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and são tomé and príncipe: fishing opportunities and financial contribution, because this agreement will foster the genuinely sustainable development of the fisheries sector.
it is important to note that the eu has a major responsibility in ensuring the conservation and sustainable management of international fisheries resources.
it will encourage the development of sustainable and responsible fisheries, while increasing the value of fishery products.
i agree with this request to consult the european economic and social committee on the 2011 white paper on transport: a review of sustainable mobility and progress in implementation.
— i voted in favour on the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on ‘implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: taking stock and way forward towards sustainable mobility’ because i think that consultation with the economic and social committee with be useful for parliament’s work on this issue.
the european parliament considers that member states should be given more flexibility to prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory, including on grounds of environmental protection, jealousy, the protection of biodiversity or the conservation of habitats and ecosystems.
i voted in favour of the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos because i believe that it is appropriate to follow the principle of subsidiarity by giving member states more flexibility to decide whether they want gmos to be grown on their territory, without prejudice to the environmental and human health risk assessment provided for in the eu gmo authorisation system.
— i voted in favour of the provisions for fishing in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement area, because the eu, in its capacity as a contracting party to the gfcm, has made a series of commitments in recent years, on the sustainable management and exploitation of living marine resources, which need to be transposed into union law.
very fast decisions on jobs and growth, on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, on the comprehensive energy union - that is what europe needs today.
but first and foremost we should focus on the urgent establishment of a single energy market in the european union, because this is the guarantee not only in the event of natural or economic disasters but also in the event of military or terrorist disasters.
it is therefore essential that the turkish authorities take immediate action to change the current legal and political environment in the country in order to ensure full respect for fundamental rights and freedoms.
according to the commission, the european fund for strategic investments will support strategic investments in infrastructure of european interest, in particular broadband internet and energy supply networks, as well as transport infrastructure, in particular in industrial centres.
it will also be dedicated to education, research and innovation and renewable energy and energy efficiency.
there is a lot of talk about sanctions against russia, but individual european countries today support russia by buying energy from it, for example, lithuania has a gas terminal, but the use is minimal, we cannot even sell to latvia, because the latvian economy is controlled by gazprom.
isn't it time to act and at least temporarily abandon russia's energy source?
i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at concluding a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and senegal.
i voted in favour of this report because it gives the european parliament its support for the conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and senegal.
it is important to stress that the eu has a major responsibility for ensuring the conservation and sustainable management of international fisheries resources, and it is therefore essential that each fisheries partnership agreement sets out the principles of good regulation of the fisheries sector and sound maritime management, thus ensuring the development of sustainable and responsible fisheries and the enhancement of the value of fishery products worldwide.
in addition, consumers who are concerned about the environment will be able to use a local product that is less polluting.
we must ensure that the deadlines for the creation of the single internal energy market in the european union are not postponed as they have been until now.
in the context of the energy union, the synchronisation of the electricity networks of lithuania, the baltic states and other countries with the european networks must be one of the main priorities.
a level playing field with third countries in the energy sector needs to be ensured.
all forms of energy, including nuclear energy, must be treated equally.
today, energy is not just an economic sector, today some people use energy as a weapon.
a united and strong energy union is therefore essential.
i welcome the commission's communication, mr president, on the energy union.
i believe that in the current context, the energy union is essential for the transition to a sustainable, low-carbon and competitive economy.
energy is the engine of our economy and we need to change our thinking and long-term strategies in the face of new challenges and move from an energy policy of 28 member states to a common energy policy based on internal market rules, clear and predictable long-term objectives, in which energy security and solidarity between member states play an important role.
the commission has identified precisely the dimensions that need to be implemented in the near future in order to make the energy union a reality.
– today the commission presented a new energy union package.
energy union was neglected for too long, leaving the eu with a highly unsatisfying and fragmented energy market overly dependent on states’ regulation.
therefore, now the eu needs to speed up its work in order to become more energy independent and produce energy more efficiently and hence cheaply, simultaneously taking into account environmental standards.
this can be done only by tackling the market and geopolitical security nexus, meaning that the energy sector should be considered as a part of the internal market with easy entry access, transparent rules and efficient connectivity working in full accordance with free-market principles.
we have to keep a high level of advancement in creating a european energy union, especially taking into account a great need to ensure energy security as an integral part of the overall european union security strategy.
the decision to create the eu energy union is undoubtedly one of the most significant developments of the decade.
however, for this union to be truly effective and to ensure the energy security and competitiveness of the eu as a whole, decisions that have often lacked political will until now will also have to be implemented.
i expect the future union to pay greater attention to and support the baltic states, which have often been left to reduce their total energy dependence on a single external supplier with their own resources.
we hope that the synchronisation of the baltic states with the continental european networks will become one of the key areas of the energy union.
we also want to see significant changes to ensure a level playing field with third countries and greater integration of eu energy affairs into the eu's external policy.
the commission's proposal for an energy union, which is very necessary and important for europe today, is to be welcomed.
this union is important because the energy system is facing increasing challenges to ensure a secure, sustainable and affordable supply of energy for all citizens.
our people, their households and businesses are increasingly concerned about affordability and competitiveness of energy.
unfortunately, the economic crisis has also increased energy poverty, because heating and electricity bills are so high that not everyone can afford them.
another priority for the energy union is to complete the internal energy market during this new commission's term of office, in particular by fully implementing existing legislation.
finally, i would like to mention that the situation of the baltic states with regard to full integration into the eu internal energy market is specific, as the electricity networks are operated by a third-country (russian) transmission system operator.
this is the only way to ensure the integration of the baltic states into the eu's internal energy market.
– i support strongly the creation of the resilient and robust energy union, which will provide for secure, sustainable, competitive, affordable energy for every european.
member states’ vulnerabilities, such as dependency on third-country suppliers and lack of interconnections with the eu networks, affect also the eu as a whole, and many of them were addressed with the third energy package as well as moving forward on infrastructure projects reflecting the european priority.
however, we are still on the way to attaining goals set at the highest eu level and, with fading hopes of building a civilised relationship with our biggest supplier of energy, russia, it becomes clear that we need enhanced commitment, coordination and trust among the member states – a true energy union.
‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for germany in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the company 'aleo solar' which is active in the field of solar energy production.
‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for germany in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the company 'aleo solar' which is active in the field of solar energy production.
in addition, the impact of these changes in the trading system was also reinforced by other factors such as the decreased demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu due to the economic crisis and the relative increase in the cost of production (raw materials, energy, environmental restrictions, etc.).
the impact of these changes in the trading system was also reinforced by other factors such as the decreased demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu due to the economic crisis and the relative increase in the cost of production (raw materials, energy, environmental restrictions, etc.).
‒ i agree with the directive allowing necessary derogations on the maximum weight and dimensions of heavy goods vehicles which incorporate technology to save energy or improve safety.
this way we can keep the balance between undistorted competition, protection of road infrastructure and environmental performance.
when it comes to energy saving, environmental protection and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are among the euʼs priorities.
at the same time, the improved aerodynamic characteristics of the trailers will allow for a reduction in fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.
such trucks could exceed the current mass and length limits in order to improve the overall safety and environmental performance of heavy goods vehicles.
the aerodynamic windshields at the rear of the truck would help to reduce fuel consumption and pollution.
moreover, its implementation will improve the safety and environmental performance of heavy goods vehicles without creating a significant additional financial burden for member states and business operators.
attention should be drawn to the fact that delays in the adoption of this directive have negative effects on both business and the environment.
at the same time, the improved aerodynamic characteristics of the trailers will allow for a reduction in fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because long-term financing is a crucial tool for ensuring that european economic growth is sustainable and stable.
‒ i voted in favour of this because i see it as a crucial tool to put the eu economy on a sustainable growth path again.
the european unionʼs free and fair competition policy favouring the interests of consumers and sme’s and a climate of innovative competitiveness is one of the main prerequisites needed to boost the european union’s importance worldwide and an essential tool to overcome the ongoing economic crisis, create quality employment and regain economic growth.
competition policy is a vital part of the digital single market and the energy union’s projects.
parliament should be a contributor in shaping policies for a digital single market, the energy sector, transport and financial services.
it is also important that the ep has more influence in shaping union policy in the areas of the digital single market, the energy sector, financial services, industry and transport.
it is the foundation of a european social market economy and a crucial tool for ensuring the sustainable functioning of the eu market, promoting economic growth and job creation.
i support the proposals to enable member states to boost public and private investment, to carry out the appropriate structural reforms to restore a business-friendly environment.
the european parliament considers monetary policy to be an important driver of the european union's economy and the european central bank should use it to provide liquidity to the eu's real economy, to increase demand, to promote quality investment and to create sustainable jobs.
let's not waste money on anything.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three weeks ago the european commission made a solemn announcement on the creation of the energy union.
the single currency, the single market, the single energy system - all of these are components of the european union, which have both advantages and disadvantages when it comes to the autonomy of the states and the well-being of their citizens.
in this case, the total energy is the big plus that the countries of the european union have long needed.
indeed, individual countries are not capable of ensuring energy independence and the supply of resources at the best prices.
and it's not just energy that we need unity for today, but peace.
but i am concerned that the funds for the creation of the energy infrastructure in the union are too small compared to the ambitions.
a good energy union, gentlemen, is not going to come cheap.
the single energy market needs to be accelerated and eu countries' energy independence promoted.
the creation of an energy union is very important.
the new agreement sets a clear objective: the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources.
the common fisheries policy for the mediterranean (cfp) is a so-called regional fisheries management organisation whose purpose is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources and the sustainable development of mediterranean and black sea aquaculture.
the new agreement sets a clear common objective: the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources.
it sets a clear overall objective of biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources and new definitions that makes this easier to interpret.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european union budget is crucial for creating jobs and developing enterprises and promoting entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth across the eu.
it should be noted that the eu budget is an important contribution to economic, social and territorial cohesion by supporting research and technological development, and is also important for the restructuring of the energy sector and the connection of energy networks.
i do support all four focuses: (1) employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth; (2) the investment plan; (3) internal and external solidarity; (4) respecting commitments.
i do believe that the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering in the union must be a priority in order to ensure a sustainable, solid and wealthy society.
a fundamental review and strengthening of economic governance and sustainable economic reforms are needed.
the european parliament also calls on the serbian authorities to undertake structural economic reforms throughout the country in order to promote economic growth, improve the business and investment environment, ensure balanced social and economic development in all regions, combat high unemployment and poverty, implement fiscal consolidation and combat corruption, which remains the main threat to the business environment.
in particular, structural economic reforms are needed to boost economic growth and improve the business and investment environment.
serbia needs to accelerate its progress in the energy sector.
in this context, it is essential that the commission supports the efforts of the serbian government to reduce the country's dependence on imported energy and to increase the diversity of energy resources.
however, despite some progress, the kosovo authorities should make greater efforts to combat unemployment systematically and effectively, and to promote structural economic reforms and sustainable development by establishing a regulatory framework and incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises, in addition, urgent action is needed to combat criminal gangs and high levels of corruption.
the single energy market needs to be accelerated and eu countries' energy independence promoted.
the creation of an energy union is essential to make member states more competitive and more resilient to political pressure from third countries.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for reforms to create a new business environment that encourages new business, new investment and innovation, and that ensures a return on investment, which is a key factor in attracting financial capital to the european economy.
the single energy market needs to be accelerated and eu countries' energy independence promoted.
the creation of an energy union is essential to make member states more competitive and more resilient to political pressure from third countries.
it is important to note that the european investment plan is essential to complement efforts to promote sustainable economic growth and job creation and that it needs to be supported by private and public resources in order to be successful.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
employment and social aspects should be included in ambitious economic policy measures to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and better sustainable jobs.
in addition, better involvement of the social partners and civil society is necessary to improve the quality of jobs and ensure sustainable inclusion in the labour market.
the single energy market needs to be accelerated and eu countries' energy independence promoted.
the creation of an energy union is essential to make member states more competitive and more resilient to political pressure from third countries.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because a well-functioning and efficient single market based on a sustainable, highly innovative and competitive social market economy is needed to revive europe's economy, to boost sustainable growth and competitiveness, to attract investment, to promote social cohesion and to create new jobs.
it also calls for investment in preparing people and businesses for the digital age, including the latest technologies in the energy sector, as this is the only way to ensure a global digital network, supporting education and high-quality research and innovation.
first, it is our responsibility to ensure a safe environment for children's development.
i support the report because it stresses first and foremost the benefits of the green economy and the need for an ecological transformation, since it is the development of the green economy that can help us to use resources more efficiently and to ensure sustainable development and create 5 million jobs by 2020. secondly, the report calls for reducing the minimum wage gaps between countries and for a conference on the european minimum wage system.
in 2013, it was established that the stock of this fish was at a level exceeding the maximum sustainable yield.
i support the calls for an assessment of the state of the stock of plain whiting, a proposal for a multiannual management plan to ensure that the stock exceeds the maximum sustainable yield, a scientifically based decision on minimum landings and a temporary cessation of fishing in certain areas to protect breeding grounds.
commercial and recreational fishing measures therefore need to be coordinated in order to maintain stocks in excess of the maximum sustainable yield, in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
mr president, the last european council took many important decisions for lithuania and other member states of the european union with regard to the energy union, the juncker fund and our eastern partners.
the energy union, and especially the connection of the energy islands to the internal energy market, is the guarantee of our energy security.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the energy union is a context in which solidarity is particularly important.
the european council first considered the energy union as proposed by the commission, as it is necessary to ensure a secure, sustainable, low-cost supply of energy for all citizens.
our people, their households and businesses are increasingly concerned about affordability and competitiveness of energy.
unfortunately, the economic crisis has also increased energy poverty, because heating and electricity bills are so high that not everyone can afford them.
the european council has given the highest priority to energy security and calls for a strengthened legal framework for the security of electricity and gas supply.
energy security can also be enhanced by ensuring stable networks, energy efficiency and the use of local resources and safe and sustainable low-carbon technologies.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal to allocate eur 1.8 billion of eu assistance to ukraine to ensure a more sustainable balance of payments situation.
it will promote structural reforms to enhance sustainable economic growth and improve public financial management.
it should be noted that macro-financial assistance is a unique eu crisis response mechanism that ensures a sustainable way out of a difficult economic situation.
also, given that tax policy provides a revenue base and is one of the key elements of fiscal sustainability, the transparency of tax systems will be pursued.
eu funds have a huge impact on the real lives of people as an essential tool for job creation, improvement of our environment and stimulation of infrastructure investments.
in other words, whether they have a suitable working environment.
in addition, the package of measures applied would contribute to the transition towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy.
it also recalled the competence of the member states to organise and finance social protection and endorsed the four general objectives of the commission's overall objective of modernising social protection systems: first, to work towards paying for work and guaranteeing a guaranteed income; second, to work towards guaranteeing pensions and creating sustainable pension systems.
third, to promote social inclusion and fourth, to ensure high quality, sustainable and accessible healthcare.
it's a serious threat to the environment and to people, so we can't do anything about it.
first, new rules and measures to reduce the use of plastic bags must not only be ambitious, but also have a real positive environmental impact.
environmental protection must be made economically viable for people.
it aims to ensure that the personnel on board fishing vessels are qualified (hold appropriate official certificates) and able to perform their duties (as demonstrated by medical examination) in order to minimise the risk to life and property or the marine environment during fishing operations.
the convention aims to ensure that personnel on board fishing vessels are qualified (hold appropriate official certificates) and capable of performing their duties (as evidenced by medical examination) in order to minimise the risk to life and/or property or the marine environment in the course of fishing vessel operations at sea.
minimising potential threats to safety and property at sea, and also to the marine environment is necessary; therefore we need to establish and maintain fair performance standards in the fisheries sector.
it has been a long debating process and i believe that the compromise on the directive is extremely important for the european union in order to achieve its targets on reducing greenhouse emissions and remain a front runner in innovation and sustainable biofuels.
we have to move forward with the regulation and create long-term perspectives for advanced biofuels, which will bring benefits not only for the environment but will also secure investment and the creation of new jobs.
‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to reduce the carbon footprint of the transport sector.
the eu has long promoted the production of biofuels from food crops to reduce carbon dioxide in the transport sector, but the growing use of cereals for fuel could lead to the conversion of forests into arable land and thus further increase carbon dioxide, leading to the decision to switch to biofuels produced from non-food crops and non-food biomass such as litter or algae.
the existing rules oblige eu countries to ensure that renewable energy accounts for at least 10% of energy consumed in transport by 2020. the new rules give substance to this obligation by stipulating that the share of first generation biofuels in the transport sector must not exceed 7% of energy consumption by 2020. in addition, fuel suppliers are required to report to the eu member states and the commission the greenhouse gas emissions caused by indirect land use change (indirect land use change current biofuels are mostly produced from crops grown on agricultural land).
it is important that eu member states set national targets for the share of smart biofuels in total energy consumption in transport no later than 18 months after the entry into force of the directive.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it confirms the european parliament's position on the proposal for a directive which will initiate the transition to a biofuel policy that will significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including indirect land-use change emissions.
the 2009 directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources sets a mandatory target of 10% renewable energy in transport by 2020.
in writing.
we are obliged to produce 20% of all energy consumed in the eu from renewable sources by 2020 and 10% of energy consumed in transport.
we believed that the popularisation of biofuels would help to meet the challenges of fossil fuel reduction, climate change, employment, and the development of renewable energy.
the scientists warn that the benefits of reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with the use of biofuels compared to fossil fuels may be lower or negligible, as the amount of emissions from indirect land use change may be high, and sudden spikes in global food prices raise ethical questions about the production of biofuels from food crops.
‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to oblige member states to reduce the use of plastic bags, as they pollute the environment and water bodies and damage ecosystems.
i support the obligation to label biodegradable and compostable plastic shopping bags and the proposal to assess the environmental impact of biodegradable plastic shopping bags aerobically (additives are added to conventional plastic to break it down into micro-particles over time).
this will be the first mandatory waste reduction measure at eu level.
this environmental objective will be pursued by requiring member states to choose between two obligations: either to adopt measures to ensure that the average annual consumption of lightweight plastic shopping bags per person is no more than 90 by the end of 2019 and no more than 40 by 2025. or ensure that plastic bags are not distributed free of charge at points of sale of goods or products until the end of 2018 until measures of equal effectiveness are in place.
‒ plastic bags are a big cross-border environmental problem.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon emissions from maritime transport.
the projected increase in co2 emissions from eu ships is not in line with eu objectives and will have a negative impact on climate change.
at eu level, international maritime transport remains the only transport sector not covered by the eu's greenhouse gas emission reduction commitment.
the exact co2 emissions from eu-related maritime transport are not yet known due to insufficient monitoring and reporting requirements for these emissions.
i therefore support the need to put in place a robust system for monitoring, reporting and verifying greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it was the european parliament's endorsement of the commission's proposal to set up a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
in december 2010, the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) agreed that global warming must not exceed the pre-industrial temperature of 2°c.
this is essential to mitigate the negative impacts of human activities on the climate system.
the eu institutions agreed back in 2010 that all sectors of the economy should contribute to reducing emissions, including maritime transport, which is expected to increase emissions.
the main cause of the increase in emissions is thought to be the increase in demand for maritime transport as global trade grows.
the plan must ensure the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these resources and the stability of fishing opportunities, while ensuring the livelihoods of fishermen.
‒ i voted for this report because it is the european parliament's endorsement of the establishment of a multiannual plan for sustainable fisheries in the baltic sea.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is very important to ensure that the ultimate goal of restoring and maintaining fish stocks above maximum sustainable yield is effectively and fully enforced.
apart of wood, which is certainly the most common type of energy resource extracted from forests, forest products and by-products are also used in the manufacturing process of medicine, cosmetics and detergents.
what the eu needs now is an effective and sustainable forest management system that would be able to address efficiently the challenges that forest-related industries are currently facing.
it is essential to boost the potential of our forests and encourage rural development, innovation in forest based industries, and resilience to climate change.
this proposal further strengthens the social, economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector and focuses on sustainable wood raw materials as an important european resource.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it presents the european parliament's position that the social, economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector should be further strengthened, with a focus on sustainable wood as an important european resource.
the report notes that forests and forestry are a good complementary pillar of the economy, and at the same time the best guarantor of quality of life, sustainability, jobs and added value.
the careful management and management of european forests by forestry companies and more than 16 million forest owners ensures their sustainable ecological, economic and social functioning.
– i voted in favour because we need active and sustainable forest management if we want to boost the potential of forests in the eu.
), but the overall objective must be to 'naturalise the landscape of forests, thus increasing their attractiveness'; to assess the role of forests as providers of ecosystem services and to give material expression to this.
in scientific literature, ecosystem services are defined as the services that ecosystems provide to humanity (reduction of air pollution, regulation of climate and groundwater levels, favourable living environment, forest resources that we use, etc.
); the need for the forestry sector to adapt to climate change.
forests cannot change as fast as climate change is changing, and this is causing the disappearance of many different tree species in many parts of europe.
we should develop european forests that are ready to face the challenges of climate change to achieve the highest possible degree of naturalness of forests (diverse and diverse forests).
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's response to the court's special reports on several eu policy areas, such as the activities of eurostat, eu development assistance to central asia, the effectiveness of the environmental component of the life programme, the work of the single audit and the national audit bodies used by the commission in cohesion policy, eu climate finance in the context of external aid, the reliability of the results of member states' checks on agricultural expenditure, the effectiveness of eu-supported urban public transport projects, the effectiveness of the management of preferential trade agreements, etc.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2013 for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented.
notes that the final annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators contain the data specified in the annex to the court of auditors' report and therefore supports the closure of the accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013;
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which confirms that the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 has been implemented.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european environment agency (hereinafter 'the eea') for the financial year 2013. the court of auditors stated in its report on the eaa's 2013 financial statements ('the court's report') that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the eaa's annual financial statements are reliable and that the transactions reflected therein are legal and regular and that there are no grounds for not granting discharge for 2013.
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the executive director of the european environment agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented.
‒ i voted in favour of the decision to approve the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, as the audit found no significant problems preventing the approval of the implementation of the budget.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2013 financial year of the carbon elements and hydrogen joint undertaking as the court has found that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and the results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter for 2013. the cont committee voted in favour of postponing the discharge of the iter budget on the grounds that the cost of implementing this project was twice as high as planned, that no system for monitoring expenditure deviations had been set up, that there were delays in public procurement and that the court had not been fully informed of the progress made.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's confirmation to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013 has been implemented.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter europe and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013, as the court has found that the 2013 annual accounts of the joint undertaking present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2013 and the results of operations and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
the communication also reiterates that structural and organisational reforms aimed at greater efficiency, environmental sustainability and effectiveness should continue to be pursued in the context of the exploration of synergies and cost savings, and recalls that a substantial amount of money could be saved if the institution had only one, rather than three, posts as it has today.
- i voted for the resolution, but against the proposals to increase the budget of the assistants, to increase the budget of political parties and foundations, because it is a waste of taxpayers' money.
‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to encourage the commission to draw up a new eu alcohol strategy (2016-2022) and to encourage the labelling of alcoholic beverages to indicate their energy value, as alcohol is very high in calories, but many people do not know this.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to mark the second anniversary of the collapse of the rana plaza building and to assess progress in the implementation of the sustainability agreement.
the bangladesh sustainability agreement is an agreement between the eu and the government of bangladesh, also supported by the ilo.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it marks the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and the progress made in implementing the bangladesh sustainability agreement.
the european parliament calls on the european union, its member states and the international community to help find sustainable political solutions in conflict-affected countries and to strengthen political dialogue to include all aspects of human rights, to increase the resilience of local communities and to promote the social and democratic development of the countries of origin and their peoples.
i support the motion in the resolution calling on the european union, its member states and the international community to help find sustainable political solutions in conflict-affected countries and to strengthen political dialogue to include all aspects of human rights, to increase the resilience of local communities and to promote the social and democratic development of the countries of origin and their peoples.
‒ i voted in favour because the constitutional crisis in the maldives is a problem not only because of the country's fragile situation in a difficult climate zone, but also because of the growing radicalism in the distribution and acquisition of drugs, especially among young people.
the country should address social and economic problems, improve the business environment, institutional structure, rule of law, strengthen judicial institutions, fight corruption, public administration reform.
the eib's financial activity increased by 37% to reach eur 75,1 billion in 2013. the eib's resources are mobilised to increase public and private sector investment, promote competitiveness, restore sustainable growth and promote quality jobs and infrastructure.
the energy of life".
the event has the potential to provide a major impetus to the debate on improving food production and distribution, tackling food waste, promoting and developing existing positive approaches to food scarcity and inadequacy and nutrition, and finding a balance between the availability and consumption of resources.
i agree that a strong and sustainable agricultural sector across the eu, a prosperous and diversified rural economy, a clean environment and family farms are all essential to tackling the food security challenge.
i support calls for the commission and the member states to use the exhibition to establish commitments to ensure the right to adequate, healthy, sustainable and informed food consumption.
the commission shall set binding targets to encourage member states to take action against food waste.
life energy is of particular relevance today throughout the world.
a high profile event can provide a major impetus to the debate on improving food production and distribution, tackling food waste, promoting and developing existing positive approaches to food scarcity and malnutrition and finding a balance between available and consumed resources.
it must be recognised that smes already provide services that contribute to environmentally sustainable economic growth.
in order to promote green and sustainable economic development, we also need to develop a simple consumer information system.
by empowering consumers, we will not only support sustainable business, but we will also change people's daily habits and attitudes towards the damage they do to the environment.
the commission has also found that the use of rare earths in the mining sector is not in line with the environmental objectives of the union.
i agree that it is important to set clear priorities for spending, with particular attention to measures in the areas of health, education, energy, water supply and infrastructure.
the european parliament welcomes the recent commission communication 'global partnership for poverty eradication and sustainable development beyond 2015' for its comprehensiveness, its focus on policy coherence and its confirmation of the eu's commitment to fully engage in the global partnership.
the european parliament also stresses the need to achieve the highest level of coordination in the european union in order to ensure consistency with other eu policies (environmental protection, migration, international trade, human rights, agriculture, etc.)
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the environmentally sustainable growth opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) because i believe that it is necessary to reconcile two areas of strategic importance for the eu: the green economy and the activities of smes.
it is therefore necessary to help smes to turn environmental challenges into business opportunities.
this directive is proposed to strengthen the internal market and, in particular, to reduce the complexity of cross-border movement, to protect the public against crime and terrorist acts, to safeguard the economic well-being of the european union by ensuring an efficient business environment and to enhance financial stability.
we must do more to protect society from crime and terrorist acts, and the economic well-being of the european union by ensuring an effective business environment.
this objective is in line with the current eu policy priorities to promote economic recovery and sustainable growth, investment and job preservation, as set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
the commission has clearly stated that there are currently no quantum dot leds for lighting (with or without cadmium) and agrees that the positive environmental impact of their use has not been demonstrated.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on commission delegated directive .../.../eu amending, in the light of technical progress, the provisions of annex iii to directive 2011/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council on the exemption for the use of cadmium in lighting and display equipment, as the european commission has explained that there are currently no quantum dot leds for lighting (with or without cadmium) and it agrees that the positive environmental impact of their use has not been demonstrated.
bacteria can cause devastating damage with huge economic, ecological and social consequences.
it is also essential to limit the large-scale use of pesticides, which pose risks to human and animal health and the environment.
‒ the i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the ep resolution on the common security and defence policy (based on the council's annual report to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy) because i believe that the security environment for the eu and its eastern neighbours is becoming increasingly fragile and volatile, with a large number of old and emerging security problems, and that the conflict in ukraine, the conflicts in syria and iraq with the activation of the terrorist organisation isil, the libyan crisis and the threat of terrorism in africa (especially in the sahel, libya and the somali peninsula) pose a direct threat to the security of the european union.
the security environment is facing increasingly complex and challenging challenges, and the european defence sector is threatened with becoming dependent on external factors.
the priorities should be buying fruit, vegetables and milk from local, environment-friendly farmers, and having regional authorities decide who is the best provider for the schools they administer.
for years, we've been saying that russia is using energy as a political lever.
the european union must therefore draw the right conclusions and make every effort to create a strong european energy union.
the kremlin will have to decide which path to take, but the eu will take its time to become more united, more resilient to propaganda, to trade pressures and energy wars.
the communication properly identifies the need to promote research and innovation, the difficulties in accessing medicines and environmental change as important issues of the present and the future.
given the nature and scale of the potential infringements, the strategy should be better adapted to the digital environment and include strong cooperation with customs and market surveillance authorities and ensure horizontal consistency.
this strategy should establish a comprehensive legal framework to combat it infringements, adapted to the online environment, in full respect of fundamental rights and freedoms and the principles of fair trial, proportionality and data protection.
ladies and gentlemen, the energy security of the european union is of particular importance in the current geopolitical context.
europe's dependence on energy resources not only hinders our ability to pursue an independent foreign policy, but also affects the competitiveness of our industry and the daily lives of all our citizens.
therefore, without better communication, cooperation and a united voice with third countries, europe will not be able to achieve a coherent energy policy and energy security.
we must ensure that solidarity between member states in the event of disruption of external energy supplies is not just words but concrete actions.
i believe that we need to pay particular attention to the coordinated diversification of suppliers, routes and energy sources and to the increase and promotion of local energy production.
we have and can use local energy resources, and this includes fossil fuels, renewable energy and advanced technologies, where europe leads with its innovation and skilled workforce, and we must make better use of this potential.
as has been repeatedly stated, an effective internal market is the basis for ensuring energy security and solidarity between member states.
it should be borne in mind that europe still has energy islands and that their security requires their integration into continental european networks.
finding the right balance between the different energy sectors will be one of the key challenges of the energy union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to repeat the importance of energy efficiency, renewable energy and the decarbonisation of the economy.
energy security inevitably involves all energy-related issues.
i am convinced that the implementation of the european union's internal and external energy policy is equally important.
the aim of this report is not to decide how many energy efficiency targets we need to achieve or how many buildings we need to renovate, but to set out the main guidelines on which to base our security in both the long and short term.
other energy-related issues should not be subordinated to security and can be further explored in the framework of the european energy union policy.
i have three observations: 1.the emergence and deepening of tensions between the european union and russia sends a strong signal to the entire european union to move as quickly as possible towards a fully connected, integrated and resilient energy union.
the use of energy resources as a powerful political lever against the european union is dividing it, creating internal tensions and damaging the economy.
2.i shall promote a regional approach to energy security.
the commission should make specific proposals taking into account the energy specificities of the individual regions of the european union and assessing the optimal combinations of energy types.
one of the key tasks in the field of energy security is the synchronisation of the baltic electricity networks with the continental european networks.
3.the commission has not yet presented a strategic approach to the development of nuclear energy in the european union, although the energy action plan presented by the commission emphasises the role and importance of nuclear energy in the future generation of clean electricity.
however, no action has been taken to date to provide political support to those member states which wish to continue to use or develop nuclear energy.
the document balances the technological aspects with the security of energy supply.
many of the solutions he proposes, such as the development of local renewable energy, are well-suited to address both security and environmental challenges.
and, most importantly, by successfully implementing the proposed green energy measures, by producing our own energy resources, we will be able to make a significant contribution to the achievement of other european union objectives, such as the creation of new jobs in the regions.
we greens in the report find a stronger call to abandon allegiance to the artifacts of the past century, which can cause great damage to nuclear energy and great damage to fossil fuel-based energy.
the report could be further improved by opening the european energy market to partner countries committed to european values.
the questions you are asked are indeed very important, but we must first choose a reliable, safe, environmentally friendly, non-polluting waste for future generations, sufficiently cheap and environmentally sustainable energy.
but then how do we deal with the issues of spent fuel, nuclear waste?
the energy market is waiting for action and not strategy.
this creates vulnerability, not only from a technical perspective, but, given the current geopolitical situation, it also diminishes significantly the level of energy security.
it is not enough to build adequate infrastructure within, and between, member states to develop a resilient energy union.
synchronisation should constitute a part of the energy union concept.
without this concept, the energy union would not be full and consistent.
and not just the old questions, but all the questions that are now emerging with the european energy union in the making.
the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997 and sets an internationally binding emission reduction target.
the european union has committed itself to reducing its total greenhouse gas emissions by 8% between 2008 and 2012. in 2012, the council agreed to propose an overall quantitative eu emission reduction commitment of 20% compared to 1990 levels.
i agree that ratifying this amendment will be a clear sign that the eu and its member states are committed to tackling climate change at international level and are leading the way in this process.
the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997 and sets an internationally binding emission reduction target.
the eu has committed to reducing its total greenhouse gas emissions by 8% compared to 1990 levels in the first period (2008-2012) and by 20% compared to 1990 levels in the second period (2013-2020).
‒ i voted in favour of the draft recommendation for a council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and on the implementation of the commitments entered into thereunder.
under this amendment, the eu countries, together with iceland, commit to a second emission reduction period, during which they will have to reduce their average annual greenhouse gas emissions by up to 80% by 2020. in addition, the amendment includes a number of procedural points to help ensure that this objective is achieved.
i believe that the adoption of this recommendation shows that the european union is committed to delivering on its promises and to tackling climate change on an international scale, thereby encouraging the whole world to join the fight.
this ratification decision reaffirms the commitment and leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change issues at international level.
the eu is a welcome leader in all its commitments to combat climate change.
the most polluting countries need to do much more to combat climate change.
effective results in the fight against climate change can only be achieved at the global level.
the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997 and sets an internationally binding emission reduction target.
the european union has committed itself to reducing its total greenhouse gas emissions by 8% between 2008 and 2012. in 2012, the council agreed to propose an overall quantitative eu emission reduction commitment of 20% compared to 1990 levels.
i agree that ratifying this amendment will be a clear sign that the eu and its member states are committed to tackling climate change at international level and are leading the way in this process.
the commission also notes that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures are in line with the environmental objectives of the icelandic environmental protection agency.
iceland is a member of the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) and is subject to the eu greenhouse gas monitoring mechanism regulation.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on the participation of iceland in the joint fulfilment of the commitments of the european union, its member states, and iceland, of the other part, under the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
i think that iceland's inclusion in the eu's fight against climate change shows that we have to fight for our planet not in the eu member states, but on an international scale.
the eu is one of the world's leaders in the fight against climate change because its targets are ambitious, understandable and legally binding.
at the same time, it is a great example for other countries to take joint action to address climate change issues at international level.
in order to limit the average global warming to below 2°c below the industrial level, it is necessary to reduce the impact of human activities on climate change without delay and to take urgent collective action.
without urgent action, climate change will have painful, far-reaching and irreversible consequences for all people on the planet.
a global climate change agreement, with commitments to reduce greenhouse gases across the international community, is needed to achieve the targets.
it is worth noting that the eu has long been a leader in the fight against global climate change.
the eu is a driving force in international climate change negotiations, consistently supporting a broad-based policy to combat climate change.
we have been saying for years that russia is using energy as a tool for political pressure, and the eu must draw the right conclusions and make every effort to create a strong european energy union by eliminating the energy vulnerability of individual member states.
‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal for a european energy security strategy.
first, the emergence and deepening of tensions between the eu and russia sends a strong signal to the eu as a whole to move as quickly as possible towards a fully connected, integrated and resilient energy union.
the use of energy resources as a powerful political lever against the eu divides it, creates internal tensions and undermines the economy.
secondly, i support a regional approach to energy security.
the commission should make specific proposals taking into account the energy specificities of individual eu regions and evaluate the optimal energy mix.
thirdly, the commission has not yet presented a strategic approach to the development of nuclear energy in the european union.
although the energy action plan submitted by the commission emphasises the role and importance of nuclear energy in the future generation of clean electricity, no action has been taken to date to provide political support to those member states that wish to continue to use or develop nuclear energy.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report, in which the rapporteur highlights the crisis in ukraine, which has reminded the european union of the importance of energy security and of its crucial role in consolidating a strong european political and economic position.
the geopolitical vulnerability of the energy market has made energy policy one of the strategic foreign affairs priorities.
the european union therefore needs to develop an energy policy based on a coherent and unified approach.
although significant progress has been made in recent years in improving the eu's energy security, the eu still faces a number of challenges, such as instability in energy supply regions, fragmentation of the internal market and climate change.
the communication sets out actions to reduce energy demand, increase local energy production and develop energy technologies, and further actions to create a fully integrated and well-functioning internal energy market, solidarity and coordination mechanisms.
‒ the eu’s dependency on energy imports diminishes its energy security, as seen in 2009 russian-ukrainian gas crisis.
this is apparent due to the persistently negative energy trade balance.
well-developed and interconnected gas infrastructure is one of prerequisites for reducing member states’ vulnerability in relation to disruptions from a single or/and dominant energy supplier.
we have to achieve an internal energy market, also through transparency, competition and synchronisation and by building closer links with the us liquefied natural gas (lng) market.
early notification of bilateral agreements with russian energy companies must be applied in every case and collective purchasing system for energy should be established.
finally, have to apply without hesitation the principle of rule of law to a dominant supplier, and to any energy company having a role in the eu energy market.
russian companies who want to have their share and benefits in the eu energy market must comply with established eu norms and rules.
in its communication 'strategy for growth and key challenges 2014-2015', the commission concluded that turkey is a strategic partner of the eu in terms of economic and energy security and that cooperation with turkey on foreign policy issues is necessary, but in the same communication the commission expressed concerns about the protection of fundamental rights, the independence of the judiciary, the rule of law, the right to freedom of assembly and expression.
it is therefore now necessary to ensure that the fund supports forward-looking projects that will have the greatest impact on economic growth, help europe to achieve its objectives in the fields of energy, climate, digital markets.
the successful implementation of this partnership will provide a new impetus to transatlantic trade, thus contributing to sustainable economic growth, job creation, increased international competitiveness and direct benefits for eu and us citizens and businesses.
i particularly support the intention to include a separate chapter on energy in the agreement.
i believe that there is a need for closer cooperation in energy research, technological development and innovation, and for the promotion of high standards of energy production sustainability and energy efficiency, and low-carbon and green technologies.
in view of the many critical views expressed by european society and the low level of public support for the agreement under negotiation, parliament should seek the greatest possible transparency to ensure that only a good agreement is approved, one that respects european values, promotes sustainable growth and contributes to the growth of the well-being of all citizens.
travellers should be able to choose the most sustainable, fastest or cheapest travel option tailored to their individual needs, book and pay for it online and travel with one ticket only, irrespective of the number of different modes of transport they use during the journey, on the basis of comprehensive information.
travellers should be able to choose the most sustainable, fastest or cheapest travel option tailored to their individual needs, book and pay for it online and travel with one ticket only, irrespective of the number of different modes of transport they use during the journey, on the basis of comprehensive information.
on the one hand, sustainability, economy, energy efficiency and environmental sustainability must be ensured, and on the other hand, congestion issues such as congestion and other transport problems must be addressed.
this is a good step in the right direction, but a few more steps are needed to enable european travellers to choose the most sustainable, fastest and cheapest door-to-door multimodal transport, to book and pay for it, and to be informed before and during the journey about possible disruptions or alternative routes.
with this report, the committee on industry, research and energy invites the committee on budgets responsible to include in its motion for a resolution proposals calling for the support of strategic investments with high economic and social added value, the promotion of sustainable innovation, skills and local jobs, the enhancement of eu competitiveness and the contribution to the union's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the esif will enable the european union to act in the face of transnational challenges in the areas of energy, environment and transport infrastructure requiring major investments, by helping to attract private investors to implement innovative projects needed by the public sector.
the european parliament recalls that the aim of the dairy package is to achieve a viable, sustainable and competitive dairy sector in the european union, with operational measures to ensure fair remuneration for milk producers.
dairy farmers are particularly exposed to income fluctuations linked to high capital expenditure, volatile dairy prices and fluctuating resource and energy prices.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need to promote decent job creation, competitiveness and productivity in the european union and in third countries through innovative policies and new measures to stimulate economic activity in order to re-energize sustainable growth.
the rapporteur for the european parliament considers that some of the positive experiences with the cfp are the result of better project delivery, a good quality or value-for-money ratio, access to long-term financing for infrastructure construction costs, the promotion of innovation and research, the involvement of the private sector in the design and implementation of projects, as well as the benefits of financing, a more flexible and qualified management environment, the allocation of resources to well-established companies and smes and the strengthening of the competitiveness of eu companies and their ability to participate in public procurement in third countries.
the benefits of allocating resources to well-established companies and smes and strengthening the competitiveness of eu companies and their ability to participate in public procurement in third countries also result from a more flexible and qualified management environment.
i believe that there are many benefits to be gained from building, managing, maintaining or operating infrastructure in transport, public sector buildings and installations, the environment, the provision of utilities, telecommunications or energy networks, or the development of new technologies or products, and that there are risks that could be shared by the private and public sectors.
this, as a result, would help to speed up the implementation of such strategic agendas as the energy union, the digital single market, growth and jobs and others.
the reform of greenhouse gas emission allowances is one of the most important issues in climate change policy today.
i believe that the european commission's proposed solution to create a market stability reserve will help to solve the current problems of the emissions trading system - i.e.
to reduce the surplus of emissions allowances created by the economic crisis on the market, to regulate their price, to encourage industrial companies to invest in modern, environmentally friendly technological solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
in view of the issues and concerns raised by the member states, the council, the european parliament, industry, environmental organisations, it can be said that the agreement reached should strike a balance between high european environmental standards and industrial interests.
while this proposal addresses the problem of excess allowances to be auctioned, it does not address issues related to the allocation of free allowances or the provisions governing carbon leakage.
an effective reform of emissions trading should ensure that energy-sensitive industries do not move their production capacity to third countries outside the european union that do not have such high environmental standards.
it is therefore essential that the commission submits its proposals for measures to mitigate the risk of carbon leakage as soon as possible.
i hope that these measures will help to maintain a balance between the european union's ambitious environmental objectives and industrial activity without reducing competitiveness.
the european fund for strategic investments should also be mobilised to ensure that quality jobs are created and that workers have the skills needed for the european union to move towards a sustainable growth and social model.
here i believe the eu should place greater emphasis on better governance and building sustainable, democratic and stable countries.
i support calls for negotiators to ensure high levels of protection for eu consumers, their data, health and safety and to prevent social, fiscal and environmental dumping.
the eu-us agreement should remove existing restrictions on trade in oil and liquefied gas, allowing the eu to increase energy security and reduce the price of energy resources.
the current emissions overrun, which has been accumulated since 2009, is about 2 billion.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which amends and improves the commission's proposal on the market stability reserve, together with the communication on the climate and energy policy strategy 2020-2030. the objective of this commission proposal is to implement a structural reform of the emissions trading scheme (ets) in order to reduce the surplus of allowances accumulated in the system, which is currently estimated at more than 2 billion, and to address its shortcomings in order to achieve the stated objective of promoting cost-effective and cost-effective reductions of greenhouse gas emissions.
while the overall emission ceiling is guaranteed by the 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction target, the excess allowances (atls) have a negative impact on the long-term cost-effectiveness of the system.
the surplus thus hinders the proper functioning of the carbon market and has a particularly negative impact on the carbon price, thus reducing the incentive to invest in low-carbon technologies.
if no solution is found, the cost of reducing greenhouse gas emissions will be enormous in the future.
‒ i voted for this report because the reform of greenhouse gas emission allowances is one of the most important issues in climate change policy today.
i believe that the european commission's proposed solution to create a market stability reserve will help to solve the current problems of the emissions trading system - i.e.
to reduce the surplus of emissions allowances created by the economic crisis on the market, to regulate their price, to encourage industrial companies to invest in modern, environmentally friendly technological solutions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
having regard to the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation, by which the swiss confederation becomes an associated country of the joint research and innovation programme horizon 2020 and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community, supplementing horizon 2020, and governing the participation of the swiss confederation in the activities of the iter joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy, the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of this agreement.
under this agreement, switzerland shall participate in the implementation of the horizon 2020 programme and in the activities of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the period 2014 to 2020. legal entities established in switzerland shall participate in the programmes covered by this agreement under the conditions and rules laid down in their rules of participation and dissemination, as well as in all activities of the fusion energy joint undertaking under the conditions and rules laid down by it.
‒ i voted in favour of the agreement whereby the swiss confederation becomes an associated country of the horizon 2020 joint programme for research and innovation and governs the participation of switzerland in the iter activities of the joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy.
the european fund for strategic investments and its investment platforms should also be mobilised to ensure that quality jobs are created and workers are equipped with the skills needed for the union to move towards a sustainable growth model.
in particular, we call on the member states, in cooperation with local and regional authorities, to improve their social protection systems, ensuring basic standards to provide effective, efficient and sustainable protection at all stages of a person's life, ensuring a life of dignity, solidarity, the right to social protection, full respect for social rights, justice and eliminating inequalities.
the commission presented its draft budget for 2016 proposing to accelerate and increase eu support to attract investment, improve the knowledge environment, improve learning, and address the challenges of job creation and employment.
emphasises that the transition to a sustainable society and economy, including sustainable consumption and production models, can create opportunities for new quality jobs and the transformation of existing jobs into green ones in virtually all sectors and across the value chain, from research to manufacturing, distribution and services, both in new green high-tech sectors such as renewable energy, and in traditional industries such as manufacturing and construction, agriculture and fisheries, and in service sectors such as tourism, food, transport and education; stresses at the same time that investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency not only help to create many jobs, but also contribute to maintaining the competitiveness of the european economy and industry and reducing europe's energy dependency;
in writing.
green jobs could be defined as decent work that aims to reduce energy and raw material consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, waste and pollution, and to protect and restore ecosystems.
studies show that investments in energy and resource efficiency, the development of a supply chain with a clear industrial strategy, and the shifting of the tax burden from labour to other sources have a positive impact on job creation.
the figures of an annual illicit capital flight from developing countries of an estimated usd 1 trillion and a loss of an estimated usd 189 billion in tax revenue annually (as noted in the report), are very worrying and explains why many developing countries cannot attain even the minimum tax level necessary to finance their basic functioning, public services, poverty eradication and sustainable development.
the inefficient use of resources causes environmental damage and economic risks.
the amount of resources used by the global economy in global production and waste absorption is equivalent to 1.5 times the planet's resources.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because the unsustainable use of resources causes environmental damage and economic risks.
the amount of resources used by the global economy in global production and waste absorption is equivalent to 1.5 times the planet's resources.
if this trend continues, we will be at an ecological and economic dead end.
the negative environmental impacts are very diverse and in many cases irreversible: climate change, deforestation, desertification, soil erosion, loss of biodiversity, decline in genetic diversity and the weakening of ecosystem functions.
humans are already exceeding many of the planet's limits, causing negative ecological effects such as climate change, deforestation, and more.
if these trends continue, we are projected to reach an ecological and economic dead end.
this report presents an action plan based on six key concepts: the circular economy, the phasing-out of resources, the waste hierarchy, greater producer responsibility, industrial symbiosis and new business models.
i hope that it will be implemented effectively and that it will contribute to the union's ecological and economic security.
as regards the implementing acts adopted in the event of a nuclear accident or any other radiological emergency, the european parliament's report shall provide for the possibility of amending them, if necessary, to take account of changes in pollution.
following the financial crisis, the european union institutions adopted a number of legislative measures aimed at preventing future crises and creating an environment of financial stability, which is a prerequisite for sustainable growth.
the creation of an innovation-friendly regulatory framework is a prerequisite for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as is easy, appropriate and diversified access to finance for businesses.
the european parliament supports the commission's commitment to further develop the eu digital agenda, including the modernisation of copyright, and recognises the need to review directive 2001/29/ec in order to ensure adequate remuneration for authors, performers and other rightholders, adequate protection of those rights and fair interaction between all actors in the european cultural economy (smes, consumers, users, creators and rightholders) in the digital age, which involves a constantly evolving technological environment in which user behaviour changes, opportunities arise and challenges arise.
we also support the edf's efforts to find innovative ways to support actors of change in a particularly complex political environment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament, in the light of the current difficult international environment, welcomes the experience gained to date with the activities of the european endowment for democracy (edf) and considers that the main objective of the edf is being achieved.
the edf's main tasks are to promote and strengthen democratisation and strong and sustainable democracy in countries undergoing political change, to fight corruption in those countries, to promote social and political participation by protecting activists and journalists who are doing their utmost on the ground to secure and accelerate the democratic process, and thus to increase access to justice.
the european parliament stresses that only dialogue and consensus between the burundian government, the opposition and civil society, in accordance with the arusha agreement and the burundian constitution, can lead to a sustainable political solution.
no, we have a bigger problem: food waste.
in order to prevent possible discrimination, it is appropriate to remove the exemption provided for in the regulation for products derived from seals caught in small quantities and without the aim of profit, solely for the purpose of sustainable management of marine resources.
parliament therefore calls on the commission and the member states to establish the economically efficient infrastructure needed to ensure the competitiveness, renewal, growth and sustainability of such enterprises.
the truth is that family-run businesses consist 60% of all enterprises in the european union, thus the eu must take care, in order to increase the growth of economy and create the positive environment for the further establishment of family enterprises within the eu.
in my opinion, this resolution is particularly objected towards the improvement of business environment which i am in favour of.
such enterprises are characterised by long-term sustainability and social responsibility, strengthen the social dimension of the eu economy, and play an important role in the economic development of remote and less developed regions, in particular through self-employment of young people and job creation in rural areas.
education, research and development are key aspects of sustainable development in the blue economy.
emerging sectors, in particular exploration and exploitation of mineral resources, exploration and exploitation of energy resources and biotechnologies, have a very high potential.
the exploitation of marine resources to develop sustainable renewable energy sources could make a significant contribution to the eu's energy security strategy by reducing member states' dependence on non-eu energy sources.
the financial needs of the blue economy need to be assessed at national and eu level in order to exploit its potential to promote sustainable growth and development and create jobs, with particular attention to regions highly dependent on fisheries.
nevertheless, the report is calling for the defence of biodiversity, innovation, research, modernisation, and yet generally, i am in favour of the development of the blue economy as the source of job places which has the potential to contribute to the growth of the economy.
in order to achieve the objectives set, member states must play an important role in the sustainable management and conservation of resources and in ensuring that the common interest, the public good, is given priority.
it should be noted that education and training, research and development are key aspects of the sustainable development of the blue economy.
therefore, more investment in knowledge and research is needed to develop the blue economy in a sustainable way.
an appropriate financial framework should be established to promote innovation, the sustainable development of the blue economy and job creation.
youth entrepreneurship is the key towards the prospective yet sustainable future and higher employment rates.
the eu funds must be used efficiently and responsibly to find long-term and sustainable solutions to the problem, in particular by closing the gap between education and training and the labour market and by promoting youth entrepreneurship.
education is a competence of the member states and therefore greater efforts are needed by them to introduce entrepreneurship programmes into national education systems, in cooperation with the private sector and social partners, to create an enabling environment for self-employment and self-reliance of young people.
the ideal integrated cultural heritage strategy should combine the need to ensure growth and employment as a matter of urgency with the recognition that cultural heritage is a long-term resource that requires a sustainable development plan.
member states must also ensure the sustainability of pension systems, while guaranteeing people a decent income in retirement to enable them to live a life of dignity and activity.
unfortunately, poverty among the elderly has increased in some eu countries over the past five years, putting their nutrition, health and energy deprivation at risk.
the parties should be brought closer together to ensure the sustainability of decisions and the effectiveness of their implementation.
in my opinion, this agreement must promote genuine sustainable development in the guinean fisheries sector and related industries and activities, increasing the added value that stays in the country as a result of exploiting its natural resources.
the eu has a major responsibility for ensuring the conservation and sustainable management of international fisheries resources.
it will also contribute to the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and will help ensure that fisheries resources are used responsibly in guinea-bissau's fishing zone.
i consider the partnership between the eu and guinea-bissau to be highly potential, as it pursues a sustainable fisheries policy while exploiting fishery resources in a responsible and sustainable way in the guinea-bissau exclusive economic zone.
it aims to strengthen cooperation between the eu and cape verde in the pursuit of sustainable fisheries.
the protocol agreed to implement a strict monitoring mechanism to ensure sustainable resource use and committed to follow the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
yet we should enhance cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde, thereby creating a partnership framework within which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and sound exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde, in the interests of both parties.
in particular, the protocol will strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde and ensure the development of sustainable and responsible fisheries.
in order to ensure sustainable fishing, it is necessary to ensure that the tacs are established on the basis of specific and reliable scientific data.
it aims to strengthen cooperation between the eu and cape verde in the pursuit of sustainable fisheries.
the protocol agreed to implement a strict monitoring mechanism to ensure sustainable resource use and committed to follow the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
the protocol aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde, taking into account the interests of both parties.
parliament welcomes the new protocol on fisheries between the european union and the republic of cape verde, which is being adopted in line with the environmental and socioeconomic sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy (cfp).
first of all, according to the european union’s fisheries partnership agreements (fpas), we should promote sustainability and the development of the partner countries’ fisheries sector, which i truly believe is what this resolution is orientated at.
i am in favour of concluding this agreement, which will ensure responsible and sustainable fishing.
it is important to ensure that the majority of the eu financial contribution is devoted to supporting a sustainable national fisheries policy.
the new agreement should significantly reduce the time and cost of trade and provide a favourable environment for business development.
‒ given the fact that more than 70% of the european population are living in urban areas and cities are affected by european regulation, but the coordination of various proposals with each other is not always coherent and implementation of them for cities is not easy, it is more than clear that a sustainable eu urban development policy requires an indispensable and a more unified eu approach.
the commission is invited to adopt a more location-based integrated territorial approach in the preparation of new policy initiatives for urban areas, in order to ensure coherence and to enable cities and functional urban areas to achieve the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in my opinion, it is extremely important to examine the urban policy challenges for eu policy makers and to devise guidelines and boundaries for a future sustainable eu urban development policy, as it is the purpose of this report.
the main economic, social and environmental challenges transcend traditional administrative boundaries and, in the light of the increasing discrepancies between administrative and territorial structures (urban-suburban cooperation, urban-rural cooperation, etc.
it is for these reasons that it is worth considering the possibility of developing a more sustainable economic model for the european union, with a greater focus on the creation and development of social and solidarity-based enterprises.
by its nature and the initial structure laid down in the treaty, this policy naturally contributes to the achievement of the union's objectives, in particular the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and the treaty's core objective of strengthening territorial cohesion.
primarily, the core targets of cohesion investments as the digitalisation, energy efficiency, employment and smes are the key areas that promise the creation of job places.
‒ cohesion policy has certainly helped to keep investment in less attractive regions during the crisis, and it helps to address the problems of balanced, smart and sustainable growth, job creation and youth unemployment.
i agree that the commission should provide funding for this future convention, which is an open and large network, already bringing together more than 270 local and regional authorities, academics and civil society organisations, committed to tackling the challenge of demographic change in europe by promoting an age-friendly environment.
it is very important to promote an environment that is conducive to older people.
together, these proposals will help to achieve a significant reduction in europe's dependence on imported oil and a 60% reduction in vehicle co2 emissions by 2050. i agree that the main objectives should be a reliable and competitive global transport system, competition for eu airlines, the transition to a low-carbon transport system, a balance between the different transport modes, and a common european transport area.
‒ i voted in favour of this parliament's report on the implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport policy, the review of the results and the next steps towards sustainable mobility.
a european sustainable mobility policy must be based on a range of policy instruments to move towards the economic use of low-emission and low-energy vehicles.
the commission is invited to update the emission reduction targets set out in the white paper, as set out in parliament's resolution of 5 february 2014 on a 2030 climate and energy policy strategy and in the european council conclusions of 23 and 24 october 2014 on a 2030 climate and energy policy strategy, and to propose measures to help member states achieve the binding eu target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions within the eu by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels.
above all, the progress is crucially needed: new models of transport must be created, which would be more effective and sustainable, which would increase the speed of the movement of people and goods within the eu.
in the near future, the eu must address important challenges such as economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and, above all, job creation, with particular attention to the most vulnerable groups, such as, among others, young people, women, the elderly, the long-term unemployed, the disabled, immigrants or the roma community.
social innovation and social entrepreneurship are key drivers for the development of the social economy and should be promoted through action in the areas of education and training, better funding, increased visibility and better legal environment.
addressing this challenge requires ambitious economic policy and labour market reforms to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and create more jobs in order to overcome the distortions in the eu labour market.
parliament believes that ambitious economic and social policy and labour market reforms are needed, as well as economically sustainable social protection systems, including qualifications for the unemployed, and job opportunities for people with no or very low qualifications.
this should especially be applied to the most problematic areas such as transport, health and consumers protection, protection of the environment, and internal market and services.
these reports indicate that the main areas in which member states were most affected by infringements of the transposition of eu law in 2012 were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and internal market and services issues, while the areas in which the greatest problems were identified in 2013 were environment, health and consumer protection, internal market and services and transport.
parliament welcomes the 30th and 31st annual reports of the commission on the monitoring of the application of eu law and notes that these reports indicate that the main areas in which member states were most affected by infringement proceedings in 2012 were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection, internal market and services, and in 2013 - environment, health and consumer protection, internal market and services and transport.
countries are being asked to reach a certain level of renewable energy by 2020, and already today, a number of countries have reached that level and have settled down and are not doing anything else.
i would like to congratulate the commission on the launch of a new energy package.
this is an important step towards the implementation of the european energy union.
i would like to draw particular attention to the commission communication on consultations on the new energy market model.
i fully agree that it is necessary to restructure and organise the european energy system in such a way that we can effectively implement the transition to sustainable and consumer-oriented energy.
in the electricity system and markets, information and communication technologies play an increasingly important role both in energy generation and transmission networks and in households using smart meters.
i therefore invite the commission to focus more on the measures and actions needed to ensure the security of energy systems, and to assess, prevent and combat cyber threats.
to be more precise, in my opinion it is essential to fully and effectively apply existing legislation in the single market and other areas such as environmental law and cohesion policy.
particular attention should be paid to the shift of the tax burden from labour to other sustainable forms of taxation.
the development of psychoactive substances poses a particular risk to human health and the environment and requires urgent action by the member states.
the development of psychoactive substances poses a particular risk to human health and the environment and requires urgent action by the member states.
the development of psychoactive substances poses a particular risk to human health and the environment and requires urgent action by the member states.
the development of psychoactive substances poses a particular risk to human health and the environment and requires urgent action by the member states.
greece faces a lack of liquidity and a shortage of public funds that could be allocated to public investments necessary to promote a sustainable recovery.
the country faces a lack of liquidity and a lack of public funds that could be allocated to public investments necessary to promote a sustainable recovery.
it is also important to ensure that local authorities are better represented in the international negotiations on the adoption of the post-2015 development agenda at the international conference on financing for development and the 21st united nations climate change conference (cop 21).
local authorities have to be empowered through financial, technological and human resources fairly allocated between the central and the local governance levels as it is the local authorities that can help the most to ensure proper implementation for the goals of sustainable development.
in particular, local authorities play a crucial role in the development cooperation process by integrating the three main dimensions of development: social, economic and environmental, and by promoting development at both local and national levels.
more room for manoeuvre is needed for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in creating jobs and promoting sustainable and inclusive economic growth,
in writing.
the message to eu citizens is that the eu's rhetoric about consumer rights and welfare cannot be trusted, nor can the priorities it puts on environment and climate change.
the scandal has further damaged the eu's reputation in world politics, especially when it comes to the eu's position on climate change.
the world's most important climate change conference in paris is approaching, but how can the eu demand that other countries commit to binding co2 reduction targets if it has failed to control its own producers?
i agree with this report, which sets strict obligations to reduce emissions of air pollution, particularly particulate matter.
as you know, countries like lithuania, for obvious geopolitical reasons, are moving very quickly towards renewable heat supply.
i call on the commission to make it possible for companies producing energy from renewable sources to meet the new requirements, alongside the obligation.
if this were to be done at our own expense, it would not be fair and would not be an incentive for the development of biomass in energy, which not only reduces climate change but also creates jobs and taxes and forms energy independence.
mr president, the report by mr grzyb on the limitation of certain emissions into the air in the european union has opened up a very important topic for countries like lithuania, where air quality is still quite good.
the rapporteur is well aware that air pollution is a cross-border problem, which is coming to many member states from neighbouring countries.
this is why limiting emissions is so important for the countries of north-eastern europe, the green lungs of the continent.
as the european commission's data show, we have a serious gap in environmental legislation today.
in particular, the legislation introduced will reduce the healthcare costs associated with air pollution-related diseases in the future.
secondly, the legal provisions will have a significant impact on environmental protection, which will be particularly important for agriculture, as it is expected to reduce crop losses.
the implementation of the expected reforms, combined with the assets available, such as tunisia's human resources, and an open economy will unlock this potential and provide a more sustainable and inclusive boost to the country's economy.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to limit certain emissions into the air.
it aims to contribute to the reduction of nox, so2 and dust emissions by setting limit values for new and existing installations and by introducing a simple registration system to facilitate the implementation of a large part of the member states' emission reduction commitments.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the commission's proposal for a directive on the limitation of certain emissions of pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants.
this proposal is part of the european union's action programme on air quality, set out in the revised eu thematic air pollution strategy, and is consistent with and supports the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
in addition, in order to make progress towards the eu's long-term (post-2020) objective of further reducing the health and environmental impacts of air pollution, a range of policy options were evaluated in the search for a cost-effective package of measures.
a sample of additional eu source control measures was examined, one of which was for emissions from medium-sized combustion plants.
the importance of this report first and foremost stems from the fact that the proposal closes an important legislative loophole due to which emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants were left largely unregulated at the eu level.
a coherent and ambitious framework for tackling emissions needs to be developed at eu level.
in particular, it is necessary to close regulatory loopholes and strike a balance between the costs and benefits of business to the environment and human health.
air pollution must be controlled.
it is worth noting that reducing emissions from medium-sized combustion plants would contribute to the eu's energy and climate objectives, as well as to reducing greenhouse gases, increasing energy efficiency and promoting renewable energy.
new provisions are included on market consultation, a new innovation partnership procedure, compliance with environmental, social and labour law as one of the key requirements, non-specific order of assessment of criteria, a methodology for awarding contracts based on the most economically advantageous tender.
reducing the european union's energy dependence on russia is one of the key objectives of the energy union.
therefore, such a long-term agreement between european energy companies and gazprom on the doubling of gas supplies to the nord stream pipeline is clearly contrary to the energy policy of the european union.
the agreement unfairly circumvents the central and eastern european member states, which are still cut off from the european energy gas and electricity networks.
what is the situation now for the member states most affected by russia in terms of energy, which, like lithuania, have built a liquefied gas terminal at their own expense, without financial assistance from the european union, in order to have at least one energy alternative and to reduce the price paid for energy resources?
if private companies can make decisions that may even harm the interests of individual member states, our partners like ukraine, and the european union as a whole, then the question arises of what value is there in all our efforts to strengthen our energy independence, to further distance ourselves from russia in terms of energy, to invest billions of dollars in the missing infrastructure, and so on.
it is scandalous that we have not been able to ensure that the commission is obliged to be informed of all energy agreements and to assess their impact.
secondly, do you not think that the expansion of nord stream inherently contradicts the eu energy security strategy and eu energy union?
and thirdly, how can you see doubling the nord stream capacity as being consistent with reducing eu energy dependency on russia?
the commission should not treat this project as a commercial venture only, but should look at it in its entirety in the context of the european union's geostrategic interests, security and climate objectives.
this project does not meet the stated objectives of the european union in terms of energy diversification and does not create a new source or route.
and it does not meet the european union's priorities for energy efficiency and energy independence.
although the european commission successfully suspended the southstream project, expecting that russian energy interceptors would not be able to cover all of europe, moscow and turkey agreed to implement the bluestream project.
however, this would only further entrench the already strong influence of the russian gas giant in europe it poses a serious threat to the energy security of the countries of central and eastern europe and is fundamentally contrary to the idea of european solidarity.
on 4 october 2010, a collapsed waste dump in hungary released nearly 1 million cubic metres of highly charged red mud, flooding several villages and killing 10 people and injuring nearly 150. this disaster is attributed to poor implementation of eu legislation, insufficient checks, gaps in the relevant eu legislation and the performance of the warehouse manager.
i support calls for the commission to focus more on research and technological development in the field of prevention and management of hazardous waste.
the commission should develop guidelines for stress testing in existing mines with large waste storage facilities.
parliament also expressed concern at the existence of similar sites in several member states and called on all member states with red sludge tanks to verify as soon as possible that red sludge is properly classified as hazardous waste and to correct any permits that contained incorrect classification.
more attention should be paid to research and technological development in the field of prevention and management of hazardous waste.
the commission should submit a proposal for legislation on environmental inspections as soon as possible.
it should be noted that particular attention should be paid to the transparency of the financial aspects of the remediation of the consequences of environmental disasters, including the payment of financial compensation to victims.
in addition, the commission should prepare a legislative proposal on the right of access to justice in environmental matters.
climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity, with implications for sustainable development, health and the global economy.
rising temperatures, melting ice caps, and increased droughts and floods are all signs that the climate is warming.
the response to climate change therefore requires an urgent, responsible and global solution based on solidarity of the international community.
on 6 march 2015, eu environment ministers formally committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union.
the european union and its member states have jointly committed to a binding target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990. in march 2015, the european union informed the secretariat of the unfccc of the estimated national contribution.
the eu needs to pursue an effective and ambitious policy to transition to a different energy system by 2050, using not only climate and energy policy instruments but also other areas such as transport, research, innovation, trade and development cooperation.
climate change is no longer a matter of debate, but a problem that must be addressed now.
it is right that the european union is taking a leading role in setting ambitious targets to help tackle climate change.
in this global context, we should not forget the competitiveness of our industry and the problem of carbon leakage.
i am convinced that the new energy model, focusing on energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, that we have chosen to implement in europe is the right way to fight climate change, and that clear progress has been made and that new opportunities must be exploited in the negotiations leading to the adoption of a new international climate change agreement in paris.
‒ climate change is a present and real problem which can be addressed only by a joint international effort.
it is time to reconsider the action plan which could help mitigate climate change.
‒ the i voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out the mandate of the european parliament's delegation to the united nations climate change conference in paris at the end of the year.
i support calls for binding targets to combat the effects of climate change: 40% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by 2030, 30% for renewable energy and 40% for energy efficiency.
the eu's climate policy needs to be stepped up to meet the eu's 2050 greenhouse gas emission reduction target of 80-95% compared to 1990 levels.
measures to combat climate change need to be reviewed by 2020 to take account of the latest scientific assessments.
in 2015, the eu and its member states should agree on a plan to contribute in good faith to the us$100 billion commitment to combat climate change by 2020. it is important to use additional sources of financing by deferring part of the marketing of allowances or by using the revenues from the control of emissions from the aviation and shipping sectors.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because the european parliament is actively involved in european policy on climate change.
the success of the european union (its emissions decreased by 19% between 1990 and 2012, and its gdp increased by 45%) and the fact that eu emissions are a decreasing share of global emissions show that climate change mitigation is compatible with economic development.
the european union must continue and strengthen its diplomatic efforts to better understand the positions of partner countries, to encourage them to adopt ambitious policies to combat climate change and to build alliances to that end.
‒ i voted for the resolution ‘towards a new international climate agreement in paris’.
‒ climate change is one of the most pressing global issues.
it is therefore essential that an agreement on a new international climate change agreement is reached in paris.
we cannot remain indifferent to the challenges of climate change.
the issues of climate change mitigation, adaptation, finance, technology development, transparency of action and support need to be addressed urgently.
all countries in the world should make legally binding climate change mitigation commitments after 2020. it should be noted that the new agreement should be in line with today's economic reality.
all countries must contribute to the financing of climate change action and the divide between developing and developed countries must be removed.
in writing.– since our economy is more and more interlinked with a digital dimension, i believe that a genuine single market for electronic communications is an essential part in order to pave the path for sustainable growth in europe by improving conditions for the existing international businesses and digital industries.
the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
this is a case of the eu responding and adapting to the changing and ever-modernising environment, where packaged sales and linked travel arrangements are becoming more and more popular.
due to the fact that the parliament had to give in on a very complicated mechanism to ensure the sustainability of certain operators, even though the principle of this safeguard clause was shared, the design is very complicated.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it confirms parliament's discharge for the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the artemis joint undertaking was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in a wide range of applications, with a view to promoting the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to facilitating the emergence of new markets and the application of technologies of benefit to society.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013, as it gives parliament discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. in my view, the purpose of this undertaking is important to define and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in various fields of application, with a view to promoting the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to facilitating the emergence of new markets and the application of technologies of benefit to society.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to replace car pollution testing.
the european parliament has long called for a change in the car emissions control system and for testing to be carried out in real conditions, rather than just in laboratories, as the officially declared pollution and fuel consumption indicators did not correspond to real conditions.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it was parliament's response to the recent volkswagen scandal involving falsified car emissions tests.
parliament called for a full investigation into the falsification of car emissions tests and for the perpetrators to be punished.
the resolution proposes to reform the eu's vehicle emission control system, introduce real-world emissions testing and allow national authorities to revoke the authorisation to operate vehicles that exceed eu emission limits.
parliament strongly condemned the fraudulent practices of car manufacturers which had been revealed and regretted the disappointment of millions of consumers and the continuing pollution and damage to human health.
‒ i have voted for this resolution on emission measurements in the automotive sector because the european parliament considers it regrettable that these excess emissions have caused unnecessary premature deaths, harmful effects on human health, and environmental damage, deplores the serious lack of enforcement of eu internal market regulation and calls on the sector of the automobile industry having engaged in unfair practices to finance and support updates of independent rankings of road vehicles on the basis of environmental performance, among other actions.
excess emissions of particulate matter and ozone concentrations causing well over 400 000 premature deaths annually must be kept down.
to do so, the parliament calls for consideration to be given to an independent eu-level surveillance authority that would oversee the testing and urges the commission to adopt and implement a new real driving emissions test cycle, as well as implementing them to measure not only the nox emissions, but also use it to measure all pollutants.
in particular, the commission should investigate as soon as possible the case of fraudulent emissions measurements by the company 'volkswagen' and extend this investigation to all car manufacturers.
producers who have breached the requirements of the legislation should be compensated for any subsidies, tax rebates or other financial incentives received on the basis of environmental performance claims.
particular attention shall be paid to social progress and to the preservation and promotion of the potential of each country, as well as to job creation, sustainable use of natural resources and environmental protection.
‒ i voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 as regards the possibility for the member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory because this legislative act sets out an authorisation procedures to ensure, via a scientific risk assessment, that the placing on the market of the products concerned will not pose a risk to human or animal health or to the environment.
a high level of environmental protection and improvement of its quality are among the objectives of the union as laid down in the treaty on european union.
the effective functioning of the internal market requires a high level of protection of human health, consumer interests and the environment.
it should be noted that member states should be allowed to temporarily restrict or suspend the marketing and use of the food or food ingredient concerned on their territory due to a potential risk to human health or the environment.
‒ the i voted in favour of this proposal on certain emissions into the atmosphere.
air pollutants are a major transboundary human health and environmental problem that has a huge impact on all eu citizens and requires urgent action.
in europe, the total external cost of air pollution to society in relation to health is estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year.
in addition, there is growing evidence that atmospheric nitrogen deposition changes the natural environment, such as eutrophication and acidification, leading to a decrease in the diversity of surface vegetation, a slowdown in plant growth and an imbalance in nutrition.
efforts are being made across the union to reduce air pollution, but most member states are not meeting agreed standards.
the commission proposal repeals and replaces the existing national emission limits (nel) directive by setting new limits for emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds in 2020 and 2030.
in writing.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is the parliament's position on the directive on the reduction of emissions in certain member states.
air pollution has recently emerged as a major public health issue on the political agenda a. poor air quality contributes to premature death, disability due to illness, high health costs, lost productivity, lost crops and loss of income.
in europe, the total external costs of air pollution to society are estimated to cost between 33 and 40 billion euros per year.
in addition, there is growing evidence that atmospheric nitrogen deposits are changing the natural environment, e.g.
the eu is also working to reduce air pollution, but most countries are still not doing enough to reduce it.
‒ i voted for this report in order to support the setting of a level playing field, ensuring that installations in all member states make a fair effort to reduce pollution.
air pollution currently causes more than 400 000 premature deaths in the eu each year.
air pollution is harmful to human health and the environment.
it is necessary to reduce emissions into the atmosphere, especially in the industrial and energy sectors.
when setting new national emission ceilings for the main types of atmospheric pollutants, it is necessary to assess the efforts already made by member states.
scientific applied research is required to assess the extent of pollution and its impact on the environment.
the introduction of more environmentally friendly technologies and cleaner production methods and the application of more effective environmental protection measures should also be encouraged.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new eu-funded action plan for the protection of the environment, which is being implemented by the european union.
eusair is a great opportunity for the countries of the region, led by the commission, to work together towards prosperity and sustainable development, and to put economic and political challenges in the past.
cohesion policy is an integral part of this very important strategy aimed at boosting growth and jobs under europe 2020. reducing the disparities between the regions will help less-developed european countries to catch up with the standards of the european economy and help to achieve such overarching goals as the digital single market, the energy union and the single capital market.
cohesion policy is the eu's main policy for investment and development, which is aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
stresses that the eu should focus more on sustainable economic growth and development and the creation of decent jobs in order to ensure that its investments deliver long-term benefits.
it is closely aligned with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
ensuring that resources are invested efficiently is essential to support smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ a stable macroeconomic environment, including high-quality management at all levels, allows for the successful use of european structural and investment (esi) funds.
i agree that it is important to respect the principles of proportionality and equal treatment when applying the provisions of article 23 and to ensure a more sustainable and effective cohesion policy.
the eu's cohesion policy is an expression of european solidarity, aimed at strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu and, in particular, reducing regional disparities by promoting balanced and sustainable social and economic development.
cohesion policy is also an investment policy, which contributes to the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the eu and its member states.
good governance and effective public institutions in the member states are crucial for sustainable and long-term economic growth, job creation and social and territorial development, and, conversely, economic and financial unpredictability and legal uncertainty can lead to a decline in public and private investment, thus jeopardising the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy.
it should be noted that a stable macroeconomic environment ensures the successful use of the european structural and investment funds.
the european strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth europe 2020 is based on five key objectives of equal importance.
unfortunately, the lack of implementation of the country-specific recommendations in some member states is hampering the creation of an enabling environment for growth and investment.
i think that we should consider replacing austerity with a new sustainable and democratic system that allows member states to pursue their own economic policies.
the potential uses of these systems are very diverse and may be further developed in the future: they help, for example, to carry out security checks and to monitor infrastructure (railways, dams and energy installations), as well as to assess natural disasters, to carry out (environmentally responsible) precision farming activities, to develop media production, to perform aerodynamic thermography or to deliver consignments to remote regions.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
in order to preserve and enhance cultural and natural heritage, sustainable and responsible tourism must become a priority across the eu.
interoperability is increasingly enhancing the potential quality of public services and creating an environment in which businesses can become more competitive and citizens can obtain greater satisfaction.
at the same time, air pollution has increased and airports are overcrowded.
i agree that the main objectives should be to make the growth of the european aviation industry more sustainable and competitive, to strengthen european airlines, airports and the aeronautical industry, to ensure a level playing field in the global market and to have a long-term strategy for the european aviation sector.
parliament therefore considers that the aviation package should stimulate the much-needed growth of a more sustainable and competitive european aviation industry, strengthen european airlines, airports and the aeronautics industry, ensure a level playing field in the global market and set out a long-term strategy for the european aviation sector.
in particular, the new aviation package should foster the growth of a more sustainable and competitive european aviation industry.
the energy report tries to convince us that the european union is still trying to speak with one voice on energy matters, but the reality is quite different.
europe has indeed moved away from this objective in its common commitment to tackling energy problems, and since the summer has been much more concerned with how to meet the interests of individual european states.
it is this faster europe that is looking after its own interests today, rather than a single energy policy.
can we talk about a single european energy market after such decisions?
i suggest that the european commission and the european parliament both move as quickly as possible away from such possible misunderstandings and not only clearly define european energy priorities, but also adhere to them.
i think you will all agree that unity, solidarity and speaking with one voice in relations with third countries must be the basic principle of the european union's energy policy.
these values must be the basis for the energy union.
the energy union will only be strong if projects such as nord stream 2 are assessed holistically.
we therefore expect and demand that the commission take swift and decisive action in this case to confirm that the vision of the european energy union is not just empty words.
despite the important decisions taken in the past in the energy sector, many complex challenges remain before the full integration of electricity and gas networks is achieved.
but, of course, for lithuania alone, this is a costly project, but lithuania did not want to be dependent on one gas source from the east for another 15 years and pay 30% more, according to previous commission proposals, but wanted greater energy security and achieved its own.
this is in line with the objectives of the energy union and, for the sake of fairness, european financial support should be provided for this project, not just political support.
commissioner, although you say that nord stream 2 is a project of common interest, commercial projects must also meet the european union's energy objectives.
in writing.– since the adoption of the energy union framework strategy, huge progress has been made towards achieving a genuine energy union among member states.
however, lack of unity in political decision-making in terms of external energy supply is threatening the energy union’s future, and we need to be extremely cautious about plans such as the nord stream ii gas pipeline, which would further advance eu’s dependency on russia.
if we want to diversify europe’s energy sources, member states need to show a stronger political will to reduce energy dependence from the east as both its political and economic costs are unpredictable.
in my opinion, the future of the energy union relies on ensuring not only affordable and environmentally friendly but also secure energy for eu citizens.
the eu, in accordance with its commitments under the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982 relating to the conservation and management of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks, has been cooperating very actively with all regional fisheries organisations in a bid to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
it should be noted that the european union pursues an active policy of participation in all regional fisheries organisations in order to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
moreover, membership of the organisation would contribute to the consistent application of the principle of conservation across the oceans and would consolidate the commitment to the long-term conservation and sustainable use of fisheries resources worldwide.
‒ the european union, in addition to the commitments set out in the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea relating to the conservation and management of highly migratory and highly migratory fish stocks, pursues a very active policy of participation in all regional fisheries organisations in order to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
the funding does not always take into account the real needs of the beneficiaries and it is therefore important to move to quality control in order to achieve long-term and sustainable results in the actions undertaken.
and cohesion policy should be an important tool for shaping results-based policies to effectively create strong, sustainable economic growth in the regions where it is most needed.
the eu security environment is becoming increasingly volatile and unstable due to a large number of old and emerging security problems.
the eu also plays a key role in bilateral and multilateral trade agreements and has developed active trade policy instruments to promote economic growth, reduce poverty and protect the environment and natural resources.
this substance is classified as a substance of very high concern due to its reproductive toxicity, endocrine toxicity and environmental toxicity.
the commission is accountable to european society for protecting citizens and the environment from hazardous chemicals, while promoting innovation, including in safer chemicals and products, to foster a resilient economy.
the european parliament, concerned about the protection of human health and the environment, calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new draft rejecting the applications for authorisation of recycled soft pvc containing dehp.
i agree that construction, energy, agriculture are important for georgia, and we wish it good fortune and progress.
however, can we expect human rights without a lasting peace, security and a sustainable state?
trade liberalisation is an important tool for sustainable economic growth and development, but trade liberalisation also requires the implementation of appropriate accompanying policies, including budgetary transparency, fiscal policy, administrative simplification, education and training, institutional reforms and social policy.
calls therefore on all wto members to consider all options to achieve a large-scale, universal, sustainable and realistic outcome with this ultimate objective in mind.
it is important that this agreement enters into force and is implemented swiftly and fully, as this will contribute to the protection of citizens and the environment.
transparent and binding action plans for human rights, environmental protection and workers' rights must be drawn up and their proper implementation ensured.
therefore, in order to ensure the success of this policy, its effective impact on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to bring it closer to citizens, it is necessary to simplify the rules governing cohesion policy.
in addition, the principle of good governance, which is crucial for the effective implementation of cohesion policy and for successfully contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth, should be implemented.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport in order to meet the challenges of our age: climate, health and the environment, well-being and safety for all.
i agree that the main priorities for improving urban mobility should be: return of space and infrastructure to all citizens and improvement of accessibility, improvement of the environment, quality of life and health, energy saving and climate protection, innovation, more sustainable and safer urban mobility, reduction of external costs and ensuring higher quality investments, etc.
traffic congestion, traffic regulation, human safety on the streets and roads, environmental and health impacts, etc.
the transition to more sustainable modes of transport is therefore very slow: the car remains our main means of mobility, accounting for 43% of the world's kilometres and three quarters of european journeys.
the aim of this report is therefore to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport in order to meet the challenges of our age: climate, health and the environment, well-being and safety for all.
current and future urban mobility must be based on ecological mobility and cooperation networks.
with this in mind, we want to promote inter-modality and co-modality in a way that can deliver more sustainable and efficient urban transport modes.
the changing urban transport system must ensure the mobility needs of each citizen and the accessibility of urban areas within the shortest distance and the shortest time, while protecting the environment and improving the quality of life.
the development of sustainable and environmentally friendly urban transport strategies and sustainable mobility plans should therefore be encouraged.
it should be noted that the development of sustainable mobility plans is an important element of the financing of eu projects in the field of urban transport.
it is essential that the esi funds are systematically used to develop and implement comprehensive and integrated plans for sustainable urban mobility.
urban mobility should contribute to the eu's resource efficiency goals, reducing air pollution, noise, greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption.
the report aims to shift urban mobility towards more sustainable vehicles in order to meet the challenges of our age, such as health and environmental protection or safety.
to achieve this, the european union needs to set itself ambitious targets so that the member states, regions and local authorities can work together to implement this new model of sustainable urban mobility.
thanks to the persistence of the baltic states and the support of the european union, one of the most isolated energy islands has disappeared today.
this is also good news for local energy producers, as the interconnectors will allow electricity to be exported.
it is also good news for all those who care about our environment, as connectivity is a prerequisite for the development of renewable sources.
so, in short, it's a good day for all of us who want an independent, secure, third-party-free energy system.
with the agreement reached at the climate change conference, the creation of a european energy union is even more urgent.
the european energy union needs to be effective and able to respond and adapt to new challenges in the global energy and geopolitical context.
however, i believe that the objectives and measures of the energy union are clearly set out in it.
adequate attention shall be paid to internal aspects of the energy union, such as the establishment of the internal market, security of supply, infrastructure, energy efficiency or the reduction of greenhouse gases.
but the secondary plan should not be to consolidate a genuine european energy foreign policy.
the recent vision of a european energy union is, i believe, still lacking, as we can see from the decision on the nordstream 2 pipeline.
i am convinced that the success of the energy union will depend not on the lofty goals we set but on how we achieve them.
i would urge my colleagues to concentrate on those areas of energy policy where consensus is possible.
the commission presented the first annual report on the energy union last month and i hope that parliament will be able to formulate its position in time.
the measures introduced by this amendment will ensure the long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic, thus ensuring sustainable outcomes for the benefit of both the environment and society.
it should be noted that the economic viability of the fishing sector depends on the sustainable use of marine resources, the management, conservation and recovery of fish stocks, rational planning and maintenance.
fisheries policy must be implemented with a view to achieving benefits for both the environment and society.
only an effective common control and enforcement system will ensure sustainability, facilitate sustainable economic and social development and promote the competitiveness of the fisheries sector.
the measures introduced by this amendment will ensure the long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic, thus ensuring sustainable outcomes for the benefit of both the environment and society.
‒ i have voted for the report on towards a european energy union because i strongly believe that european energy union is a key pillar in the eu long-term energy strategy.
it sets an important cornerstone for a fully open and free common energy market, ensuring compliance with the highest environmental and efficiency standards while stimulating economic competitiveness.
in close cooperation member states will have access to the cleanest and most cost effective sources of energy without being exposed to politically and economically unreliable third country suppliers.
first, the eu's national and regional isolation from the internal energy market must be removed as soon as possible.
a voluntary mechanism should also be set up to allow eu countries to buy energy resources together.
the eu energy efficiency target after 2020 should be mandatory.
it is also essential that the eu adheres to its 2030 emissions reduction target of at least 40%.
it should be noted that energy is a social asset of society and that the issue of energy poverty should be addressed and concrete measures taken to address this problem as a matter of urgency.
in view of the importance of nuclear energy, member states wishing to implement new projects should be given a favourable opportunity.
the commission should also pay attention to hydraulic fracturing, which is a risky activity with negative effects on the climate, the environment and public health.
‒ mr president,although i am not satisfied with all the amendments adopted by parliament on this subject, i have voted in favour of the report, because the creation of the european energy union is a good goal for the future.
european energy policy must ensure the functioning of the energy market and the security of energy supply, as well as promoting energy efficiency.
the development of renewable forms of energy and the interconnection of energy networks should be encouraged.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on how the european electricity grid should be made compliant by 2020. in its report, parliament notes that electricity interconnections are one of the key conditions for achieving our climate change objectives, including the eu's ambition to become a leader in renewable energy, and to improve the eu's geopolitical position by ensuring greater energy security and independence and reducing energy isolation, and will reduce the potential for disruption of energy supply.
the increased capacity of the european grid will allow the development of a strategy that will lead to a more flexible and resilient grid, better prepared for a wide range of changes and disruptions, and will enable the efficient integration of more and more renewable energy into the european grid.
the interconnection of electricity markets is essential to ensure security of energy supply.
the electricity grids will be able to better manage the increasing amount of energy from renewable sources.
one of the objectives of the cfp reform implemented in 2013 was to achieve the highest sustainable yield.
the communication recalls that one of the objectives of the common fisheries policy is to restore and maintain populations of harvested species at levels which can ensure the maximum sustainable yield, while respecting an ecosystem- and selectivity-based approach, and that technical measures and multiannual plans are one of the main means of achieving these objectives.
parliament called for a review of the technical measures to achieve the objectives of the cfp, for improved selectivity, for the minimisation of discharges and the environmental impact of fishing, for the simplification of the current rules and for the extension of the scientific basis.
it is necessary to prohibit the use of explosive and toxic substances and to encourage the wider use of innovative fishing gear that increases selectivity and reduces environmental impact.
the governing council will also discuss the energy union, the digital single market and the capital markets union.
the chairperson of the eba was appointed by the supervisory board of the eba in 2011 following an open selection procedure for a term of five years, renewable once with the consent of the european parliament.
the chairperson of esma was appointed by the supervisory board of esma in 2011, following an open selection procedure, for a term of five years, renewable once with the consent of the european parliament.
the first commission proposal omits many of the most problematic invasive alien species, while it includes some species that are unlikely to have a significant negative impact on biodiversity, ecosystem functions, human health or the economy, or for which the measures to be applied would incur disproportionate costs.
the initial list of the commission has been criticised by several competent national authorities, stakeholders and the general public to such an extent that these stakeholders now have serious doubts about the effectiveness of the future isr regulation, mainly due to the fact that many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not included in that list, while some species are included that are unlikely to have a significant negative impact on biodiversity, ecosystem functions, human health or the economy, or for which the measures to be applied would incur disproportionate costs.
it is necessary to seek to identify common interests and to address jointly many global issues such as global and regional security, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, cybersecurity, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development.
with this report, amendments and compromises were adopted on human rights, the state of play in tibet and taiwan, freedom of expression, religious liberty, minorities protection or environmental threats.
the growing challenges of urbanization and rapid population growth, demographic change, the prevalence and intensity of natural disasters, the situation of the environment, degradation, desertification, climate change, various long-term and simultaneous conflicts affecting the region, resource scarcity, as well as poverty, inequality, migration, displacement and instability, have greatly increased the need for humanitarian response worldwide.
‒ the decline in capacity and jobs in the european steel industry is driven by a decline in demand demand in 2014 was 40 million tonnes lower than in 2007. i agree that the eu steel and aluminium sector needs to be modernised with a view to energy efficiency and environmental sustainability.
it is important to ensure that industrial policy has the tools and resources needed to make a successful transition to low-carbon technologies, which will not be possible without strategic control of the base metals industry.
‒ the i voted in favour of this report because it is a report which parliament is putting forward for the creation of a sustainable european industry in the base metals sector.
the decrease in capacity and employment in the european steel industry is driven by a decrease in demand in 2014 demand was 40 million tonnes lower than in 2007. the capacity has changed to the extent that, once demand recovers, europe will suffer from a historic trade deficit, which will lead to dependency and loss of industrial know-how, with implications for downstream sectors such as automotive, construction and low-carbon technologies.
parliament therefore calls for industrial policy to be equipped with the tools and resources needed to make a successful transition to low-carbon technologies.
‒ my vote on report on developing a sustainable european industry of base metals was decided by the fact that the report is talking about border carbon adjustment, which would only add more confusion to an already very difficult and heated discussion.
the european precious metals industry is in a race against time to restore global competitiveness and investment opportunities in europe, addressing the social and environmental challenges facing the sector, which must be addressed in a way that continues to set a global example for corporate social and environmental responsibility.
the agreement covers areas of cooperation such as the development of principles, norms and standards, raw materials, migration, the fight against organised crime and corruption, industrial policy, smes, tourism, energy, education and culture, environment, climate change and natural resources, agriculture, health, civil society, modernisation of the state and public administration.
the agreement defines a future broad-based relationship with a view to enhancing further cooperation and overcoming global and regional challenges, such as good governance and the fight against corruption, economic and social progress under the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, and the fight against terrorism.
this agreement defines a future broad-based relationship with a view to enhancing further cooperation and overcoming global and regional challenges, such as good governance and the fight against corruption, economic and social progress in accordance with the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction, and the fight against terrorism.
the agreement defines the future relations in a broad spectrum, to further enhance the cooperation on global and regional challenges: good governance, the fight against corruption, economic and social progress taking into account the principle of sustainable development, disarmament and weapons of mass destruction.
parliament therefore called on the eu and its member states to make greater efforts to ensure that human rights and democratic values are regarded as the most important aspect of their relations with the wider world, and called for the eu to take appropriate measures, including in the areas of trade, energy or security relations, when there are serious human rights violations in third countries, especially when the country is ruled by authoritarian regimes.
in its report, parliament noted that the global security environment in the eu's neighbourhood had changed substantially, particularly in the eu's southern and eastern neighbourhood.
in its report, parliament noted that the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons poses a serious threat to peace and security, human rights and sustainable development, with one person killed every minute somewhere in the world as a result of armed violence and 15 new weapons being produced.
‒ access to biological material is essential to stimulate innovation and the production of new varieties, to ensure global food security and to combat climate change.
access to biological material, including plant traits, is essential to stimulate innovation and the production of new varieties, to ensure global food security, to combat climate change and to prevent monopolies in the plant breeding sector, while creating more opportunities for smes.
‒ virunga national park, located in north kivu and eastern provinces of the drc, bordering rwanda and uganda, is africa's oldest national park and a unesco world heritage site, known worldwide for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, making it the most biodiverse park in africa.
at the same time, oil fever could have serious social and environmental destabilising effects, given the massive poverty, instability, poor governance and regional insecurity.
i support calls on the commission and the member states to ensure the integrity of the park's territory, for example by increasing their commitments to finance the preservation of sustainable cultural heritage and sustainable economic development and diversification in the surrounding region.
virunga national park (vnp), located in north kivu and eastern provinces of the drc bordering rwanda and uganda, is africa's oldest national park and a unesco world heritage site, known worldwide for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, making it the most biodiverse park in africa.
the commission notes that the goc has not provided any evidence that the soco exploration licence is in line with the environmental legislation of the drc.