mr president, madam president of the council, first i think the latvian presidency needs a chapter on climate change.
the other big topic should be energy.
with russia we tend to have a conflicting relationship, so we need to review our energy policies.
however, we have a kind of hypocrisy here: everyone is calling for an energy union but every government is saying ‘do not interfere in my national energy mix’.
the only way to overcome this blockage is a new style of governance in the energy field, and that new style of governance is regional cooperation on energy.
latvia has benefited, madam president of the council, from being involved in the eu’s baltic energy market interconnection plan programme, in which we helped you in the baltic regional market to get more gas pipelines and more electricity lines, and i think that, during your presidency, you should promote this model of regional energy governance, because we need this for south-east europe too.
we are in a complete political vacuum after nabucco and south stream, so regional energy governance is the new form of governance which we need.
the forthcoming public consultation process on post-cotonou would be an opportunity to thoroughly analyse the failure and success of the current agreement in terms of its effects on the sustainable, social and economic development of the acp countries.
- mr president, the decision taken by the commission on the energy union a few hours ago brings an important message to every european household and business: the message that europe is serious about the fundamental energy transition – an energy transition that is just and fair and that will deliver affordable, secure, competitive and sustainable energy to all.
energy is indispensable.
it is the lifeblood of our citizens’ livelihoods and of our economy, yet we have all grown used to paying high energy bills as if it were a fact of life.
we have got used to the current threats to our energy supply in winter, and all of us have got used to the threats of global climate change.
today we are taking a big step towards an energy market that is economically sustainable, socially inclusive and environmentally friendly: an energy market that is integrated, interconnected, resilient and secure.
it is a triple-win strategy, because it will benefit citizens, businesses and the environment.
let me highlight four main characteristics of the energy union.
first, the energy union, like the european project itself, is based on trust and solidarity.
it is time we also applied the same principle in our energy markets.
second, the energy union should deliver a free flow of energy across europe as if it were a fifth freedom.
the strategy we have adopted is the most ambitious european energy project since the european coal and steel community.
we will integrate the 28 european energy markets into one.
we will come forward with new legislation to strengthen the european regulatory framework, a necessity if we want to continue to increase cross-border energy flows.
we will speed up critical infrastructure projects and monitor them much better because, without this hardware, we will have an internal energy market only on paper.
we will encourage and assist member states to phase out uncoordinated national policies that distort the functioning of the market, and we will produce, every two years, a report on how energy prices are composed, creating more transparency and a better functioning of the market.
energy prices are a real issue for our consumers but equally for the competitiveness of our industry.
thirdly, the energy union puts energy efficiency first.
we have to fundamentally rethink energy efficiency and treat it as an energy source in its own right.
we will come forward with new legislation on electricity market design, and this will ensure that energy efficiency can compete on equal terms with generation capacity.
we will promote better access to financing instruments for energy efficiency in the transport and building sectors, notably at local level, and we will encourage member states to give energy efficiency primary consideration in their own policies.
fourthly, the energy union will make our energy system fit for the future – fit for a low-carbon and sustainable economy, an energy system that is driven by renewable sources and in which citizens, cooperatives and local communities can play a much more active role.
i am convinced that, as a world leader once said, the nation that leads the world in creating new energy sources will lead the 21st-century global economy.
we will better focus our research and innovation policy like storage and electromobility, and we will ensure better coordination between member states and the eu’s innovation programmes and financing schemes, not only because it sustains our climate policy – the most ambitious worldwide – but also because it offers great growth opportunities for our industry and for job creation here in europe.
that is why today we adopted a concrete plan with 15 action points that translate the energy union into concrete deliverables.
this work has directly involved 14 commissioners, from energy and transport to research and the digital agenda.
as the vice-president in charge of this energy union project, i will continue to work, under the guidance of president juncker, with all of them and make sure that all parts of the commission work together.
i will therefore start developing without delay the robust governance framework that the energy union needs in order to deliver on its promises.
i can already announce that, building on all the expertise we have in the house, the dgs and the joint research centre, i intend to present, before the end of this year, the first edition of the annual state of the energy union.
there is no time to waste.
i can promise you the existing legislation on renewables, on energy efficiency, is more ambitious than what you have in your paper.
you have done something fundamentally wrong: you suggest to citizens in europe that our energy security will be better by concluding contracts with the nice people who lead turkmenistan, azerbaijan, iran and kurdistan.
what is much more promising would be to deliver what parliament’s position is: 40% energy efficiency, binding.
why are you not making an alliance with us to create a new economy around energy efficiency, where cities and citizens play a real role?
citizens are real people who want to democratically participate, and in that sense i hope that this day is the beginning of a one-year debate on energy policy in europe.
as a former rapporteur on the renewable energy directive, i am naturally interested in what has just come out.
seven percent is high, probably too high, okay, but... secondly, we need a methodology to balance the total carbon footprint of biofuels.
we share a vision of a global partnership to eradicate poverty, share prosperity and foster sustainable development while defending human rights, promoting gender equality and social cohesion, and reducing inequalities.
as i have said to parliament before, the commission will help encourage member states to reach an agreement on an ambitious package of measures for the implementation of the sustainable development agenda, including on the oda commitment.
furthermore, we note the call to step up international efforts to find additional climate finance.
mobilising more finance from all sources – public and private – to tackle climate change is, of course, a priority.
but, we should be cautious about artificially dividing financing for climate and other development-related activities.
some climate change interventions, for instance, will meet the oda definition.
it is therefore important that synergies across various sustainable development objectives can be maximised to ensure that available resources can deliver the maximum impact.
whilst finding sustainable debt solutions is highly important, the post-2015 negotiations should avoid pre-empting or duplicating ongoing work on sovereign debt restructuring in the context of other fora, notably the imf.
this quality must meet indicators of efficiency, relevance and also sustainability in order to meet, in fact, the method invented by the oecd in this field.
madam president, we have here an alliance which stretches from the ecr to gue; i think this is relatively unique when discussing energy matters.
it is always less expensive to organise an energy system in 28 countries than in one country.
there will be no investment in nuclear and coal, but in energy efficiency.
i have personally fought for a $50 billion fund for energy efficiency.
it is responsible for providing technical assistance to cities and private investors in europe on energy efficiency and for advancing energy efficiency investments.
why are we making progress on climate policy?
we also want to see that the waste framework law is not weakened by this holistic rhetoric.
the planned cooperation on laws, standards and norms is also likely to weaken the better european standards on the environment, animal welfare, consumer protection, labour law and safety at work.
as a member of parliament who tries to put the protection of citizens, the environment and workers at the forefront of his work, i do not want and have no desire to make an extra round with american and through the back door with european companies before any european legislation.
our aim is to achieve sustainable growth so as to allow upward social convergence and to bring concrete results to the european citizens.
the environmental goods and services sector has been one of europe’s success stories in the last decade and a half.
it addresses a number of pertinent issues, like a call for creating the conditions for a fair transition to quality and sustainable jobs, addressing the skills gaps and mismatches, full implementation of environmental legislation and enhancing participation of workers in the transition.
my efforts, as well as those of my fellow commissioners, in respect of the circular economy package or the energy union have the potential to enrich the implementation of the green employment initiative.
i also think of the challenges in the field of security or in the field of sustainable development.
the energy union, mr president, must enable us to strengthen security of supply and promote the energy transition through the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors, which are essential drivers of green and sustainable growth, creating wealth and jobs.
we remain committed to the triptych of fiscal consolidation, investment-led growth and structural reforms that have a positive impact on sustainable and balanced growth.
what is meant by sustainable and balanced growth is the fight against fraud and tax evasion!
the sixth priority of the presidency will be a sustainable development approach.
we often talk about fiscal and social dumping, but there is also a real international environmental dumping today.
sustainable economic growth and service to the citizen go hand in hand with the highest environmental ambition.
the presidency will seek to accelerate the transition to a green economy with low greenhouse gas emissions by creating the necessary dynamics for the emergence of a safe and sustainable society.
it will also promote an innovative, circular and competitive economy, which is energy efficient, preserves biodiversity and natural resources, avoids waste and promotes recycling at the lowest cost.
this essential ambition will guide the presidency in the legislative files currently under way, such as those relating to air quality or the reduction of co2 emissions.
the requirement of sustainability will also be at the heart of the presidency's action in preparation for the various international events that will dominate the global agenda, be it the summit in new york or the cop 21 in paris.
we will focus in particular on the issue of climate finance.
we attach particular importance to the adoption of the sustainable development goals.
i would like to thank the latvian presidency for making it possible for the investment plan proposed by the commission to start its work and i would encourage the luxembourg presidency to speed up all the work, particularly with regard to the third part of the investment plan, which is to improve the general environment in which our businesses must operate and in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, which account for more than 90% of the economic activity in the european union.
i would like to encourage the luxembourg presidency to launch the energy union, the capital markets union and the digital european union.
in the same spirit, i would encourage the luxembourg presidency to redouble its efforts to make the paris climate conference at the end of the year a success.
i could talk about the need for reform of data protection legislation, we could talk about pnr - as we say in plain english - about the climate negotiations, which the president of the commission has just mentioned, as has the prime minister, or about the free trade agreement we will have with the united states in due course, which worries our citizens.
i do not hide from you our satisfaction at being able to see our own, my group's, objectives, including the promotion of growth, the opening up of the markets of the future, the implementation of the digital single market, not to mention the obligation to succeed in the fight against climate change and the addis ababa conference on financing for development.
i see four priorities: climate, refugees, fair tax policy, greece.
climate: there is no negotiating with nature.
either we respect nature's limits -- the climate is two degrees or less -- or nature is going to get out of control, as the heat waves in india, pakistan and now europe are showing.
this was also the case in the environment committee, and i am also very, very saddened by the approach of the conservatives, the ppe and the ecr, who are here, as it were, playing to the hearts of the corporations and demanding that water management be liberalized and privatised in europe too, and that water be included in ttip, tisa, ceta - that is, in the international trade agreements - with the aim of reducing the environmental impact of water.
we have known the problems and challenges for some time, and to make the areas of security, social affairs, environment and competition a success, we do not need new laws, but better and, above all, harmonious, joint implementation of the laws and increased controls.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commissioner, the energy union can only work if each country does not fight to the last millimetre for its national energy mix.
it is also important - and right - that renewable energy and energy efficiency are given a central place, both now through the labelling directive and in market design.
and we need to organize a flexible electricity market around renewable energy, wind and solar.
we could even call it a provocation which threatens the unity of the european energy union and the eu’s neighbourhood policy.
russia’s and gazprom’s strategy is clear: cutting off ukraine from the energy transport network, with all the geopolitical and economic consequences that implies; hurting the central and eastern european countries and their citizens’ economies by making gas deliveries more difficult and more expensive; and creating a more dominant position, thus undermining competition.
this is against the interest of the european energy union, against european solidarity and against our geopolitical interest in ukraine.
i am deeply sorry, but if this project does not make it on to the agenda of a forthcoming european council then we should forget about the european energy union.
madam president, we will need to mobilise 100 billion dollars by 2020 for developing countries, just to fight climate change.
and yes, especially to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
now, when we come to vote, we see the right saying, "yes, maybe something can be done about climate change", but they don't want us to be specific about the instruments.
i say we need to move towards renewable energy and energy efficiency, not just for the climate, but also to make us less dependent on mr putin and to create jobs in europe.
we also have a moral obligation to make the right of patients to access treatment worldwide a principle of sustainable political action.
there are also whole beaches where policy has to take responsibility, and i hope that our committee on the environment and health, together with the committee on development, can find, or at least initiate, a beginning to answer this question, which i admit is a difficult one.
– mr president, nine months ago we had a debate in this plenary when i was here to present the energy union strategy with a forward-looking climate policy which had just been adopted by the commission.
in the commission this was very important collective work, involving 14 commissioners on the energy union project team.
last week, we added a new instrument to our energy toolbox: the state of the energy union report.
this will allow you – and us – to keep up the momentum and to have a debate every year about all the dimensions of the energy union.
as co-legislator, you will have to set the legislative framework for the energy union and you can carry the debate into your capitals, cities and regions, and to the citizens in your constituencies.
as you know very well, their support for the energy union will be decisive.
let me highlight four key messages that need political attention in 2016. the first is to highlight the fact that the eu must remain the leader in the transition to a low-carbon society.
the emissions trading system (ets) reform and the new electricity market design must give the right signals for clean and energy—efficient technologies.
we will present legislation to ensure that we reach the 2030 targets on renewables and energy efficiency, the latter having in mind an eu level of 30%.
in parallel, we will further develop our financing instruments, making them more suitable for financing needs at the local level and for energy efficiency needs in the building sector.
my second main message is to highlight the fact that, if we want this fundamental energy transition to be successful, it has to be socially fair and consumer centred.
but i am also convinced that in 2016 we should pay particular attention to the increasing numbers of the energy poor.
when we review our legislation next year, we should make sure that the interests of energy-poor consumers are duly taken into account.
we have to keep pushing for the diversification of energy sources, routes and suppliers, especially through an ambitious liquefied natural gas (lng) strategy which we will present in february.
i am glad that we have also adopted the second projects of common interest (pci) list – a list that is more focused, moving from 248 to 195 projects of common interest, and much better aligned to the core objectives of the energy union.
let me also say a word about nord stream 3 and 4. i know this is a subject of huge interest and concern to this house, as reflected in president buzek’s letter sent to commissioner arias cañete and me two weeks ago on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the eu will only support infrastructure projects that are in line with the core principles of the energy union, including the eu’s energy security strategy.
diversification of energy sources, suppliers and routes is crucial for ensuring secure and resilient supplies to european union citizens and companies.
with this state of the energy union, we are laying the first building blocks of a ‘governance mechanism’ that will bring more transparency and predictability to investors and businesses.
the low-carbon and energy-efficient technologies are here, but they need investment.
the first will be the state of the energy union report with its policy conclusions and country fact sheets, all of which we will further develop in the coming years.
in that way we will keep implementation of the energy union under close scrutiny.
the second pillar will be represented by national energy and climate plans with biannual progress reports, covering all five dimensions, covering the 2021—2030 period, and promoting regional cooperation between member states.
in all this, we will ensure that this parliament will play its full part in making the energy union happen.
so i think that i can say that we have got off to a good start in 2015, but my promise to you today is that 2016 will be the energy union’s ‘year of delivery’.
i will identify this on three points: one is energy efficiency.
“a binding 30% objective for energy efficiency by 2030 is, to me,” said jean-claude juncker last year “the minimum if we want to be credible and forward-looking”.
on energy efficiency, what is the situation in the world?
but if nord stream goes ahead, then we will weaken ukraine and make eastern europe so fragile that we will completely discredit the energy union.
do we need another energy crisis before europe gets its act together?
the commission is active now in the crisis on migration, but unambitious when it comes to energy union.
you say that energy costs are high in europe.
frankly, neither climate policy nor the general electricity prices in europe are a problem today for the steel industry.
so we should stop blaming the european climate and energy policy.
the dismantling of schengen will not bring us any closer to those who are already here and who are plunging us into a climate of insecurity.
mr president, the fight against poverty, aid to minorities in difficulty, the fight against political instability, the role of climate change in the displacement of populations - how many times have we not made these observations?
i would like to make one comment on the many amendments on the energy union.
but in any case he did a good job in paris with the luxembourg minister for the environment, and i want to thank him for that.
if we want to move forward with the energy union, we will either argue all the time about things like coal, nuclear, shale gas, or we will try to agree on five no regrets together.
energy efficiency: we should go further.
and, commissioner, perhaps you can add something to this later: it is important that the commission's models 27, 30, 33, 35 but also 40% of energy efficiency is applied to jobs in europe, reduction of energy imports, competitiveness and climate protection.
the second, renewable energy: right, the mood in paris is going up, more than 100 multinational companies are saying they want 100% renewable energy.
2030 must not be a brake on 100% renewable energy, but a lever in that direction.
fourthly, functioning markets: the ets does not function as well as it used to, and neither do the energy markets.
and fifthly, we need a common foreign energy policy, 29 votes in one direction.
we need a strategy for poland to help poland move more towards efficiency and renewable energy.
blue-card question.– i think that you are talking a lot of nonsense here, especially when you blame europe for the high energy prices in the uk.
scandinavia has five, six, eight times more renewables and more climate policy than the uk, so if there is anybody to blame for the high prices, it is london, not brussels.
so all indcs will have to be raised in ambition on climate mitigation in 2018-19, which also means that all the modelling the commission did back in 2013 is obsolete – 40/27/27 is not good enough, and it is not based on good enough modelling to achieve 1.5°c.
this morning we voted, as a way out of this dilemma, on a model as the basis for all the legislation next year, including non-ets – 27/30/33/35/40 energy efficiency – and that will show you that europe can be more ambitious on climate change, while doing something for jobs in europe and for european competitivity.
you all need to understand that the eu commission was tricked and manipulated in 2013 and for the impact assessment of january 2014. we can do more in europe on energy efficiency, we can do more in europe on renewable energy.
if we do 30:30%, we automatically get to 45%, if we do 33:33, we get to 50% greenhouse gas emissions.
it is the commission's duty now to provide all eu institutions with objective information on the impact of such scenarios on jobs, competitiveness and the climate.