the new rules will allow member states to ban gmo crops for a variety of reasons, such as environmental, urban, social and economic, as well as to prevent accidental contamination of gmos in other products and for agricultural policy purposes.
when we ask ourselves what could be the strongest instrument in, say, making transparent progress on ttip which is important not only from a geopolitical point of view and for the development of western values, but also for economic growth on both sides of the atlantic, and of course in europe it will, i think, create more sustainable growth in europe, if it is a successful process, than the strategic investment plan perhaps necessary but a bit ad hoc which was approved yesterday by the commission.
the transport, energy and proactive action of the european union in seeking new directions for cooperation are also crucial.
but there's also external security, where perhaps the biggest factor right now is energy security.
this european energy union must be established.
we stand out as the world's largest energy importer - more than half of our energy is bought from outside.
so we have to break our huge dependence on energy imports.
and the solution, i think, is this energy union that we're proposing here.
in particular, i would like to emphasise that the interconnection directly established between member states in both electricity and gas networks will be one that will allow member states to break their dependence on a single source of imports, and will also allow for greater use of renewable energy resources.
so by supporting the creation of this energy union, we will reduce our dependence on imported energy, and we will reduce the amount of money we pay mr. putin every day to actually wage war against all of us.
despite the growth of the european economy as a whole, major projects related to transport infrastructure, sustainable energy production or distribution, social infrastructure such as housing or hospitals, the introduction of new technologies and the growth of smes are often underfunded.
at the same time, the elimination of discrimination is also important for ensuring sustainable social and economic development, and therefore it is essential to effectively unlock the potential of every citizen, regardless of gender.
competition is important for industry and the business environment, as well as for consumers.
it is important that the european union's competition policy does not allow for a monopolistic business environment where companies exploit a dominant position for abusive purposes.
i hope that we will also ask latvia to use the support provided by this fund to develop projects in the fields of research, innovation, energy efficiency and other sectors.
the single market in transport and energy, which is of such importance for latvia, has not yet been established.
that is why we need common gas purchasing in the european energy union.
this raises concerns that the reduction in co2 emissions may not be as significant as it would be if these agricultural lands were replaced by food or forestry.
in contrast, second generation biofuels are produced from other sources, such as waste.
this gives first generation biofuel producers time to switch to second generation biofuel production in order to balance the return on investment with environmental protection.
this inefficient management has resulted in a rapid increase in waste.
this creates significant environmental problems, as the degradation of this material in nature takes many decades and irreversibly pollutes the environment.
i believe that this directive on reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic bags is a necessary step in protecting our environment, ensuring a more sustainable and healthier ecosystem for the people of the european union and reducing waste of resources.
it pollutes the environment and harms it for decades.
most of these bags are used for only a few minutes, but they can remain in the environment for hundreds of years, posing a serious threat to fish and birds.
the single-use plastic products are the most environmentally damaging, with 8 billion plastic bags being thrown away each year, negatively impacting the ecosystem.
in my view, this strategy as a whole directly underlines the very important point that the eu needs to focus on forest management that ensures sustainable and efficient use of resources.
we need to ensure that europe is competitive in virtually all areas of global markets - that is, in the digital field, energy, industry, the services sector, including the financial sector.
‒ sustainable development is the key to people's well-being, which is why i voted on the development finance report at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg.
the report calls for the development of a strong cooperation and cooperation in terms of financing, stressing that without international cooperation the objective of sustainable development will not be achieved.
the report comes at a very important time, as this is the year in which the updated sustainable development goals and the agreement on global action on climate change will be adopted.
for development to be truly high-level and for europe and the world to be brought closer to the sustainable development goals, fiscal cooperation and order at the global level is, in my view, very important.
the report emphasises the growth potential of the circular and green economy, as well as the importance of resource efficiency and creating a friendly environment for new business creation.
the register will help to identify who pays taxes and where, and will promote fair competition and thus improve the investment climate in the member states.
i believe that this legislative act will contribute to a faster handling of cross-border insolvency cases and to an overall improvement of the business environment.
the undeniable issues of climate change are very weighty.
but when we think about energy, we must not forget energy security, which is just as important to us as it is to europe.
let us remember the basic fact that in the european union we are dependent on imported energy.
the main country from which we import energy is russia.
what i think the european union should do at this meeting is to emphasize the need for the g7 countries to work together directly on energy security.
it would be in europe's interest to see these export restrictions lifted in the united states so that europe can import natural gas, for example, not only from russia but also from the united states, thereby jointly increasing its energy security.
so when we think about energy issues, of course, climate change -- this issue is very weighty.
but just as important - and this should also be the focus of the g7 meeting - are the energy security issues where we need to work together.
the technology and digital environment, and the offerings it provides, are evolving at a tremendous rate, but the legislation and regulations in this sector are not keeping pace with these changes.
those rules should take into account the innovative online environment and the different means of distribution that serve the interests of consumers and also support artists and authors by encouraging authors to engage in creative innovation and further improve the quality of content.
we all know that to reduce the threat of global warming, we need to reduce our carbon emissions.
if we look at the world as a whole, in 2007, the g8 estimated that we would have to reduce co2 emissions by 50% to half by 2050, but now the european union is about a tenth of all global emissions, about 10 to 12%, not more, which means that even if we go to zero in europe, if we have no emissions, we still won't reach that 50% target.
we need to get the big economies that have a lot of waste, whether it's the united states, whether it's china, to finally sign these protocols and also start reducing their waste, because if we in europe take all the burden of this on our shoulders, not only will we not achieve the common goals because we don't have that much of that waste, we will continue to weigh on the european economy in the global competition.
we know that we import more than half of all the energy we consume, and that's increasing every year.
in the report drawn up by parliament, i think it is quite clear (and i ask the commission to take it into account when it comes to the legislation in question): to connect networks to gas, electricity, diversify sources, increase energy efficiency, make greater use of domestic resources and learn to speak with one voice.
we need the energy union more than ever.
more than half of europe's energy needs are imported.
the putin regime is known to use energy issues to exert political pressure on its customers.
that is why we in the european union need a diversification of energy resources.
the construction of interconnectors is urgently needed to break the energy isolation of certain countries, including my own country, latvia.
diversification of energy sources is also important.
an efficient energy and security policy will be in everyone's interest.
clearly, climate change is happening and countries need to agree on measures to mitigate its negative effects.
the main challenge is to reduce co2 emissions from the greenhouse effect.
countries that have committed to a specific emissions reduction target have ratified the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol.
unfortunately, not all countries have done so, such as the united states, which is one of the biggest producers of waste.
the european union emits only about 10% of all global co2 emissions.
the eu countries alone will not prevent negative climate change, so the eu must put pressure on other countries around the world to set the same goals as we do, because the fight against climate change is a shared responsibility.
‒ the kyoto protocol, which regulates emissions of greenhouse gases, is among the most important documents in the world.
i voted today, along with my colleagues (584 members in total), in favour of the amendment to the protocol which will improve the situation of global warming on our planet.
‒ iceland's participation in the second stage of the kyoto protocol implementations will benefit the global state of the atmosphere and the reduction of carbon monoxide emissions.
‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary in strasbourg on a european energy security strategy, which the commission should take into account when drafting legislation in this area.
the report's objective and main focus was to end the european union's energy dependence on russia, which was defined as an unreliable trading partner.
the report also stresses the need to use the energy resources available in the member states and to invest in energy savings.
unfortunately, the left in the european parliament chose to act destructively and tabled a huge number of amendments, which lost the main thrust of the report - the achievement of energy security.
‒ the basic idea was a good one: to ensure stability in the eu's energy performance in the face of constantly growing energy consumption.
many positive ingredients: green energy, supplies that will bring prices down for eu consumers... but, as is often the case, they ended up adding expressions relating to anti-russian policy, such as defining russia as an unstable supplier of energy resources to the eu (i voted against that amendment).
i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on a european energy security strategy.
although the european union has made progress in strengthening its energy security, europe still imports most of its energy resources.
moreover, exporting countries are often located in geopolitically unstable regions or energy markets are used for politically motivated purposes.
i believe that energy security also implies political independence.
i therefore support a resolution which promotes this kind of independence, both by optimising energy consumption in general and by emphasising the importance and availability of renewable energy sources, thus implementing a sustainable energy policy and european economic development.
at the same time, it is important to ensure that energy savings are actually linked to the legislation in place and not due to the economic pace and thus the decline in energy demand in europe.
i would like to point out that despite the vote in favour, in solidarity with the other members of the ecr group, i am cautious about the co2 emissions deduction.
i voted in favour because i believe that turkey has an important role to play as a strategic partner of the eu in the field of eu energy security and also as a nato member.
secondly, we must also ensure that there is no danger for energy pipelines, as has been seen, for instance, also in the baltic region.
for example, the fight against illegal immigration, environmental projects, business-citizen cooperation.
it is the same for data protection issues and also in other fields of the single market, like the railway package in the transport sector, and moves towards the energy union.
over the past six months, many priorities have been in the spotlight: the european fund for strategic investments, energy policy, the data protection regulation, the eastern partnership, roaming charges, immigration issues.
madam president, ttip is a unique chance to proactively shape european sustainable economic development and increase our geopolitical stability by shaping our continents – the united states and europe – which are drifting apart.
i believe this report is very important because public-private partnerships can benefit the least developed countries, because ppps are an effective way to use european funds and to achieve other sustainable development goals.
and the main condition of energy policy in the united states is to ensure that prices are as low as possible, whereas for us in europe our energy goal is to ensure that we emit as little co2 as possible.
unfortunately, reducing co2 emissions has often meant higher energy prices, which makes it difficult for our industry to compete, including with the united states, because they simply have lower prices.
so i have no doubt, colleagues, that it is important, and science has proven that humanity as such needs to reduce co2 emissions to reduce global warming.
but we as politicians also have to think responsibly about the competitiveness of our european industry, because in order to reduce co2 we don't accidentally raise energy prices so high that our industry becomes uncompetitive.
cooperation on the ecological issue can we really expect our strong borders to protect us from an ecological disaster in a neighbouring country?
it is important that this agreement creates an efficient, competitive economic environment and removes barriers to trade.
the european parliament also calls for the preservation of europe's high standards of environmental, food and data protection.
i supported this very important document because, in my view, the market stability mechanism is one of the most important instruments in climate change policy.
this will help to achieve the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
our vote, ladies and gentlemen, is very important and it sends a positive signal ahead of the december talks on climate change in paris.
this strategy and the member states' guidelines must be sustainable and able to keep pace with economic developments.
this is a welcome development, but it is important not to forget the role of industry in promoting growth and sustainable employment.
some regions in the eu are facing more challenges than others because of the geographical concentration of energy- and resource-intensive and polluting industries, or of higher levels of poverty or unemployment.
time is short, and it takes courage and energy to activate this process.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i would like to acknowledge the active role of the high representative of the european union, ms mogerini, in trying to revive this negotiating process and to encourage her to continue to support the middle east peace process with equal energy and determination.
in fact, what we have to do, ladies and gentlemen, with the creation of this energy union - and i thank the commission for the first four proposals which have now been put forward - is to walk along this line without turning to the right or to the left.
in this case, 'right, left' would mean that on the one hand we have to balance the need to promote the competitiveness of the european union - prices, energy prices and so on - and on the other hand we have to think about reducing co2 emissions.
ladies and gentlemen, this is a major challenge for us, but the energy union is not only about, as they say, these internal considerations - competitiveness, co2 emissions - but also external considerations.
so what's happening to our energy security?
and what makes me fearful, what makes my group fearful, is that the news recently came out that gazprom had reached an agreement with several large european union energy companies to expand what is called nord stream 2 which would actually expand, deepen europe's dependence on one supplier.
‒ in its resolution on the commission's 2016 work programme, the european parliament gives the european commission a mandate for the work to be done in 2016. the resolution highlights many points of importance to latvia, such as the geopolitical need to diversify energy supplies and the european commission's proposal for a revised natural gas supply regulation.
this has also been the case in the automotive industry, where we have imposed increasingly stringent requirements over the years to reduce co2 and harmful emissions, especially nox.
because it is important that once we have established environmental requirements, that they are actually met.
however, it is also quite obvious that the benefits are accompanied by emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust during the process.
and the problem is that up to now, there have actually been two directives in the european union that apply to this issue: the small combustion plant directive, the so-called ecodesign directive, and the large combustion plant directive, the so-called industrial emissions directive.
‒ i voted in the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg on the proposal for a directive on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants.
legislation already regulates large co2 emitters, but the installations covered by this directive also generate a significant share of pollution and it is therefore only justified to create a more level playing field for all.
however, differences in climate regulation between the eu and the rest of the world should not be overlooked.
as a result, there is a risk that european industry will shift production to jurisdictions with lower climate requirements and thus lower costs.
directly in the energy sector, directly from one supplier russia.
this solution is called the european energy union, and it has three main pillars.
this nord stream ii project is in fact the complete opposite of our stated objectives for the energy union.
if we take into account the fact that by doubling the capacity of nord stream, russia will effectively be able to cut off ukraine as a transit country ukraine, which we as europe are also trying to push economically, and it would lose tremendous funds, not to mention its energy security, this project should be stopped.
and here we have to give the european commission the tools to investigate the content of this agreement, directly by allowing access to corporate contracts between large strategic companies with energy suppliers in third countries, in this case gazprom.
the aim is to create a favourable environment for the creation of new and innovative means of payment in the future.
five years ago, the hungarians suffered the worst industrial and environmental disaster in their country's history.
there is no doubt that human activities are adversely affecting the climate, that we are contributing to global warming.
think about the title of this report, the international climate agreement in paris.
it's very important for us in paris to get the rest of the world, especially the united states, china and india, to follow suit, because they are the main environmental polluters, the natural polluters that contribute to this co2 emissions and global warming.
so if we don't get people to follow us to understand the consequences, europe may actually reduce its competitiveness by imposing a need for its industry to reduce waste.
global climate change, i.e.
although there are already a number of international documents in the world on national efforts to have a positive impact on climate change, the kyoto protocol being one of the best known, the actions currently being implemented cannot be classified as truly effective.
the greenhouse effect, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the increase in the share of renewable energy production and use and the development of technology all indicate that we must think about climate change.
first, we are clearly and explicitly enshrining the principles of net neutrality in order to provide a safe investment environment for service providers.
this means a safe environment for service providers to invest in the future.
‒ one of the main and primary objectives and challenges of the european union has always been to create a genuine single market where people, goods and services can flow freely across the internal borders of the european union, thus ensuring both the sustainability and competitiveness of industry and the possibility of providing citizens with the widest possible choice and lower prices.
secondly, this regulation also provides for the principle of net neutrality, which requires that internet service providers treat all types of content equally without discrimination and blocking for commercial purposes, and will encourage providers of a secure environment to invest in the future.
i consider the introduction of genetically modified food to be a step in the right direction, as the impact of these products on human health and the environment is still not fully understood.
europe 2020 is closely linked to cohesion policy, as it focuses on objectives such as employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability, education and the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
in particular, it is regrettable that volkswagen has behaved unfairly in the us market in the emissions tests for diesel engines.
given that different types of vehicles are among the main factors affecting public health and the climate, productive and regular cooperation between colleagues is of great importance, in particular cooperation between the responsible member states and the institutions of the european union in terms of exchanging information and initiating quality standards.
but secondly, competitiveness, job creation, regional development, sustainable growth and the promotion of security - these are by far the most important areas of action for the european union - occupy a prominent place in the new budget.
and not just carbon dioxide, but also the negative impact on human health and the economy.
this means that the proper development of tourism, investment, innovation, exchange of expertise, renovation of cultural and historical sites and, of course, environmental protection - all these aspects are very important and cannot be ignored in any case.
the epp group naturally supports the commission's vision of an energy union.
this is our attempt to create a truly free market, to increase competition in energy across the european union, to reduce our dependence on imports, to reduce co2 emissions and to increase our energy security, and therefore security of supply.
firstly, commissioner, you are talking about reforming the emissions trading system.
we need to reduce co2 emissions in the european union, but i ask you to be very balanced, balancing our goal of reducing co2 emissions with our goal of preserving industry and jobs in the european union.
i would urge the commission to look very carefully at whether this project is at all compatible with our objectives of creating an energy union, because we see that it would not increase our security of energy supply, on the contrary it would increase our dependence on one supplier, russia.
and the european union often positions itself as one of the world's most active advocates of the un's basic principles in the fight against global warming, conflict resolution, ending discrimination, cultural exchange and so on.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in europe, we have set ourselves the very noble, correct goal of reducing co2 emissions.
but at the same time we are aware that in europe we are in a world competitive environment and perhaps this objective we have set ourselves is a little bit at odds with our need to remain competitive in our world.
so i ask the commission, in view of what you are doing, particularly with the emissions trading system, to look carefully at the targets for reducing co2 emissions and the need to keep european industry in europe.
leaving will not reduce waste, but will only increase unemployment in europe.
in this context, i would like to highlight the funding of five new posts for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, whose main task is to monitor wholesale gas prices in the eu.
the european union imports more than half of its energy needs, while the regions from which these energy resources come become increasingly unstable, thus threatening the security of energy supplies.
the european commission has therefore developed an energy union strategy.
in order to achieve the objectives of this strategy, it is important to ensure the functioning of the internal market of the european union, in which the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators plays a major role.
i thought for a moment about the energy situation.
to open up the energy market, we now have this energy union, which will actually do the same.
we got rid of the soviet union, we're going to get rid of this situation where we don't have a free market in energy.
tourism, sport, energy, trade, investment, ecology - all these and many more are the cornerstones of the relationship.
climate change is another area of cooperation of great importance, especially given the relatively high exposure of this pacific ocean country to climate change, firstly, sea level rise.
‒ energy independence is a must for any country in the world.
40% of final energy consumption is consumed by the buildings and construction sector, while 30% is consumed by transport, which is 94% dependent on petroleum products.
nuclear power accounted for 27% of the energy produced in the previous year, fossil fuels for 40% and hydropower for 11%.
interestingly, eu companies own around 40% of all the world's patents on renewable energy technologies, which contribute only a small amount to those same greenhouse gas emissions.
in other words, while our countries are currently highly dependent on imported energy and non-renewable energy sources, and this dependence may increase in the coming decades, diversification of the relevant import sources and a much more intensive shift towards renewable energy sources are the policy directions that our member states and the union as a whole must pursue.
while the new cfp reform seems logical enough and certainly long overdue, the main thing it should achieve is not just some rationalization of the rules for the operation of the system, but improving the welfare of europeans involved in fishing, taking their interests into account, and promoting the sustainability of marine resources without negative consequences for the population involved in the sector.
virtually all the world's nations have committed to reducing carbon emissions to reduce the human impact on global warming.
we would maintain our competitiveness, i think i would predict that our competitiveness would increase, because companies in europe have understood for years what energy efficiency is, have worked on reducing carbon emissions, we have so-called green technologies, we have an advantage.
but if the rest of the world doesn't follow europe and it's just a, let's say, political commitment, then europe will lose its competitiveness in the world and emissions will only continue to rise.
one of the most striking negative examples is the rabbit in australia, and the tremendous damage they've done to the local ecosystem over the last couple of centuries.
the effects on human health and the environment of these products are not yet fully understood and investigated.
the business and investment environment differs from one member state to another.
but it is clear that we must do everything possible at the present time to achieve lower energy consumption in metal production and other relevant and dependent areas, and to maximise the stability and security of supply of imported resources, at least in the medium term.
‒ at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg, i voted for a resolution supporting the sustainable development of the base metal industry in europe.
this is a problem for the european union high energy costs in the eu, which are more than twice as high as, say, in the united states.
it is very difficult to compete in an energy-intensive industry such as the metal industry under these conditions.
the european union is therefore working towards an energy union that will ensure security and continuity of supply, competition and lower energy prices.
the agreement will also promote cooperation in the areas of good governance, the fight against corruption, sustainable development, disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and contribute to the fight against terrorism.
officially established a quarter of a century ago with an initial focus on trade and development, modern eu-vietnam relations have now become much broader, incorporating energy, science, technology, culture and ecology.
one of the main problems is that there has been not only a possible breach of the law, but also a major environmental damage and - which is of fundamental importance - consumers have actually been lied to about the environmental impact of the cars they have bought.