the agreement will contribute to fostering the sustainable development of the são toméan fisheries sector and of related industries and activities.
this agreement aims to further the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and of related industries and activities in são tomé and príncipe.
— i supported the request for parliament to consult the european economic and social committee on ‘implementation of the 2011 white paper on transport: taking stock and way forward towards sustainable mobility’.
the eu authorisation system for gmos aims at avoiding possible adverse effects on human and animal health and the environment while establishing an internal market for such products.
— the eu authorisation system for gmos aims at avoiding possible adverse effects on human and animal health and the environment, while establishing an internal market for gm products.
— the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) has adopted a number of measures that aim to ensure sustainable exploitation of red coral measures, mitigation of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans in fishing activities in the gfcm agreement areas, high level of protection from fishing activities with regard to sharks and rays, in particular those endangered or threatened, and the sustainable development of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
at its annual sessions in 2011 and 2012, the gfcm adopted measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, for the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, for the protection of sharks and rays, and for fisheries exploiting small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
here we have a humanitarian catastrophe, an environmental disaster ready to happen, as some of you mentioned, and a risk of spill-over into the neighbouring countries.
that is not something i would discuss today, and i thank you for not having that discussion today, because today is the day of sending to the libyans, and to the region and to the rest of the international community, a clear message: this is the last chance for dialogue, and we should not and cannot waste it.
i ask you: how will the political, security and environmental challenges directly affecting countries such as malta, italy and greece be addressed?
in her long tenure, emily o'reilly has shown determination, energy and efficiency in her role.
russia’s aggressive and expansionist policy through the use of cyber warfare, economic pressure and even energy blackmail remind us that europe plays an important part in this situation, as these actions are not only in breach of international law, but also impinge on the european security situation.
i voted in favour of this resolution, as i support the efforts to work out a sustainable peace settlement.
the resolution also highlights the need to enhance the eu’s energy security, thus reducing the eu’s vulnerability to external pressure from actors that seek to use energy supplies as a bargaining tool.
– climate change is a global challenge, and greenhouse gas emissions are a global problem requiring a global coordinated response.
i am strongly in favour of having a roadmap which will eventually lead us to a new, strong international climate agreement in paris.
after the economic crisis in the eu, which somehow put the environment on the back burner, it is once again high on the agenda.
i honestly hope that europe can be an inspiration to others and retain its global leadership on environmental and climate issues.
i will not say that the paris conference is the world’s last chance to avoid catastrophic climate change but i do believe that we have a good opportunity before of us, which we should not miss.
— this resolution calls for the signing of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and senegal.
— i support the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of senegal because it will facilitate an escalation of the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (iuu) in senegalese waters.
sustainable fisheries arrangements both within and outside the eu should fully respect the rights and interests of traditional fishermen.
it also expresses the need to make the multi-stakeholder approach sustainable through increased inclusivity, transparency and accountability.
and i say step because i believe this is the first step because the future of energy and the energy union is much stronger than a one-off exercise.
the importance of solidarity in the field of energy is fundamental.
if member states work together in the energy field then we will be stronger to ensure energy supply to european citizens.
it is important that the european union explores all the potential of different sources, routes and even suppliers in the field of energy.
today we have too few electricity and gas interconnectors and much more needs to be done to reduce the barriers that exist, to allow energy to move freely from one member state to another.
– i welcome the commission proposal for an energy union framework strategy, which is the right way forward towards the creation of an energy-independent europe.
efficient solutions in reducing energy dependency, securing energy supply, whilst at the same time reducing energy prices and energy poverty for our citizens, are crucial for the future of europe.
energy markets are increasingly interlinked across the union.
europe can no longer afford to look at energy security and energy poverty as a purely national or local problem for individual member states.
europe, urgently, needs to find interstate, interoperable solutions supported by strong policies to implement a fully functioning, interconnected and integrated internal energy market.
therefore the commission and member states should grasp the momentum and implement a strong energy union security strategy.
a strategy that will improve the infrastructure investments and security of supply, prevent the energy supply shortages and focus on a new and better interconnected infrastructure between the south and west mediterranean.
in an environment of weak economic recovery and subdued money and credit developments, risks were increasing that falling inflation expectations would feed back into weakening actual inflation.
the past few years have been challenging for the conduct of our monetary policy in view of the environment of financial fragmentation, which brings me to the topic of the foundation of our economic and monetary union.
economic convergence has not been as sustainable as was hoped for at the outset.
the commission shares parliament’s views that we need to use the opportunities that monetary policy and low energy prices are creating to move forward with adequate fiscal and structural reforms and policies.
those with sustainability challenges should continue adjustment and member states with fiscal space should use it to support growth.
at member state level, ambitious implementation of structural reforms and product services and labour markets can contribute to increasing productivity, regaining competitiveness and improving the business environment, thereby also fostering investment.
it is reassuring to know that we can count on your support in building the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation in europe.
as we know, madam president, sustainable and effective competition remains the most important catalyst in promoting employment, growth and innovation in the european union's internal market.
small traders have already been hit very hard by european economic conditions; however, a fairer competitive environment could help them to recover some of these losses.
when it comes to energy a number of commitments have been made which has made, i think, the desirable effort to open up our markets.
for instance, when it comes to the energy mix, we may have differences in how we view nuclear power for instance.
but it is within the scope of the member state to decide their energy mix.
relevant transport services to such communities, even when subsidised appropriately, have no impact on the competitive environment of the eu as a whole.
‒ the current economic climate and in particular the serious economic disruptions facing the steel production sector across the eu has led the belgian authorities to request the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in order to provide a coordinated package of personalised services in three main areas: redeployment, training and retraining, and promotion of entrepreneurship.
the report stresses that in this particular environment, it is important that the coordinated package of personalised services improves the employability of all the workers by being adapted not only to the needs of the dismissed workers, but also to the actual business environment of the region.
the amendments focus on the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, particularly carbon dioxide (co2) emissions, improve road safety, adapt the relevant legislation to technological developments and changing market needs, and to facilitate intermodal transport operations, while ensuring undistorted competition and protecting the road infrastructure.
‒ the directive in question seeks to improve the general safety of vehicles, drivers and road users and enhance environmental performance by cutting fuel consumption and emissions.
‒ the new directive referred to in this report would promote the use of alternative power trains and aerodynamic flaps thus contributing to reductions in co2 emissions, fuel savings and road safety.
the new rules also establish that manufactures may produce longer cabs if they are more energy efficient and safer.
such changes will potentially have a good effect both on the environment and on the industry itself, hence i voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which has as its aim the introduction of newly designed lorries with improved overall safety and environmental performance.
the new directive would promote the use of alternative power-trains and aerodynamic flaps and cabs, thus contributing to reductions in co2 emissions, fuel savings and road safety.
europe needs smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i support such a policy which could play a key role in reinforcing the holistic approach to the single market aimed at addressing europe’s economic, social and environmental challenges which needs to be in full respect of national diversities.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as a whole since it stresses that a reinforced focus on promoting competition is necessary for the achievement of the ambitious objectives for jobs, growth, investment and the global competitiveness of the european economy, as it is sustainable and effective competition that drives investment and end-user benefits and fuels the economy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because of its support for the european central bank’s rapid response to the challenging and changing economic environment.
this concept is crucial in creating sustainable, inclusive and quality jobs.
such measures will play a major role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development.
such priorities include the creation of employment and the development of enterprises and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth across the union.
‒ i agree with the key points outlined, including the fact that the eu budget is to be considered as a tool to create employment, enterprises, entrepreneurship for sustainable growth in the eu, the european investment plan, and the fight against the payment crisis.
it expresses the need to restore a favourable business environment and use the 2016 budget to give smes back their role as main job creators in the union.
i fully support the key points of this report, with the eu budget being a tool to create employment, enterprises, entrepreneurship for sustainable growth in the eu, the european investment plan, and improving the unemployment situation, and the need to ensure financing of the youth employment initiative as from 2016.
in writing.
while commending the legislative progress achieved with regard to the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption, it adds that more needs to be done on the ground.
parliament is concerned that due to the deeply polarised domestic climate the main opposition party has boycotted some parliamentary sessions.
in this vein, parliament encourages sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation, especially within parliament, and urges all political parties to focus their energy on the country's eu accession.
‒ this resolution highlights the positive strides that montenegro has made to formulate policies that create a climate of tolerance and inclusion for all communities within the country.
it stresses the urgency for the new government to pursue the necessary reforms with commitment and determination, and notably strengthening the rule of law and the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime, unemployment, structural economic reforms, and sustainable development.
‒ the 2015 annual growth survey focuses on putting europe firmly back on a path of sustainable job creation and economic growth.
‒ the report places strong emphasis on elements aimed at boosting sustainable economic growth, job creation in all age groups and fostering social progress, whilst respecting the european social model.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need to consolidate single market governance by establishing an annual single market governance cycle as a specific pillar of the european semester with the aim of revitalising the european economy through a well-functioning, deeper and fairer single market capable of boosting sustainable growth, quality jobs, competitiveness and social cohesion, attracting investment and strengthening the european industrial base.
accountability for crimes committed in the course of the conflict is essential to ensure sustainable peace.
i welcome the report from the high representative and i am concerned that the eu has so far not been able to use its full potential to shape the international political and security environment.
federica mogherini took over this role from catherine ashton in 2014. the report states that europe is facing a changed political and security environment, especially in its immediate neighbourhood.
the resolution calls on the commission to propose a multiannual management plan for sea bass in order to bring the stock to a level above the maximum sustainable yield.
furthermore, it calls on the commission to propose a multiannual management plan on sea bass in order to bring the stock to a level above the maximum sustainable yield, stressing that this should be done with the involvement of professional and recreational fishermen.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it highlights the fact that measures for commercial and recreational fisheries should be coherent with each other to maintain the stock above the maximum sustainable yield, which is in accordance with the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft motion for resolution on sustainable exploitation of sea bass.
the draft council decision provides that the chairperson shall be elected for a term of two years, which shall be renewable once.
the draft council decision provides that the chairperson shall be elected for a term of two years, which shall be renewable once.
in fact, the european commission's 2011 white paper on transport indicates that co2 emissions from the maritime sector should decrease by at least 40% by 2050 compared to 2005 levels.
in reality, however, despite the entry into force of minimum energy efficiency standards for certain categories of ships and despite new technology, emissions from the maritime sector are expected to continue to increase, due to an increase in demand for maritime transport caused by an increase in world trade.
the increase in emissions from the maritime sector, however, goes completely against the european union's climate targets.
the mrv system on co2 emissions is therefore only the first step towards establishing a global system for monitoring, reporting and verifying emissions from the international maritime sector.
this sector can contribute to emission reductions if there are strong regulatory measures, together with new and existing technology, which together can help to reduce emissions.
from a climate change perspective this is certainly a positive consideration to bear in mind.
it is a fact that all sectors have to contribute and when you consider the international nature of maritime transport, then it is clear that the most effective method to reduce greenhouse emissions in this sector is a global agreement within the international maritime organization, so it is interesting to know what the imo will do.
‒ the object of the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel (stcw-f convention) is to ensure that personnel sailing on fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job in order to minimise, where possible, the potential threats to safety of life and/or property at sea or to the marine environment.
‒ the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for fishing vessel personnel (stcw-f convention) ensures that personnel sailing on fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job, so that potential threats to safety of life and/or property at sea or to the marine environment can, wherever possible, be minimised when operations are being carried out on seagoing vessels.
the object of the convention is to ensure that personnel sailing on fishing vessels are qualified and fit for the job, so that potential threats to safety of life and/or property at sea or to the marine environment can be minimised.
‒ i supported draft amending budget no 2/2015 dealing with the transfer of commitments under shared management, economic, social and territorial cohesion, sustainable growth, security and citizenship and global europe.
the aim behind this proposal is to cut greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions and safeguard food security caused by the growing use of farmland for biofuel crops.
those sourced from certain types of waste and residues and new sources such as seaweed, in total transport consumption.
failure to address the indirect land use change (iluc) effect would compromise the eu’s climate targets for the transport sector.
i thus voted in favour of this report to support the development of new advanced biofuels in europe without hampering the use of climate-effective ethanol and biodiesel.
i believe in moving towards advanced biofuels that ultimately deliver real benefits for the climate while avoiding competition with food production.
‒ i supported this recommendation for a second reading in order to keep the european union moving towards achieving its goals of promoting and increasing the use of renewable energy sources in the transport sector by 2020. i also chose to support the rapporteur’s view that parliament should highlight the need for a longer-term policy that will lead to greater investment in sustainable fuels in the european union.
‒ i support this report, which calls for a move towards advanced biofuels that deliver real benefits for the climate while avoiding competition with food production.
‒ littering of plastic bags is a widespread problem and can be harmful especially to the marine environment.
decreasing plastic bag usage will lead to a cleaner environment in europe.
the directive in question targets plastic bags between 15 and 50 microns in thickness which pose a greater environmental risk than thicker ones, as the former are rarely re-used.
plastic bags are seriously harmful to the environment.
they are also damaging to our marine environment.
these binding measures would be the first pieces of legislation introduced at the eu level that will reduce waste generation.
‒ discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment, not to mention the harm being done by marine litter to biodiversity.
putting a charge on the use of plastic bags is a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem overnight.
‒ the main objective of the proposed regulation is to establish an eu-wide system for monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping, in order to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions and to encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption, as a first step towards a global mrv system.
the mrv requirements will apply to co2 emissions arising from voyages between eu ports.
international maritime shipping remains the only means of transportation not included in the union’s action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ at eu level maritime shipping is the only means of transportation not included in the european union’s action to reduce greenhouse emissions.
this sector accounts for 4% of greenhouse gas emissions and these are expected to increase in the future.
the objective of the proposed regulation is to introduce a system for monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport as a first step towards a global mrv system.
‒ i am in agreement with the eu mrv system for co2 emissions from the maritime transport industry.
it is only through a global agreement that we can start addressing reduction in maritime transport emissions.
‒ i did not support the report on carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
it aims to consider inter-species interactions, such as the influence of cod on herring and sprat stocks and other aspects related to ecosystem and fisheries based on the most updated scientific knowledge.
‒ multiannual plans for fisheries management are an essential tool to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and marine ecosystems, and also offer fishermen increased predictability over the long run.
the plan should provide for balanced, sustainable exploitation of stocks and thereby for the livelihoods of fishermen.
i believe that, being the first multiannual plan under the reformed common fisheries policy, it must ensure environmental, economic and social sustainability and respect the precautionary and the eco-system-based approach to fisheries management.
it takes into account the balanced and sustainable exploitation of the species concerned but also the livelihoods of those employed in the fishing sector.
the rapporteur also highlights the level of flexibility presented by the commission, which is crucial for the ecosystem and also to allow new scientific approaches and data to be quickly taken on board and alter the management approach for the better.
it aims to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the stocks of cod, herring and sprat, and provide stability of fishing opportunities, while ensuring that management is based on the most up to date scientific information on interactions within and between the stocks and with other aspects of the ecosystem and environment.
‒ following tough discussions at eu committee level a compromise text has been presented underscoring the need for the strategy to focus on the sustainable management of forests and their multifunctional role from an economic, social and environmental point of view.
it acknowledges that the eu has a role to play in strengthening cooperation to tackle transnational challenges such as fires, climate change, natural disasters or invasive alien species.
‒ forests are a valuable asset, serving economic, social and environmental purposes.
the report stresses that the eu forest strategy should focus on sustainable management of forests and their multifunctional roles from an economic, social and environmental point of view.
it rejects direct eu competence for forestry but acknowledges that the eu has a role to play in strengthening cooperation to tackles national challenges such as fires, climate change, natural disasters and invasion by alien species.
the report deals with employment in the sector and sustainable use of forest resources.
‒ i supported this report as it not only recognises the need for the new eu forest strategy to be in sync with the european union’s environment and climate policy, but also stresses that forestry should remain a national competence due to the sector’s local and regional nature.
the s&d group worked with others to ensure the report was as comprehensive as possible in a number of areas, such as employment in the sector, sustainable use of forest resources, and ensuring that people in europe understand better the importance of their forests and will be able to benefit from them in many ways.
‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer) is achieving good results in its area of work.
‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013
in writing.
i believe that the european environment agency is doing extremely good work when it comes to the protection of the environment in the eu as a whole and also in controlling the environment levels in the different member states.
moreover we need to support this agency which is responsible of keeping our environment clean and sustainable.
‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ i am in agreement with the report on discharge of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ the clean sky joint undertaking deals specifically with developing breakthrough technologies to significantly increase the environmental performances of airplanes and air transport.
‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking deals specifically with fuel cell and hydrogen energy technologies in europe.
‒ the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy brings together industry and research bodies in public private partnerships.
iter deals specifically with fusion energy.
‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to not support the decision regarding the discharge implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013
in writing.
this is why our lending, anchored within the priorities of europe 2020, has gone in particular to infrastructure – that is, to strategic infrastructure – climate action, innovation and skills and, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which, as your report rightly points out, are the backbone of europe’s economy.
the eib is committed to supporting the eu’s ambitious energy and climate policy goals.
for the last six years, more than 25% of our annual lending has contributed to climate action.
since 2013, we have set stringent energy performance standards that effectively close the door on financing unabated coal power plants.
with the encouragement of this house, we were able, in 2011, to launch the european energy efficiency fund, which has already helped mobilise more than eur 400 million of final investment for a technical assistance budget of just under eur 20 million.
i would also like to highlight the european local energy assistance facility elena.
with eu grants of eur 69 million over the past five years, elena is well on the way to mobilising eur 3.7 billion in final investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy schemes in cities across europe – including this year’s green capital, which is bristol.
together with the commission, we have recently launched a number of additional products to encourage more private-sector lending for energy efficiency and small renewable investments, and a new natural capital facility to support biodiversity projects.
as a follow-up to our energy policy review last year, the bank has also this year concluded a public consultation on its approach to climate action.
this year we will see the adoption of the united nations sustainable development goals.
ahead of the paris unfccc (united nations framework convention on climate change) talks in december, climate action will also remain a cross-cutting concern in our activity, both inside and outside the eu.
the eib is already the world’s leading public financier of climate action projects and has pioneered the market in green bonds.
the efsi is also a crucial opportunity to support infrastructure investments in line with eu policy priorities such as the europe 2020 strategy and the 2030 climate and energy package.
the investment plan has highlighted a broad range of priorities, including renewables and energy efficiency retrofits, water and wastewater, improved rail connections, greening projects in the area of maritime transport, alternative fuel infrastructure and third generation bio-refineries.
furthermore, the european union has increased the level of ambition on climate actions, in particular with the adoption in october 2014 by the eu council of the 2030 climate and energy targets.
mr president, i believe that the eib has done immensely valuable work, but i still stress that climate change and energy independence need particular and sustained attention.
the eu-led initiative to launch the sustainability compact has had a positive impact and the bangladeshi authorities are reportedly making good progress in improving health and safety in factories and working conditions in the ready-made garment (rmg) industry.
‒ the european investment bank provides finance and expertise for sound and sustainable investment projects which contribute to furthering eu policy objectives.
however, there is concern at the current situation of economic stalling in the eu, a significant decline in public and private investment and by the staggering 35 % drop in sme lending between 2008 and 2013. the report underlines that such a decline represents a massive hurdle for a sustainable recovery.
the report also points out that national projections demonstrate that nearly half of all member states will not achieve their national targets on education schemes and greenhouse gas reductions by 2020, while employment and poverty reduction trends are even worse.
‒ i supported the report on the european investment bank annual report 2013, which puts forward a set of recommendations on the eib’s operational methodology, in terms of how the eib should be ready to play its role under the investment package, how investment needs to target more specifically the backbone of the european economy, namely smes, and how eib investment projects need to be aimed increasingly towards sustainable energy and climate as well as infrastructure investments important for jobs and growth.
such a system is increasingly required in europe, beyond the horizons of the efsi and the eib, to stimulate entrepreneurship and new productive activity, such as in sustainable energy project: climate-related as well as infrastructure investments are important for jobs and growth.
‒ this resolution stresses that in order to tackle the food security challenge in such a discussion we need to continue promoting the following: a strong and sustainable agricultural sector across the eu, a thriving and diversified rural economy, a clean environment, and family farms, supported by a robust, fairer, internationally sustainable and appropriately financed common agricultural policy.
as i agree with the general approach to sustainable living highlighted in the resolution i voted in favour of it.
‒ in light of the detrimental effects of climate change on the global food system, i chose to support this resolution as it urges the commission to give greater support and attention to research on land management and sustainable intensification through more efficient use of nutrients, water and energy.
it also calls for more research into improving crop yields without increasing the environmental impact of agriculture.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on expo milano 2015. the title themes of feeding the planet – energy for life are crucial and bring together many aspects of eu policy, both internally and externally focused.
combating food waste and promoting efficient, environmentally sustainable food production and land use are essential measures to combat poverty and malnutrition in the years to come.
it also calls on the commission and member states to work with all stakeholders to develop a multi-level, comprehensive and sustainable eu strategy for patient safety.
‒ green growth sectors offer great economic and ecological benefits for smes in the eu, and is estimated to grow considerably in the coming years.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that green economy sectors offer great economic and ecological benefits for smes in the eu.
‒ i supported the measures adopted in this non-legislative report that looks into different ways of exploiting the potential for green growth in response to the commission communication on the green action plan for growth and focuses on financing opportunities, resource efficiency, energy efficiency, the circular economy and industrial synergies.
‒ i believe that extending an existing derogation granted to cadmium is bad for the environment and for public health.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution and object to the commission’s delegated regulation as i support the conclusions of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i have thus voted in favour as further spread of xylella fastidiosa could lead to unprecedented and devastating losses, with dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences.
‒ the security environment of the eu and of its eastern and southern neighbourhoods are increasingly unstable.
the eu has a vital interest in a secure, open and clean maritime environment that allows the free passage of goods and people, so an implementation of the common security and defence policy is necessary, and thus i voted in favour.
i will speak on a specific subject because in my opinion it is positive that the g7 summit's agenda is specifically about the marine environment and also the need to clean our seas of plastic waste and this is an important subject in particular for those states that are near the sea.
we therefore urgently need an effective policy to reduce plastic waste from our seas alongside international guidelines to protect our seas which are also a source of sustainable development.
we need a policy that really looks at the marine environment.
we can have economic growth and invest in projects that improve the environment around us.
whilst the approach used by the commission is valued by the different stakeholders, it identifies positively the need to encourage research and innovation, the challenge of access to medicine, and the environmental challenge as some of the important issues for the present and the future.
other it is good to move away from the premise that some people think that climate change is simply a matter that will resolve itself without our doing anything.
indeed, in the short term, climate change may even be a major factor in moving people from one continent to another.
the worst hit are the small developing countries, they contribute little to emissions but unfortunately they bear a very heavy burden.
and here is my appeal to you commissioner because you will also be leading in these negotiations, but let us also be clear because the leaders of the member states have an opportunity to be courageous and tackle, now, today before tomorrow, this environmental challenge.
european energy security is one challenge in the framework of the energy union which should lead to greater security, sustainability and even competitiveness.
i come from malta, a country with an isolated system and so i understand the importance of no country being cut off, [and] being dependent on one energy source with all the consequences that such a situation can bring.
we need to look at a secure system that has at its heart the interest of consumers, of those families who pay their electricity and gas bills, of those women and men who in many countries across the european union are living in what is called energy poverty because they do not have the finances necessary to heat or cool their homes.
and in this framework too we must keep in mind the protection of the environment, the quality of the air we live in and the reduction of pollution as a priority.
we need to work harder to have an effective scheme to reduce pollution while making sure we safeguard competitiveness.
and above all we need to be much more ambitious, investing more in research and innovation to develop more technologies that can generate cleaner energy.
an opportunity that can offer greater security to all the countries of the european union, a better life for our citizens and a better environment for us and our children.
and that's what we're talking about, and that's what it takes; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's emissions trading scheme is not a one-size-fits-all scheme.
but it is also worth remembering that we have industries that are today pushing for even a realistic carbon price, so that if yes, this situation does not materialize.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states to address climate change at international level.
the kyoto protocol has made a crucial contribution in global efforts to tackle climate change.
‒ i voted in favour of the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol because i believe that this is the european parliament’s chance to send a powerful signal in favour of stronger leadership for the eu and its member states in order to address climate change at international level.
‒ the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol lasting from january 2013 to the end of 2020. signatories will commit to legally binding emission reductions and the european union, its member states and iceland are committed to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their base year emissions (mostly 1990).
i therefore chose to support this recommendation as it will send a strong message at the international level that the european union, its members and its partners are committed to their efforts to address climate change.
under the doha amendment, the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their base year emissions (mostly 1990).
the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change at international level.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i fully concur with the recommendation that the european parliament give its consent to this agreement for iceland to jointly fulfil its commitments, in a second commitment period, together with the eu and its member states, of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
enabling the entry into force of europe’s commitments as legally-binding commitments in international law sends a strong signal about the commitment of the eu and its member states to a rules-based multilateral regime for addressing climate change at international level.
‒ i voted in favour of the eu-iceland agreement on iceland’s participation in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol as this provides legally binding emission reduction commitments according to which the eu, its member states and iceland are jointly committed to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013-2020. this provides a strong signal about the efforts to seriously address climate change.
this recommendation concerns the agreement between the european union and iceland concerning iceland’s participation in the joint fulfilment of their commitments for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emissions-reduction commitments according to which the european union, its member states and iceland are jointly committed to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013-2020 to 80% of their base-year (in most cases 1990) emissions.
the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union, will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change at international level, and the consent of the european parliament to this agreement is therefore necessary.
‒ this draft report is the european parliament’s response to the commission proposal for a european energy security strategy, which was drawn up following the crisis in ukraine.
the report outlines the framework for an improved energy security in the eu and identifies the main areas for european action in order to ensure comprehensive energy security in the eu.
‒ the eu is in urgent need of a framework for improved energy security, especially in the current geopolitical context.
europe’s dependence on energy resources has an influence on pursuing an independent foreign policy, the competitiveness of the industry and the standard of citizens’ daily lives.
the report focuses on long-term strategic objectives and includes concrete actions to moderate energy demand, increase indigenous energy production, develop energy technologies, and ensure further action to build a fully integrated and well-functioning internal energy market as well as solidarity and coordination mechanisms.
‒ i voted in favour of the european energy security strategy as i believe that this is the first step towards a fully functioning energy union.
the path to energy security lies in investing in energy efficiency, promoting renewables and developing green technology whilst creating more jobs.
‒ this report incorporates and tackles a wide variety of concerns, to ensure that a strong energy security strategy is achieved.
as a representative from malta, i support a comprehensive energy policy for europe and recognise the importance of being connected to a well—supplied european energy grid.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european energy security strategy.
the path to energy security lies in the energy transition: putting energy efficiency first, promoting renewables and investing domestically the money that is currently spent on expensive imports, in order to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs.
however, i voted against the amendments that ask member states to refrain from shale gas activities, and on the binding eu energy efficiency target.
it was only possible because of the political will, because we share the same view: europe needs investment, and we have to deliver fast in order to create a better atmosphere and environment for private investors to invest in this continent.
why do we not deliver as fast on those proposals which will harmonise the digital single market or create the digital single market or those proposals coming from the commission which are dealing with the energy market union or capital markets union?
we faced a very tall order: to find space to fund the aspiration that this commission brought, with parliament and with the council, to unleash the confidence and courage of our investors for the benefit of our people, and to do so in a very tight budgetary environment.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
other i find that this fund recognises that if we really want to make a difference in our lives and in the lives of our children we must start investing, now, in those projects and initiatives that are environmentally and socially sustainable.
it is no longer time to think that economic growth and environmental protection do not go hand in hand.
because we live in an era where innovative and sustainable projects that ensure a resource efficient and even low-carbon economy, yes, should be given priority.
as rapporteur for the environment committee i expect to see projects now with renewable technology, clean energy, electric transport and circular economy, particularly in those countries where this type of investment is lacking.
economic growth and new jobs must reach the citizens of every european union country, from the largest to the smallest, because austerity alone does not deliver long-term results and it is an economy that looks to sustainable growth that makes the difference.
‒ as a rapporteur for the envi committee on the efsi, i focused mainly on the environmental criteria that projects which will be financed should fulfil.
the efsi criteria are an acknowledgment that economic growth and environment sustainability can go hand in hand and be complementary rather than contradictory to one another.
i support parliament’s efforts to guarantee that the efsi is in sync with the european union’s strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
these new investments are not only needed to relaunch the eu economy, but also to transform it into a resilient, innovative, inclusive, low-carbon and circular economy
in writing.
the aid will now help the three countries to repair damage done to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses, agriculture, the environment, and cultural heritage by floods that hit romania in the spring and summer, bulgaria in the summer and italy in the autumn of 2014.
in writing.
‒ this report deals with the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (set up to respond to major natural disasters and express european solidarity ) for a total amount of eur 66.5 million in response to four floods in italy, romania and bulgaria during 2014. in all four cases, there has been a considerable damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, private homes and assets, the agricultural sector and the environment.
the aid will now help the three countries to repair damage done to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses, agriculture, the environment and cultural heritage by floods that hit romania in the spring and summer, bulgaria in the summer and italy in the autumn of 2014.
in writing.
the fact that we are trying to promote a shift towards the use of public transport is positive as it reflects an increased awareness of our environment.
dairy farmers are particularly vulnerable to income variations due to high capital costs, volatile dairy commodity prices and fluctuating input and energy costs.
it is important to work towards a viable, sustainable and competitive diary sector across the eu.
thank you, mr president, and allow me to begin by thanking the rapporteur and also the shadow rapporteurs who worked on this that we are talking about today because as a mother of a young child i would like my son to live in a clean environment and to have a quality job in europe in the future.
ten years ago the european union set up this system as its main tool against climate change but the implementation of the system as it stands is having little effect.
on the one hand the ets has achieved the reduction in green house gas emissions, although part of this reduction may be due to the economic crisis, and on the other hand the ets has not offered a good price to incentivise the entry of innovative technologies and cleaner sources.
the emissions trading scheme as it currently stands does not function properly.
the success or failure of the ets will directly influence emissions in europe and climate change.
we need a strong system to reduce emissions most effectively and at the lowest cost while helping european industries to stay on our continent and remain competitive.
of course we need some allies there, but it should be clear that it is our immediate interest and we should, once again, be the ones who are pushing hopefully sustainable resolutions.
we must review our policy action relating to the region to ensure that they reflect the post-arab spring environment and concerns of growing terrorism in the area.
i believe that a good and fair transatlantic agreement can be beneficial to european union citizens and enterprises in terms of growth and jobs while avoiding a global race to the bottom on human rights, environmental and labour standards.
with regards to critical areas such as public services and environmental and food safety standards, the commission should commit to excluding public services such as water, health, social services, education, etc.
from ttip and to ensuring that national authorities retain full rights in these areas; upcoming negotiations must also ensure that eu-us regulatory cooperation in the future will not lower eu standards, including those on gmos, labour and the environment.
‒ i have followed the recommendation of the european parliament committee on industry, research and energy and gave my consent to renewal of the scientific and technological cooperation with india, following the request for consent by the european parliament that was submitted by the council in accordance with article 186 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a)(v), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
‒ i have followed the recommendation of the european parliament committee on industry, research and energy and gave my consent to the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands to horizon 2020 – the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020), following the request for consent by the european parliament that was submitted by the council in accordance with article 186 and article 218(6), second subparagraph, point (a)(v), of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
‒ i voted in favour of the report, which includes the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council on a far-reaching reform of the european emissions trading system (ets).
an automatic correction mechanism (market stability reserve or msr) that will enable the ets to function much more effectively will start operating in 2019. this reform puts europe on the right track to achieving its ambition of 40% less co2 emissions by 2030 and in a leading position for the upcoming climate conference (cop21) to propose concrete plans to reach the 2030 climate targets.
on the other hand, we need to ensure that the upcoming commission proposals include sufficient guarantees that energy-intensive industries in steel, chemicals, glass, etc.
do not delocalise their production facilities to countries outside the eu that have less stringent climate policies (‘carbon leakage’).
the commission also sets out to rectify the shortcomings which prevented it from achieving its purpose ‘to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner,’ this too is a positive step forward in itself.
stability is crucial so that the proper investments that can ensure sustainable economic growth can be carried out.
moreover today’s vote sends also a strong signal toward climate negotiations that are to take place during the cop 21 this year in paris in december.
‒ i voted in favour of this report that supports the commission’s proposal to make structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets).
parliament suggested the inclusion of clear protection within the ets for the union’s industries that are at risk of carbon leakage.
‒ i fully endorsed the reform of the eu emissions trading scheme (ets), which is intended to reduce the surplus of carbon credits available for trading in order to support the price of the emission rights.
without structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets) we will not be able to address the surplus of emission allowances which has been building up in recent years.
‒ i gave my consent for the conclusion of this agreement following the recommendations of the committee on industry, research and energy.
‒ the conclusions put forward in this recommendation on the agreement on cooperation in science and technology between the european union and european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 will allow both parties to improve and intensify their cooperation in science and technology in areas of common interest.
‒ i supported the buzek report on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the eu, the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation with reference to horizon 2020 and the latter’s participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy as i believe that this is an exercise which can be mutually beneficial.
‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at concluding the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and european atomic energy community (euratom) and switzerland associating this country to horizon 2020 – the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020, and regulating switzerland’s participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
‒ in general, i fully support the report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, which underpins the europe 2020 strategy within the context of the new approach to economic policy and supporting the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the report refers to areas which are of particular importance for me, such as investment, growth, barriers to growth and jobs, sustainability of public finances, demand for labour, skills, functioning of the labour markets, poverty and equal opportunities.
we must also keep in mind the goals of achieving a low-carbon economy and must budget appropriately for this.
‒ green growth sectors offer great economic and ecological benefits for workers in the eu, and is estimated to grow considerably in the coming years.
the report highlights the fact that a green and a circular economy can provide solutions for the environment as well as for the economy.
‒ this non-legislative report outlines the employment challenges and opportunities of the current transition towards a green, low-carbon, energy and resource-efficient economy.
‒ i voted against this report as i am not in favour of an increase in binding and more ambitious waste targets.
‒ in the circular economy model, drawn up by this report, existing materials and products are continuously re-used, repaired, re-furbished and recycled, and thus the waste quantities are minimised.
it must be highlighted that resource efficiency is a solution to the economic and ecological challenges that europe is struggling with.
the shift towards a zero-waste economy would significantly decrease this dependence as well as aid in meeting the environmental targets that the union has committed to on the international scene.
‒ the unsustainable use of resources is both causing environmental damage and posing an economic risk and continuing in this course would lead to an ecological and economic impasse, therefore moving towards an ambitious circular economy and resource efficiency is a solution to the ecological dilemma we are faced with and to the economic challenges europe is struggling with.
therefore, the report also stresses that there is a need to effectively combat terrorism and calls on the european union to step up its efforts to safeguard religious minorities and providing a safe environment.
further to that, i am in favour of sustainable economic development in the area.
‒ i voted in favour of this overall consensual report which covers the most relevant topics related to the middle east and north africa region, such as the fight against isis and other extremist groups, the need for the eu to step up support for the political transition in tunisia, support the development of civil societies in those countries, and the need for an inclusive security environment which takes into account legitimate concerns of all sides.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the european endowment for democracy (eed) role in fostering and encouraging democratisation and deep and sustainable democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation.
first vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, even though he is not here, and the members of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) for this very extensive and welcome report, which also takes account of the opinions of the committee on fisheries and the committee on employment and social affairs.
the report stresses that the sustainability dimension must be fully embedded in our approach, and i can confirm that the commission is wholeheartedly in agreement with this approach.
we must indeed protect, restore and maintain coastal and oceanic ecosystems, biodiversity, resilience and productivity, keep the oceans free from pollutants and litter and apply the precautionary principle.
for instance, there are two specific articles in the european maritime and fisheries fund regulation which focus on innovation and sustainable development of fisheries and aquaculture; and horizon 2020, the framework programme for research innovation, supports a considerable amount of research in the traditional sectors.
finally, i could not agree more that a global level playing field is needed to further strengthen the eu’s position as a global leader in a sustainable blue economy.
i have launched an international public consultation on what the eu needs to do to improve the governance of the oceans, including ensuring a sustainable use of ocean resources and guaranteeing a level playing field.
we need to ensure that whilst maximising the potential of our seas we ensure the protection of our maritime environment from any damaging effects including the proliferation of further plastics and micro-plastics, which is an issue of utmost urgency.
according to the basic regulations, there are two main exceptions: products from hunts conducted by inuit or other indigenous communities (the ic exception) and products from hunts conducted for the sole purpose of sustainable management of marine resources on a small scale and non-profit basis (the mrm exception).
‒ i agreed with and voted in favour of the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) on the commission proposal, which shows that people are still uncomfortable with consuming food resulting from cloned animals.
from an environmental standpoint, the report calls for preserving the natural marine environments and biodiversity, decarbonising maritime transport and diversifying energy sources, thus contributing to climate and energy targets via the use of energy potential contained in waves, tides and seaweed.
whilst innovation should be supported, it is essential that our sensitive marine ecosystems are protected to ensure sustainable growth.
‒ the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of economic sectors linked to the seas and oceans, spanning traditional and emerging sectors including for instance fisheries, aquaculture, ports and logistics, tourism, shipbuilding and ship-repairing, protection of the coastline, prospecting for, and exploitation of, offshore mineral and energy resources, biotechnology.
oceans and seas can be source of growth, jobs, food, medicine and energy while protecting ecosystems for generations to come if they are managed in a responsible and sustainable manner.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report towards integrated approach to cultural heritage, which, i believe, is one of the pillars of the european culture and needs to be preserved and fostered through an integrated and coordinated policy in order to preserve it for future generations, as well as to realise its potential as a source of sustainable jobs and growth.
we have seen in practice, and you know very well, taking you to your regions, to your countries, you know very well what the impact of european funds is, as you said here: new jobs created, improvements in roads, infrastructure, water, canals, internet connections, that successful programme on energy efficiency in public and private buildings.
older citizens can be active participants in our society both as active contributors and as beneficiaries of society, in a suitable environment and with a healthy lifestyle, people of a certain age, can easily keep their jobs with a positive effect on public revenue.
it also calls for the agreement to promote more genuinely sustainable development of the fisheries sector and for the commission to develop its own means of data collecting on all catches so as to be better empowered to assess the impact of the agreement on the marine ecosystem and on the fishing communities more accurately.
it aims to help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and to promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources.
‒ i have voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol with guinea bissau, as this provides for a continued cooperation agreement on sustainable fishing.
the agreement also sets forth sound methods to manage the fisheries resources and ensures sustainability protocols are being adhered to by national and eu fishing vessels through improved monitoring capacities.
it aims to help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and to promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources.
furthermore, this protocol will promote the cooperation between eu and cape verde, aiming to create a sustainable fisheries policy.
‒ this protocol between the eu and the republic of cape verde is being established in order to comply with the new common fisheries policy regulation, which puts the emphasis on sustainable fisheries and good governance, while recognising the importance of policy consistency between the cfp and eu development cooperation objectives.
it will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy in cape verde and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
furthermore, this protocol will promote the cooperation between eu and cape verde, aiming to create a sustainable fisheries policy.
‒ the proposal for a protocol to allow continued fishing activities by the european fleet and also to allow ship owners authorisation in the cape verde is beneficial since it will foster a new impetus for cooperation towards the development and exploration of sustainable fisheries in the area.
it will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy in cape verde and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
‒ i gave my consent to the conclusion of this protocol as it ensures to develop cooperation between the eu and the republic of madagascar which will help to promote sustainable fisheries policy.
the recommendations put forward in this fisheries partnership agreement will assist both the eu and madagascar in meeting the objectives of the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in the interest of both parties.
the agreement puts forward a proposal for monitoring processes and developing future guidelines for possible experimental and sustainable fishing.
‒ the protocol and agreement is being established due to the new regulation governing the common fisheries policy, which places emphasis on sustainable fisheries and good governance.
the agreement will further our goals of sustainability for these vital resources, while still allowing development of the fishing sector to continue.
under the protocol, madagascar is expected to continue to cooperate effectively with the eu particularly as regards the sustainable management of fishery resources and the fight against iuu fishing.
‒ europe is currently facing multiple challenges such as the economy, climate, environment and society.
‒ the purpose of this own-initiative report is to examine the urban policy challenges for eu policymakers and to devise guidelines and boundaries for a future sustainable eu urban development policy.
this report focuses on the challenges we face today and how the urban environment can either solve or exacerbate these issues.
‒ i have voted in favour of this report, which examines the challenges of the urban policy for eu policy makers and gives advice for a future sustainable eu urban development policy, which is essential to gear the eu urban agenda towards the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and in particular to the topics of social inclusion, demographic change and sustainability.
i can assure you that the commission will continue to work hard in support of member states to address future challenges as regards the sustainability of health systems.
in today’s challenges there is, for example, no time to waste in assuring that member states correctly and timely apply european law on migration as well as that on human trafficking and the environment.
i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to give priority to the most efficient and sustainable modes of transport.
i further believe that the report should have made a reference to sustainable road transport modes where rail is unavailable.
it covers areas of transportation policy from sustainability of the energy used to the actual reliability of the individual lines.
to provide current and future generations with access to safe, secure, reliable and affordable mobility resources to meet their needs, while minimising undesirable impacts such as congestion, accidents, air and noise pollution, and climate change effects.
it also highlights several sectors with significant job creation potential that the union needs to push ahead, particularly the digital single market and energy union.
in today’s challenges, there is no time to waste in ensuring that member states correctly and timely apply eu law on migration, human trafficking and the environment.
in writing.– the stakes of this upcoming deal in paris are environmental but not exclusively.
we have to negotiate for very strong mitigation commitments; commitments that drive collective actions and send a clear signal to all stakeholders to move towards low-carbon economies and societies in the coming decades.
climate change can significantly enhance the competition for resources, such as food, water and grazing lands, and can become the biggest driver of population displacements.
therefore, adaptation to the adverse impacts of climate change is necessary for all countries to minimise negative effects and to make full use of the opportunities for climate resilient growth and sustainable development.
combating climate change contributes to combating poverty, inequalities and food security, and to fighting for development and peace.
in writing.– as the situation in the mediterranean has deteriorated dramatically, i think that the un and the new sustainable development goals should adopt a strong stand to reflect the enormity of the migration crisis.
europe and the un need to combine efforts to ascertain that all those people have a future in their own country, by ensuring that the millions of euros pumped into economies – like those in african countries – are used for the benefit of their citizens to build sustainable economies, health services, and educational facilities and create jobs.
mr president, what we are discussing today is decisively the first step towards achieving the energy union strategy and also a very important pillar of the eu’s pledge for cop 21 in paris.
in my opinion, we have a set of policy tools that can help enshrine into law the eu’s target of a reduction of at least 40% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, whilst putting households and business consumers at the heart of the european energy transition.
having said that, the ets as a main pillar of eu climate policy needs to be a very reliable instrument which can help us reduce emissions and fight climate change.
for this to happen, however, we need a reformed ets which sets a price on carbon that encourages polluters to clean up their act.
handing out free emission allowances that exempt industries from reducing emissions is definitely not a solution.
for climate change mitigation up to 2030, ets is definitely important, but energy efficiency for household appliances is extremely important too.
we need all the tools available to make sure that the eu will reach its 2030 energy and climate targets without ignoring industrial sector concerns, while sending a strong message to our global partners ahead of the paris climate conference showing that the eu is an unquestionable leader in ambition and responsibility.
we need economic growth and job creation whilst making sure that we move towards an energy transition and do a proper shift towards cleaner, more sustainable energy, tackling climate change and recover from the eurozone crisis.
it also stresses the need to develop the digital single market as well as improve the eu’s energy resilience by striving towards a greener economy.
the substance appears to be mostly used in the home environment either by users willing to try a new substance or by opioid dependent users with no access to heroin or any other opioid.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree that this measure should help foster a sustainable recovery in greece in the current situation, including its migration crisis situation.
local authorities are important in the emergence of grassroots democracy and sustainable territorial development on the basis of local-community involvement.
in order to provide services for citizens, promote sustainable practices for the future i am voting in favour of this proposal because it recognises the invaluable importance of regional governance in our society.
i believe that local authorities can play an essential role in achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals, which have just been adopted in new york and which shape the new global development agenda for the next fifteen years.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation, which i believe is very positive that the local authorities will play an essential role in achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals, which have just been adopted in new york and which shape the new global development agenda for the next fifteen years.
for me it is evident that the tests we have in place to measure emissions are not working, and independent testing of cars in real driving conditions is required.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as air pollution continues to be a significant problem in most of the member states despite numerous european and international agreements.
the proposed amendments seek, among other things, to better classify combustion plants, avoid double regulation and modify emission limits in order to lower air pollution levels.
it includes also an extension of the scope to cover the monitoring of carbon monoxide emissions and an obligation for member states to assess the need to apply stricter emission limit values in areas not complying with eu air quality standards.
‒ i voted in favour of this report since i believe that poor air quality is a serious threat to health and the environment and it is essential to promote compliance with existing air quality rules and push for maintaining tough emission limit values in line with the role of helping to shape a credible eu climate policy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because the amendments proposed, among others, offer more efficient sanctions against those who avoid the payment of taxes and social security contributions; clearer environmental and labour rules in public procurement procedures and better monitoring of companies to prevent fraud and misuse of funds.
these changes ensure proper adherence to environmental, labour, and other social standards, efficient use of budget funds, and clarify the grounds by which firms are excluded from the procurement process.
i voted in favour as it will help in providing a better service to consumers in a more secure environment.
we must take steps to prevent the loss of lives as wells as destruction of the environment.
i agree with the resolution which states that there needs to be a stronger emphasis on disaster prevention, through research and development into the treatment of hazardous waste, and by more stringent environmental inspections.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is timed to coincide with the 5th anniversary of the collapse of a waste reservoir at an aluminium plant in hungary, on 4 october 2010, releasing almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, flooding several villages and killing 10 people.
there were up to 150 injured and the pollution covered vast areas of land, including four natura 2000 sites.
red mud is waste generated in the industrial production of aluminium, and it poses one of the biggest disposal problems in the extractive industries.
therefore, the commission and member states must step up efforts to improve, and ensure the proper implementation of, all eu legislation governing the extractive waste industry in order to avoid a repeat of such an environmental and human disaster.
gender equality and women’s empowerment (gewe) is a precondition for achieving post-2015 sustainable development goals and is also a self-standing human rights issue that should be pursued regardless of its benefits for development and growth.
climate change is a global problem with grave implications, its worst impact being felt by the most vulnerable and poorer countries, and whilst technological advances will help, each and every one of us has the strength and power to change things.
i am proud that back in 1989 malta put climate change on the agenda of the un general assembly.
that is why arguments that we can wait for another century or so to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are totally unacceptable to me.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that the international community should set common goals to combat climate change.
‒ climate change is a global problem with grave implications, both on the environment and on the economy.
so, climate change calls for an urgent, responsible and global response, based on solidarity among the international community.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it explores the many ways that the union can take the lead in the fight against climate change.
the resolution highlights the importance of creating a truly circular economy as a means of not only reducing waste but also of opening up new avenues for research and development and also for employment in the green economy.
‒ climate change is one of the most serious challenges of our time both for the environment and the economy.
climate change is making climate disasters more frequent and intense.
therefore, with a few reservations i supported parliament’s non-legislative recommendations towards a new international climate agreement in paris.
‒ the resolution stresses the need of real driving emissions test to ensure that new cars on eu roads finally meet the euro 6 limits agreed almost 10 years ago.
these are all points which i have brought up in my various recent interventions in the role of s&d spokesperson on the issues of vehicle emissions, hence i have supported this resolution with my vote.
‒ this cross-party resolution calls on the commission to take the recent news regarding automotive manufacturers into account when formulating new policies in the field of sustainable transport.
it also stresses the need to ensure that vehicle emissions tests are accurate and that the european automotive industry remains at the forefront of innovation.
‒ whilst the volkswagen emissions-rigging scandal continues to grow leaving everyone perplexed and asking themselves what went wrong, drawing comparisons between the us and eu test systems and their differences and failings, we need to fully understand that what is at stake here is citizens’ health and what is important is to win back consumer trust and confidence in the standards and type-approval mechanism used in europe.
‒ this report deals with the measures adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) in its annual sessions in 2011 and 2012. i voted in favour of the inclusion of measures that deal with the sustainable exploitation of red coral and for the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, for the protection of sharks and rays amongst others.
measures include provisions for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, the protection of sharks and rays, and the extension of some technical measures to the black sea, as well as management measures for fisheries exploiting small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
‒ i voted in favour of the report as i believe it is necessary to decrease emission levels in order to protect human health, animal welfare and the environment.
‒ the proposal for this revised national emission ceilings directive replaces the current union regime on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants for so2, nox, nmvocs and ammonia until 2020. this is very timely measure as the air quality in europe is still far from achieving levels that do not result in acceptable risks to humans and the environment.
certain pollutants combine to create pm and ground-level ozone, which in turn adversely affect human health, the environment and the climate.
air pollutants are emitted from a variety of sources, including transport, electricity production, industry, heating, households, agriculture and waste.
‒ i supported the report as it calls for measures to strengthen the monitoring mechanisms to ensure timely progress in emission reductions, including transparency in drawing up and updating the national air-pollution control programmes.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it stresses the need further to develop transport and energy connections among the participating countries as well as between them and their other neighbours.
the report in my opinion tries to find solutions to all these challenges and therefore contributes to all four pillars of the strategy (blue growth; connecting europe; environmental quality and sustainable and competitive tourism).
i voted in favour of the report as i believe that the mid-term review will offer a unique opportunity to give the strategy a new energy boost that will help us to reach our objectives.
even though i am firmly in favour of a stable macroeconomic environment, macroeconomic conditionality should be applied in the most justified and balanced manner possible.
tackling long-term unemployment can contribute to sustainable growth and would reduce the impact of higher social assistance.
we are working to achieve our objectives in a sustainable and responsible way.
we are also, in this way, supporting a more socially just environment, and so we have adapted to new ways that have become available with the advance of technology.
member states should focus all their energy and resources on facilitating access to the labour market, in particular for young people and the long-term unemployed.
this report includes several elements of this new policy direction: more investment and less austerity, recognition of the real consequence of frontloaded austerity measures, surplus countries to do more efforts in pushing demand, labour market reforms to be sustainable, nevertheless at the end i could not support the final vote because some of the amendments adopted during the plenary vote were not in line with my principles.
the report suggests a risk based approach ensuring safety, guaranteeing adequate protection of citizens respecting fundamental rights of privacy and data protection, stimulating investments and innovation in the industry and the creation of sustainable and innovative jobs.
it proposes action in the fields of the sharing economy, digitisation, sustainable and responsible tourism as well as the promotion of europe as the world's number one tourist destination.
i fully agree with the recommendations in this report proposing actions in the fields of the sharing economy, digitisation, sustainable and responsible tourism as well as the promotion of europe as the world’s number one tourist destination.
mr president, i would like to commend the vice-president on the energy union tour because, when he was in malta, i could see at first hand his efforts to bring the energy union closer to its citizens.
it is precisely this point: citizens should remain at the heart of the energy union.
they need to be empowered to make the right decisions, and this goes hand in hand with our fight against energy poverty and also with climate change.
with high energy prices, the most vulnerable are always the worst hit.
in this regard, we need a properly-functioning electricity market design which can help consumers control their energy consumption and production alike – one that can integrate properly all market players, including consumers as renewable energy providers, ultimately contributing to climate change action.
‒ this proposal solidifies the eu’s goals to maintain sustainable use of fisheries on a global scale by allowing the eu to participate in and obtain membership of the commission for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) to protect and provide necessary means of harvesting bluefin tuna while also allowing the population to grow.
‒ i voted in favour of the eu’s accession to the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, as the eu’s active cooperation with regional fisheries organisations is essential in order to contribute to the sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that children are our present and our future and as politicians we need to do our best to provide them with a safe, healthy and prosperous environment for them to reach their full potential.
corruption, waste of resources and greater social inequalities have spread, so desperate people go far from home to find work.
once fully implemented, it will open up markets as well as increase the stability and predictability of the trading environment.
the eu needs to ensure the establishment of a transparent and binding roadmap on human, environmental and labour rights, and that the colombian and peruvian governments are requested to report on the implementation of action plans on sustainable development prior to the consent given by this parliament.
by voting in favour of this report i also supported the call for an action plan on social and environment rights in line with those already agreed.
we need the highest level of coordination in order to achieve coherence with all affected policy areas like environment, international trade, human rights, agriculture, and to ensure consistency in development activities.
‒ i voted in favour of the report as it outlines measures which will help us achieve our resource efficiency and sustainable development objectives.
in order to develop and maintain sustainable urban mobility, we need to dedicate a part of eu funds and cohesion funds to this.
the sustainable urban mobility concept does not represent a one-size-fits-all approach to urban transport planning.
the report calls for supporting and promoting walking and cycling, sustainable urban mobility for workers who live far away from their workplace, reducing carbon emissions from transport in urban areas, and enhancing road safety in urban areas.
over the last months i have made it clear that i stand by our citizens’ aspiration for a healthier environment and lifestyle.
‒ i chose to support this report as it suggests strategies for sustainable urban development in terms of transport infrastructure.
‒ sustainable urban mobility is a key to boost the social and economic conditions in cities whilst preventing growing inequalities and to fight against climate change.
therefore, i fully support the report which in my opinion provides valuable recommendations for the improvement of future sustainable urban areas.
they are plagued by traffic congestion, long commuting times, environmental pollution and inefficient public transport.
let me make one small clarification, however: some members have suggested that in developing the energy union the commission was encroaching on the competences of the member states.
it was the european council that asked the commission to put in place all the rules to guarantee the european union security of energy supply, sustainable energy production and energy at competitive prices.
then there is a lot more to do: harmonizing energy pricing systems, supporting renewable energy systems; enormous harmonization and integration to be done.
but, in addition to this process of developing the energy union, we are in the midst of a major global climate agreement, for which the european union has presented the most ambitious targets, both for greenhouse gas reduction and for energy efficiency and renewables.
all the countries of the world are moving in the same direction: more development of renewable energy, greater energy efficiency and better management of their forest masses.
that's why, and so that we can be a reliable part of this great paris agreement that meets its commitment to reduction, that improves its energy competitiveness and that has a market where consumers benefit.
and, of course, to tackle the issue of energy poverty.
in writing.– the energy union is a recognition of the fact that we require a collective and coherent response which ensures energy security and climate and economic resilience by investing more in low-carbon infrastructure and new technologies.
europe’s energy and climate strategies must be complementary to one another and not contradictory.
we need to attack emissions not energy production.
whilst having a strategy to phase out polluting technologies we need to keep in mind that many of our member states require a transitory period to reach our ultimate aim of having energy produced from renewables.
this fits in with our goal of having a resilient energy union with an ambitious climate policy that gives consumers – households and businesses – secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy.
the visa waiver agreement must be viewed in a wider context as a tool for intensifying cooperation, in which context both parties have a shared interest in stabilising the macro-region and acting as sound and reliable partners in combating terrorism, trafficking in persons and climate change.
this scheme proposes a better long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of fishery resources in the area of the northeast atlantic, bringing lasting results under environmental and social aspects, thus i voted in favour.
i chose to support this proposal as it seeks to amend regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 to incorporate it into union law ensuring sustainable, environmental and social aspects are looked at in fisheries policies.
– the european energy union can ensure that europe has secure, affordable and climate-friendly energy.
in this report particular emphasis is put on aspects relating to energy security, such as the need to diversify energy sources and supply routes.
it also refers to initiatives necessary to accomplish the completion of the internal energy market, which became of core importance with regard to the outcomes of the paris agreement on climate change.
this agreement demonstrates a new global cooperation on climate change with all countries agreeing to progressively ramp up ambition to decarbonise and build climate resilience and gives clarity on direction of travel in the global energy transition.
the energy union can serve as an important basis to reach these goals, and thus i voted in favour.
‒ this report deals with the parliament's response to the commission's energy union strategy, one of the key political priorities of the juncker commission.
the strategy and parliament's report is divided in to the five key dimensions of energy security, a fully-integrated internal energy market, energy efficiency, decarbonisation of the economy and research, innovation and competitiveness.
i have been heavily involved in the legislative process devising the energy union and as i subscribe to the main tenants behind the drive (energy security, access to sustainable energy, addressing energy poverty amongst others) i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the need to diversify energy sources and supply routes within the eu has become of paramount importance to ensure energy security.
i chose to support this report as it looks at addressing these issues as well as putting initiatives in place for the completion of the internal energy market.
‒ i voted in favour of the report ‘towards a european energy union’, which is parliament’s response to the commission energy union strategy, one of the key political priorities of the juncker commission.
the strategy and parliament’s report is divided into the five key dimensions of energy security, a fully-integrated internal energy market, energy efficiency, decarbonisation of the economy and research, innovation and competitiveness.
energy union must ensure the energy transition to a clean, renewable future, while putting citizens centre-stage and ensuring a secure, stable and affordable energy system.
i also think that member states’ competences in term of energy trading should be safeguarded, allowing such member states to establish or deepen their relations with third country partners in the field of energy, of course in full compliance and in line with eu legislation.
– europe needs greater energy security and independence to reduce energy isolation and the possibility of perturbations in the energy system.
to reach these goals we need a holistic approach at eu level, as the eu has to ensure accessible electricity market and facilitate a decentralised energy system.
it was a target originally set by eu heads of state and government in 2002 and should be reached by 2020. keeping in mind malta’s issues in relation to access to energy, and also in view of the recent switching on of the malta-sicily interconnector it is in malta’s interest that such an issue keeps on being given priority on an eu level, hence i voted in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on making europe’s electricity grid fit for 2020, because i believe that the new measures will ensure that europe’s electricity network is properly connected in order to avoid member states being isolated, ensure a true internal energy market as part of the energy union and bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
the cfp promotes and works towards sustainable fishing, thus safeguarding the fish population and the productivity over the long term.
a new structure for technical measures and multiannual plans will ensure the sustainability of the fishing sector and would aid the community to reach its main objectives as stated in the cfp reform.
as i strongly believe in the importance of sustainable fishing and the harmonisation of the fishing sector i have voted in favour of this report.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the new common fishing policy will contribute to the sustainable management of marine resources without burdening the fishing industries of the countries involved as many of the measures are already in place at national level.
mr president, the climate change agreement in paris is the first global deal on climate change, which means that for the very first time we have 195 countries that managed to agree to decouple their economic growth from fossil fuel.
it means that we require credible plans to decarbonise our economies and protect the most vulnerable from the devastating impact of climate change.
it would also have been better to have a specific date for the peaking of emissions.
but what is different this time round is that we have a robust agreement which lays a solid foundation for a more stable and better climate.
taking note that parliament has not been appropriately informed about setting out the common elements for the elaboration of risk assessments, and whereas the transmission of the relevant documents to parliament was not simultaneous, timely and appropriate; keeping in mind that the draft union list fails to address the problem of invasive alien species in a comprehensive manner so as to protect native biodiversity and ecosystem services; i agree that the commission should withdraw its draft implementing regulation and submit a new draft to the parliament in a proper way which addresses concretely the issue of invasive alien species.
the 2020 biodiversity strategy will fail if we won’t fight the real challenges we are currently facing.
‒ i voted in favour of this objection as the draft list does not present a comprehensive list of all problematic alien species or present a strategy for biodiversity for the eu that local authorities, stakeholders and the general public can support.
‒ the report covers generically the relations between eu and china, dealing with political, economic, environmental, social and human rights aspects.
however, given that sexual reproductive health services include a wide range of services which can assist women to have healthy pregnancies and deliveries of their children in a safe and well informed environment i felt the need to vote in favour of such services in these situations to ensure that everyone is given a decent shot at life thanks to a safe delivery.
all of this while remembering about our commitments to the environment.
– i concur that industrial policy must comprise the tools and resources needed to make low-carbon transition a reality, and this can only be done through strategic management of base metals industries and by ensuring that the right tools and resources are available.
we should avoid risks of experiencing what happened in 2008 – with the loss of no less than 60 000 jobs directly and over 100 000 jobs indirectly, resulting in dependency and losses of industrial know-how – through forward planning in the parameters of today’s climate change challenges.
from a climate change perspective, i support a robust emissions trading scheme for the eu that provides a realistic carbon price signal and i consider the revision of the eu ets directive as an opportunity to strengthen the effectiveness of this policy instrument.
however, the impact of the eu ets (and other environment measures) in the european steel industry, compared to other factors (economic, social, labour costs, demand, lack of innovation, lack of proactive action/investment by the sector etc.)
free allocation should be based on clear, objective, quantitative criteria and should be targeted at the sector/sub-sector where carbon leakage is a proven reality.
‒ this draft report highlights the particular vulnerabilities of the base metal industry as well as eu climate and energy policy.
i supported the report as it seeks to help build an efficient framework for these sectors and introduces the carbon border adjustment which is a temporary and flexible measure of international dimensions in line with the wto.
– i voted in favour of the report of edouard martin on developing a sustainable european industry of base metals, with some reservations on the free allocation of carbon leakage.
whilst i strongly support the european base metals industry, i also think that before comparing the impact of the eu ets (and other environment measures) on the european steel industry, first we need to address other factors, such as economic, social, labour costs, demand, lack of innovation, lack of proactive action/investment by the sector, etc.
free allocation rules, in particular to address concerns such as carbon leakage, should not be detrimental to the availability of auctioning rights and should be based on clear, objective, quantitative criteria, targeted only if carbon leakage is a proven reality.
‒ as one of the persons pushing for the setting up of this inquiry committee in the environment committee i supported this vote.
‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam – drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption, whilst taking into account economic, social and environmental progress and the principle of sustainable development, therefore i have voted in favour of the kalniete report on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (protocol to take account of the accession of croatia).
‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam – drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption, whilst taking into account economic, social and environmental progress and the principle of sustainable development, therefore i have voted in favour of the lochbihler report on eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (consent).
‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam – drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption, whilst taking into account economic, social and environmental progress and the principle of sustainable development, therefore i have voted in favour of the lochbihler report on the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (resolution).
i concur with the strong statement made through this motion that so far peace and democratic forces have unfortunately failed to create a functioning and self-sustainable state.
i supported this resolution which notes that successive governments failed to build a fully functioning and self-sustainable state but acknowledges that bosnia and herzegovina has managed to transform itself into an aspiring member of the eu.
more recently i came across council reaffirmations about the importance of establishing a robust, sustainable and cost-efficient regime, while the immediate challenges are to promote the universalisation of the treaty along with its effective implementation by states parties, to which i agree.
this clarification is essential if we are to harbour the spirit of innovation in the field of agriculture, especially in a time of uncertain food security and changing climate conditions.
clearly the situation in burundi has deteriorated dangerously in recent weeks and the security forces continue to disrespect the human rights of burundians, amid a general climate of impunity; daily reports of serious human rights violations, including extrajudicial killings, arbitrary arrests and detentions, torture, attacks on independent media and harassment and killings of human rights defenders, as well as unjustified limitations on the freedoms of peaceful assembly and expression.
it is a site of exploitation of oil and other illegal activities which damage the environment irreversibly and are a threat to many animal species.
in writing.– the oldest national park, a unesco world heritage site, which is globally renowned for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, making it the most biodiverse park in africa is a common heritage protected under the convention on biological diversity.
i agree that the commission and the member states should uphold the integrity of the park and support the drc government in developing sustainable energy and economic alternatives to extractive industries, in improving governance, and in combating poaching, illegal logging, illegal mining and corruption, which are persistent phenomena that risk causing irreversible damage to the park, which, as i said, is of common concern to humankind.
as i believe that we should all be responsible for protecting and preserving the environment i voted in favour of the resolution.
the park is africa’s oldest national park and a unesco world heritage site, and it is globally renowned for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, making it the most biodiverse park in africa.