the turkish prime minister davutoglu is already celebrating that, as in the past, all roads lead to rome, now all energy routes pass through turkey.
russia is also offering to become iran's financial and energy partner.
the party for the animals also voted against the conclusion of an association agreement between the eu and ukraine, which did not guarantee human rights, animal welfare and the protection of nature and the environment.
international security, human rights, democracy and the protection of our environment are always more important than short-sighted trade policy.
i understand that the internet and the energy union require a lot of money, but we also want traditional infrastructure.
today we are debating the 'plane of action for a new international climate agreement in paris'.
it is exemplary of the ostrich policy of the new european commission in all matters relating to climate change.
the commission does not take this problem seriously and follows its own road map: first, she is removing the post of climate change commissioner.
she ignores intensive livestock farming as a major factor in climate change.
it subsidizes overproduction of meat and milk, which is responsible for 14% of greenhouse gas emissions.
4. other it is sticking its head in the sand and denying that the agricultural policy that has been focused on bulk production for years is at odds with a responsible climate policy.
if we really want to address climate change in paris this year, we also need to look at our own food consumption and shift to a more sustainable and plant-based consumption pattern.
better for the climate, better for the environment, and better for animals and people worldwide.
but to develop the european knowledge-based economy with sustainable jobs requires much more resources.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97).
what this house wanted was legislation that was binding on all products and that would also lead to sustainable mining in conflict areas.
i voted against the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and senegal for three obvious reasons: - all fisheries agreements between the eu and developing countries are designed to maximise the exploitation of seas and oceans in order to cover up the failure of the european fisheries policy and to keep the european fishing fleet afloat.
this is at the expense of animals, nature, the environment and the people on the ground.
a crucial tool in geopolitics is energy.
but apart from europe's enormous dependence on energy, we have two other problems: our energy is too polluting and too expensive.
only a strong european energy union can solve these three energy problems.
billions are waiting to be invested in europe's energy infrastructure.
my group very much welcomes the emphasis which the commission is placing on the further completion of the internal energy market.
finally, over the next few years, more than one trillion, or a thousand billion euros, will be invested in energy infrastructure.
those investments have to be good right away, so they're targeted at that low-carbon economy of tomorrow.
the commission will encourage member states to give energy efficiency primary consideration.
then we go to the action points, page 20. apparently the eu has set itself the target of at least 27% energy savings.
if you are correcting those 15 action points, you can change the number to 40%, because then we are together as parliament and commission again and you are putting energy first, efficiency first.
and now, after this report, the european commission wants to deal with energy policy!
these are matters which the countries themselves are dealing with, which the countries themselves can best decide, and that is the only way to manage energy policy in europe in a good way, in the countries themselves.
the energy union strategy offers a distinct opportunity to make our slowly withering climate policy more ambitious.
the commission speaks of leadership and ambition, but time and again the industrial lobby appears to curb this ambition, resulting in a lazy climate policy.
the commission is seeking greater diversification of energy sources, but we can already predict that this will result in more of the same.
can the commission explain to the people of groningen that their misery is necessary for the completion of the european energy union?
why don't you get off fossil fuels and finally get ambitious on climate change?
we need to focus on self-sufficient, renewable energy sources instead of fossil or nuclear.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
people, animals and our environment are literally being poisoned.
i believe that a healthy environment, healthy food, is more important than short-term commercial interests and i would like to know what the commissioner thinks.
the environmental performance is better, there are fewer trucks on the road, there is no negative impact on the maintenance costs of the infrastructure, nor is there any negative impact on road safety.
they are good for sustainability, for road safety, for less emissions, for less environmental impact.
we have very good experiences in the netherlands with ecocombs: positive effects on road safety and improved environmental performance.
there are more and more reports from the german government - i say this to mr ertug - which say that they are good for the environment.
the most important thing is that we take sustainable measures to protect the sea bass during spawning and the spawning areas.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, but has also rejected the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the commissioner malmström also has to be very concerned about the monitoring of the so-called sustainability pact.
international and european trade unions point to a severe anti-trade union climate and a high degree of impunity in the bengali textile industry.
the biodiversity is still declining.
as if overfishing were not enough, we also see that other environmental effects threaten the biodiversity of the baltic sea, such as animal manure, which allows a huge number of algae to grow.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's climate objectives are met.
with the current attitude of the member states in particular, i am convinced that we will not get very far with our climate policy.
if i look at my own country, the netherlands, i see that now, fortunately, economic growth is picking up a little, and carbon emissions are suddenly rising again instead of falling.
that may be the advanced biofuels, but we must link them to sustainability criteria and not make the same mistake as in recent years.
we set a target of 10% for biofuels in the transport sector, but we all know that, if you look at how it has been developing, it mainly concerns the development of agri-fuels, of first-generation biofuels, which are not delivering the climate benefits that they are supposed to do.
no, the problem is that now some of these alternatives are even worse for the climate than the fossil fuels, and then we are really stimulating the wrong one.
it's sustainable and economical.
they produce more and more food with less and less environmental impact.
we all know that plastic bags are one of the major causes of this huge plastic pollution, and many of these birds, fish, turtles and other marine animals have fragments of the 100 billion european plastic bags that we use annually in their stomachs.
first of all, this huge environmental problem is relatively easy to solve and, secondly, there is huge public support for the measures to solve this problem.
i am also very happy that, in the deal we have, there is an obligation for the commission to have biannual reporting on the full climate impact: shipping is more than just co2, and it is good that the commission will also report on that biannually.
we all know that the imo is supposedly working on something, but we all know that this work is going very, very slowly, so my question to the commissioner would be: what are you going to do to make sure that the imo delivers on international shipping, ensures that they really do start reducing their emissions; and if they do not, then what is the commission planning to do about reducing the co2 emissions of shipping?
‒ the abolition of the free bag reduces the amount of plastic waste that ends up in the environment.
each year, some 100 billion plastic bags are used in europe, of which some 8 billion end up in the environment and our seas.
bag waste is a typical example of waste that can be prevented.
however, in this report there are several environmental concerns that are not included in the text, like the biodiversity problems and the multifunctional nature of the forest.
furthermore, the report advocates using forestry and forestry resources for biomass production by the energy industries, which then should be an important part for a future eu energy mix.
this is gonna take a lot more energy.
we produce high quality food and meet the strictest food safety, environmental and animal welfare standards.
it is incomprehensible that the european commission should stand in the way of this sustainable innovation.
food for the planet, energy for life.
with such a theme, the milan world's fair is raising high hopes for sustainability and food security.
it focuses not only on sustainability but also on increasing and intensifying food production.
we need a transition to sustainable, fairly produced local food, and especially a transition from animal to plant food.
‒ mining of minerals that eu countries import often leads to violent conflict, human rights abuses and environmental damage.
another area in which we strongly support and encourage efforts by the turkish government and all other stakeholders is the drive to achieve a comprehensive and sustainable conclusion to the peace process with the kurdish community.
these are foreign and security policy, anti-terrorism, energy security and also, of course, specifically, the field of fundamental rights.
they don't have to waste time.
we do have plans for an energy union, because energy prices are of course much higher than in other parts of the world.
secondly, by sustainable international supply chains with compulsory corporate responsibility for what happens in their supply chain.
but it is also an attack on nature, on the climate and on the animals, which are being kept in ever more massive stables.
but it is also for nature, for the climate and for the animals, who are locked up en masse in ever-expanding mega-cages.
by doing this, we're reducing the climate impact of intensive livestock farming and giving children healthier food choices.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, after thanking the two rapporteurs, i would like to broaden the scope of this debate towards the general debate on climate change, and the headlines in today’s newspapers.
in quoting the newspapers i would like to praise chancellor merkel for her leadership not only at the g7 but also on the energy transition in germany.
but these are words, words and more words – and the words are not new, because in 2007 the g7 embraced the target of not exceeding two degrees centigrade, and in 2008, at the climate conference in cancún, the same was done.
turning to the eu and to the commissioner, it is extremely important that the commission should come forward with its revision of the emissions trading scheme (ets) proposal before the summer, because that will be crucial in terms of our own road to paris.
we are reducing our emissions by 2050 – with a total shift in our energy system.
so it all sounds great, and indeed we have to thank chancellor merkel for getting some of those words in, but at the same time we know that climate change will not stop because of words.
on the question of the transformation of the energy sector, i do not see why the commission is, at the same time, going to north africa and doing a lot of deals on gas – giving us a huge lock-in to gas – whereas we are talking about decarbonisation for the longer term.
the g7 has decided to spend 90 billion euros to combat the alleged global warming, promising that it will not exceed 2°c compared to 1990. it takes a lot of guts to call these kinds of hard numbers.
and it is the taxpayer, the hardworking middle class in the netherlands and elsewhere, who will see their energy bill rise.
the first climate refugees have already been identified.
you may know the beautiful artwork by the spanish artist isaac cordal, called "politicians discussing global warming".
let us set a good example, let us take the lead up to the climate conference in paris and ratify the doha report today.
it is good that we started at 3 o’clock with the climate debate and are now having an energy security debate.
maybe we could have merged those two discussions because, very clearly, energy security and climate protection can – and should – go hand in hand.
therefore, if one really takes this seriously, it is a clear agenda for energy efficiency – the fastest, cheapest way of reducing our dependence on energy – and renewables.
maybe there is still someone asking about nuclear energy; well, i would say, go to finland or hungary where they are building nuclear – or want to build nuclear – and are now deeply dependent on russian technology and russian uranium.
so that is no longer any help in terms of energy security.
europe is torn between a national energy mix, a desired climate policy and a heavy reliance on external suppliers of fossil fuels, often from countries with dubious regimes.
this field of tension makes energy in europe expensive, polluting and also unsafe.
now that we have set out the ambitions for a green, cheap and secure energy supply, the time has come for action to shed the patchwork of national and private interests and to arrive at a common interest.
that starts with a decent price for pollution.
let us choose the european approach and european investment to achieve a secure, sustainable and also cheap energy.
it has strong paragraphs about the transition to a low-carbon energy mix.
at the same time, there is still room for fossil fuels in the transition period, so that energy security and stability are not compromised.
i do not consider the use of shale gas as a safe option at this time because of the environmental risks.
let us instead devote our energies to the further development of truly renewable sources of energy.
nevertheless – and of course, given these circumstances, we had a huge discussion in the group – from a green perspective, we do see a very clear direction for sustainability, for jobs, and that is what is needed.
i think we are at the same level in the tax debate as we were in the boardrooms 15 years ago in the environmental debate.
it was not only about the environment but was maybe more about the economy.
we must think about how we will deal with our raw materials and our waste, because this is where the great opportunities and challenges lie for the coming years.
we've come a long way in the recycling of our waste.
the waste incineration plants are also recycling a lot, especially in the netherlands.
incineration releases waste and valuable raw materials.
waste is separated before it is incinerated or recycled.
billions have already been invested in waste management.
so finally allow the use of mineral concentrate, include it in a fertiliser regulation and remove it from the waste legislation.
our environmental, food safety, labour and other standards are cherished and cannot be lowered.
a negotiated outcome can count on our support if basic social rights are also recognised in the us, if it is clear that ttip will create jobs for us and what is being done for the workers affected, if our european standards on consumer protection and the environment are not undermined, if public services such as education and health care are excluded, and if there are no private isds tribunals for investors to sue countries.
europe should become a europe that is addressing inequalities and moving towards a social europe and a sustainable europe.
if there is to be a carbon tax, it must be on the dangerous talk of these bureaucrats.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
we do not want to see standards lowered in areas such as the environment or food safety, no hormone-based meat on the european market, no chlorinated chickens and no genetically modified products.
european legislation to protect citizens and the environment will not be sacrificed for free trade.
providing a good investment climate, clear and reliable regulation and fair investment protection is important.
‒ the sp is in favour of an economy in which as much waste as possible is reused.
‒ the sp is in favour of an economy in which as much waste as possible is reused.
with our strong commitment to human rights, the eu is spending about eur 410 million between 2014 and 2020. we call on cambodia’s authorities not only to respect human rights but to appreciate the vital role for liberties that a flourishing civil society has and represents as an integral part of sustainable development and growth, and to appreciate that the two should go hand in hand.
the ecosystems in our seas are being disrupted by pollution.
we must abandon the naive belief in growth and take as a starting point the sustainability of the earth and the well-being of all its inhabitants.
whether it's smart mobility in those cities or sustainable forms of energy generation.
the european parliament has also called for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
could that be related to climate change?
they are part of god's creation and vital to the ecosystem.
at the same time, the transport sector must become more sustainable.
the transport sector accounts for 24% of pollution in europe, the energy sector for 29%.
sustainability is not only a threat, but also an opportunity for innovation and innovation in the transport sector, and that is what we will have to work on for the next 10 to 20 years.
and if you look at reducing the environmental pollution from the transportation sector.
the commissioner said it: we must move towards a new balance of fewer rules, more sustainability, more earning capacity, but we must not forget the social aspect either.
any more fishing is bad for biodiversity.
such policies not only harm animals, nature and the environment, but also the local people on earth.
any more fishing is bad for biodiversity.
such policies not only harm animals, nature and the environment, but also the local people on earth.
any more fishing is bad for biodiversity.
such policies not only harm animals, nature and the environment, but also the local people on earth.
now the commission, in all its wisdom, has decided to combine these three problem cases, these three failures into an übermissal and put the image of climate refugee on it.
so i ask you: stop this nonsense, stop the waste and return the money to its rightful owner.
in my previous term i was in the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of this parliament.
but since we are discussing coherence, is it also true for the sustainable development goals?
sustainable access to water and reducing inequality are issues and challenges for us in europe as well.
i would also like to hear more concrete details from the commission on what we are going to do to make sure that europe achieves the sustainable development goals.
because, as mary robinson said, if paris is going to fail we are going to fail on delivering on the sustainable development goals.
given the seriousness of the issue and the fact that it touches upon environmental policy, competition policy, governance and maybe other issues as well, and given that there are four committees involved in his issue, we would like to know why the commission has not met our request to send vice-president timmermans for the debate.
fortunately, democratic opposition in the european union to the waste of freedom, security and future is growing by the day, as 66% of the dutch people think that the netherlands should not take in any more refugees.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, 11 million buyers of volkswagen diesel cars, of which 8 million are in europe, have been cheated, but many more have been exposed to severe air pollution due to the additional emissions of roughly 1 million tonnes of nox.
so firstly, i expect the commission to now stop stalling the process and to have a new real-driving emissions (rde) test up and running within six months.
several reports, including a report from the commission’s own research body, the jrc, reported unexplainable differences between real emissions on the road and the laboratory test results.
madam president, i think i could summarise the commissioner’s eight-minute speech as ‘we are on top of it, sleep well parliament, do not be afraid.’ that is how i summarise your speech, madam commissioner, and i really have a problem there because, to give just one simple example, when the us environmental protection agency was investigating, was there no contact at all between washington and brussels on what they were doing, and did your staff not know anything?
it is important that we get these real-world emissions tests as soon as possible.
we, and especially our colleagues in the committee on the environment, will welcome all such proposals.
what just happened is from the environmental protection agency.
we have always wanted to take account of the environment, employment and health.
but what about the actual emissions of american and asian cars, among others?
in europe, we have always wanted to know, before the current scandal, the real driving emissions.
the commission has therefore been working on the proposal for a law on emissions in real driving conditions for some time.
our suspicions about emissions measurements are now confirmed.
our car production is a worldwide symbol of craftsmanship and quality, as well as environmental quality.
all sectors must contribute to reducing emissions.
this piece of legislation completes the circle as far as i am concerned and also regulates the emissions of medium combustion plants, as was the case before with the large combustion plants.
the aim is to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen and particulate matter, which have a major impact on air quality and public health.
we have also managed to avoid overlapping with other regulations, thus avoiding duplication of legislation with, for example, the directive on industrial emissions.
we have been discussing source emissions quite a lot today.
it will address 20% of the emissions under the national emissions ceiling.
we are talking today about reducing the emissions of certain air pollutants by means of large combustion plants, gas turbines, emergency generators, mobile power systems on islands, in the countryside, in agriculture and in workplaces, matters which concern many people.
our environmental ambition, and i am clearly in favour of it, must not be reduced to blind fanaticism, indiscriminate.
that is why there was broad support from many groups in the committee on the environment for some exceptions in places where the air quality is already good.
since the previous speakers have already laid so much emphasis on the 'polluter pays' principle, i would like to emphasize paragraph 17 in which we are talking about a european commission proposal for a law to introduce environmental inspections at eu level, something we have already agreed to in the seventh environment action programme.
the council draft conclusions also mention the aim of developing safe and sustainable reception capacities in the affected regions and providing lasting prospects for refugees.
another thing i like very much in this report is the linking of the revenues to the green climate fund, and that brings another question for the commissioner.
we know that the mandate for climate financing will be determined by the ecofin council in november.
one final point on the long-term target for 2050 – phasing out carbon emissions – mainly to my ppe colleagues.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i think we all know the immense importance of the climate summit in paris – even the ecr, mr duncan – and it is absolutely crucial that we reach a very ambitious, legally-binding, comprehensive agreement there, an agreement that goes beyond the indcs that are being collected now – because we all know that, if we add them up, we will never stay below the 2 degrees centigrade, as the commissioner has already said.
one of the crucial elements, again, will be international climate finance, and it will maybe be the sole case that can make or break the agreement in paris.
europe could be the broker of such a deal, but unfortunately, in the council mandate for paris, the climate commitments after 2020 are missing.
apparently there was no agreement yet, when the climate ministers came together in september, among the ministers of finance for this very crucial finance.
we set aside a number of allowances from the emissions trading scheme (ets) to create a fund, an eu international climate action reserve that will raise revenues in a fair way and will create a fund independent of national governments.
i would like to draw attention to the large and damaging role played by the business lobby in the creation of the climate agreement at the end of this year.
the importance of this role was painfully clear to me when i heard that aviation and shipping were removed from the latest draft climate agreement, when these sectors together account for as much as 8 percent of co2 emissions.
the fossil fuel industry is engaged in a massive greenwashing campaign to distract attention from its large contribution to global warming.
and then there are the official sponsors of the climate conference: renault-nissan, coca cola, gdf suez, avril, all of which are major polluters.
(the president cut the speaker off)
soon thousands of people will be flying business class to paris to talk about the climate over a glass of champagne.
stop this climate summit and return the money to its rightful owner: the people who pay taxes.
i hope that the paris climate agreement will be reached, but we are far from there.
sustainability is the new buzzword in politics, but also in business.
as politicians, we need to start recognising that there is no contradiction between an ambitious climate agreement and a viable climate for our businesses.
now, this is a great opportunity to... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing.– to maintain a liveable earth we have to halt climate change now.
as one of the main culprits of climate change, europe carries a great responsibility in achieving global binding agreements on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
regrettably, the report ‘towards a new international climate agreement’ only contains one single paragraph on agriculture, whose impact on climate change cannot be overstated enough.
especially, the negative impact of meat production on climate change persists, and prospects for the future are grim.
there is a clear link between livestock farming and global warming.
meat and dairy production are responsible for at least 14% of all our greenhouse gas emissions.
it would be negligent to not tackle this issue when fighting climate change – especially when we realise that people and animals in the poorer areas of the world will be affected first and the worst, owing to extreme weather conditions due to climate change.
let the eu stop this useless and costly waste.
as mrs crețu has also said, these are knowledge, innovation, the digital economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, the low-carbon and blue economy, energy and social inclusion, including for refugees.
on the side, there are still efforts to protect animal welfare, food safety and the environment, but these measures are contradictory, fragmented and often overtaken by reality.
the welfare of animals, the environment and food safety, which are important european values, cannot be guaranteed.
how are we going to feed our population in a sustainable way if we don't think about new ways and how we can achieve that?
european air quality is affected by methane emissions in third countries.
number one: methane is primarily a greenhouse gas and is therefore already regulated through climate targets.
the commission has already reduced methane emissions in europe by almost a third.
we can reduce methane emissions from ruminants like cows and sheep through feed, but the only way to actually capture methane is to put animals back in the barn, and that's when society is asking us to keep the animals out.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions of the european union.
we might disagree on some issues in relation to air quality policies, but ms girling was a fair negotiator and a fair rapporteur, and we were able to reach a good position in the committee on environment, public health and food safety.
what the environment committee has produced is balanced, ambitious and pragmatic, and that is very important.
we have a european parliament impact assessment available showing that, with the same cost effectiveness, we can reduce our emissions more, and deliver more on public health.
but when the european commission starts to interfere with figures, and in this case with the monitoring and standardization of emissions, then the damp sweat of fear breaks out in me.
air pollution is a very dangerous killer and we know that in europe thousands of people die prematurely every year from particulate matter.
substances such as methane are already regulated in the climate package and i do not think that double regulation is desirable.
the inclusion of methane in the proposal constitutes a serious constraint on the reduction of greenhouse gases.
since 1990, ammonia emissions have fallen by 30% in europe and by 66% in the netherlands.
this is mainly due to the heavy efforts of family farms, which have suffered greatly under the environmental measures.
‒ the vvd delegation believes that emission ceilings for methane have no place in the directive on national emissions of air pollutants.
methane is a greenhouse gas and is already regulated in climate objectives agreements, including the effort sharing decision.
it gives member states the flexibility to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on the basis of co2 equivalents.
the vvd delegation welcomed the exclusion of methane emissions from ruminants but would have preferred that methane was not included in the european parliament's position at all.
because yes, we want policies that help stabilize the economy and at the same time we want policies that make government debt sustainable.
it is not only better for health but also better for tourism, for the transport sector and for saving energy.
in an age of energy-saving light bulbs, lighting costs are now much less, while energy-consuming air conditioners last much longer in the summer.
i'm sorry for all the trees that died because of this waste of paper.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner šefčovič for pushing the energy union, because we know that one of the biggest problems we have in europe, causing the high energy price, is the fragmented market.
that is the real reason why the energy price is so high, and that is exactly what you are trying to address.
so we are giving a lot of subsidies, and within the eu emissions trading scheme (ets) we are even giving free allowances until 2030. the eu is not leading on coal, and my very clear question to the commission is this: what are you going to do, specifically, to make sure that our coal dependency goes down?
is it not about time to start discussing that issue instead of the renewables where the prices go down, where people have own ownership of energy?
let’s face it: the competitiveness of our industry is also one of the central themes in the whole debate on the energy union, and it is obvious that europe needs cheap, clean and independent energy.
we see that new disruptive technologies are overhauling europe’s energy system.
prices of solar technology are dropping sharply and energy efficiency is decoupling economic growth from our energy use.
key to affordable energy is giving certainties to investors.
energy infrastructure requires large, risky capital-intensive investments, and only governance arrangements based on eu legal mechanisms can create this stability and predictability.
the current energy union is still far away from legislative action based on democratic decision-making.
the energy union is, unfortunately, based on voluntary submissions from member states, and the commission should be more ambitious here.
they seem to prefer having full ownership of their own national energy policies with expensive pollutive energy systems to being part of a full-scale european approach with astronomical benefits, and the absence of the council here today is exemplary.
let us care about jobs and growth in europe and push our member states towards a true european energy union.
good health and a decent working environment are fundamental social rights in europe.
an ambitious policy on health and safety at work contributes to the productivity of companies and thus also to the sustainability of our social security systems, whereas the costs of not having such a policy are very high.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances is a good one.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, it is one year since the political blunder of withdrawing the waste package, and now we know where we stand.
we have, first of all, a new legislative waste proposal which is slightly weaker than the one we had before, and i assume that the commission expects parliament to increase the level of ambition and to pick up the fight with the council.
but europe must provide direction, direction when it comes to meeting climate and environmental objectives, to promoting traffic flow and safety, and to allowing cities in europe to learn from each other.
so let's make a commitment in europe to raising awareness as a step towards more sustainable urban mobility.
we're talking about refugees, and we're talking about climate, because these people are coming here because the climate is getting worse.
we need to give more development aid, because the climate is getting worse, and we need to give more development aid, because the refugees are coming here, one big brick so that no one understands it anymore.
but when it comes to climate change: i come from the netherlands, the country that is the most vulnerable because it lies almost entirely a whole lot below sea level.
modern economies run on carbon-free nuclear energy, on oil or gas or coal.
because industrial societies require energy, and that was the case before the european union existed.
the eu's energy policy is based on article 194 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which states - quite sensibly - that member states are responsible for their own energy supply.
it is explicitly stated that the european union may not interfere with the exploitation of the energy resources of a member state, nor with the choice of energy sources of a member state, nor with the structure of its energy supply.
but the european commission has come up with plans for a common energy union, and it must also deal with poverty reduction and climate action in addition to energy.
firstly, this paragraph is merely positive about the opportunities that an energy chapter in ttip could bring to the eu, without naming the concerns, reservations or conditions to be attached to such a chapter.
the energy chapter of the trade agreement with the usa should also deal with products which pollute the environment, such as shale gas and tar sands oil.
this paragraph did not meet the concerns of the european parliament's pvda delegation, but we do not want to reject the inclusion of an energy chapter in ttip, which is why i abstained.
it is an irreversible step towards a low—carbon economy and – even more importantly – it is a huge signal to the financial world that only zero-carbon solutions will pay off.
the climate agreement was adopted by consensus in paris last saturday.
never before have 195 countries pledged to work on climate change.
but i also think the fossil fuel industry lobbyists are getting a big christmas bonus because of this climate deal.
we're not going to stop producing carbon, we're going to capture it and store it.
we need to move away from fossil fuels and towards alternative, sustainable sources of energy.
we need to be wise and more economical with our energy.
let's commit to a 50% reduction in co2 emissions by 2030.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank commissioner arias cañete for his job well done in paris.
that means something, because all eu policies at this moment are based on the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) scenario that gives a 50% chance of staying below 2°c.
if the international civil aviation organisation (icao) does not deliver next year, then that means the eu will re-include aviation in the emissions trading scheme right away.
because the green entrepreneurs, as they like to call themselves, will see their profits increase with the environmental demands in their hands; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we share with china the same interest in stability concerning the political environment and the economic and financial environment, and we share the interest of keeping the world economy stable.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
that's important for biodiversity, that's important for innovation in this sector.
because if we continue down this path, we're going to create monopoly positions in our food supply, and those positions of power and the resulting loss of biodiversity are threats to our food security here and elsewhere in the world.