the criteria used to assess the risk to the environment will be updated shortly.
it is clear that every politician must consider the environmental, health, and above all the emotional and cultural aspects that exist in our countries.
this is of particular importance for my country, poland, because the great diversity, the biodiversity of agricultural soils in poland and the absence of gmos are a great asset for the promotion of healthy nutrition and the export of very high quality polish agricultural products.
it is important to inform the public about what gmos really are and what effects they can have on agriculture, the environment and health.
genetically modified crops pose a risk to the environment and to human and animal health.
genetically modified crops pose a threat to the environment and to human and animal health.
the ban on gmo crops remains a choice, depending on the local environmental situation and social attitudes.
the new rules will allow countries such as poland, where agriculture is based on traditional, organic farming methods, to exploit the full ecological and health potential of crops.
the gfcm recommendations adopted in 2011 and 2012 go beyond the protection already granted to these species at eu level under the habitats directive and other union acts and provide for specific obligations with regard to registration and reporting, so their incorporation into community law will contribute to the sustainable development of the marine environment and fish stocks.
this challenge is the energy situation in europe, especially in the countries of central and eastern europe.
this is very dangerous for our economy, this is very dangerous for many european economies, especially in the age of the climate package that has been adopted by the eu countries and accepted by the european council, and if there is no intervention, solidarity intervention within the eu countries on this issue, and financial assistance, it will lead to the loss of not hundreds, not thousands, not hundreds of thousands, but perhaps even more than a million jobs by eliminating many industries, especially the energy industry.
i wanted to make an appeal today, but at the same time i wanted to ask a question, to make an appeal that the juncker plan, in the era of the adopted climate package, take into account the need for changes in the energy economy, take into account the need for necessary changes in the extractive industry, take into account them in the financial aspect, so that there is money for the modernisation of european energy, especially in those countries which, as a result of decades of communist governments, are still far behind today in terms of economic development, compared to the strong, large countries of the old european union.
i am calling for this and asking whether juncker's plan will take these needs into account, or will we in poland and in the countries of central and eastern europe see images like today's in poland of crying people, desperate miners, desperate people from the energy sector who are in real danger of losing their jobs?
i also stress the importance of investments in the energy sector.
we have different understandings of the energy basket, but we believe that energy security should come primarily from the resources of the european 28 member states, of which mr verhofstadt spoke here.
what is happening in silesia is a consequence of the polish government's zealous implementation of the eu's climate policy.
meanwhile, the waste of women's knowledge and talents is reducing the competitiveness of the european economy.
if we change these rules during the game - we have recently discussed among other things the reform of carbon dioxide emission allowances - it will also indicate that the recipients, and therefore also the industry and therefore the citizens, will not be happy about it.
i also welcome the emphasis on the importance of implementing the objectives of the energy union.
the first concerns the union's energy security, the second the provision of jobs and a decent standard of living for its citizens.
i'm talking about sustainability here first and foremost.
the union's food and energy security is undoubtedly the basis for further action.
it is an investment on the one hand in our own stability and security – and in our prosperity as well, because those of you who may have been in this room at the beginning of the session at 3 p.m. will have heard a long debate about the fact that there are no divisions, no limits and no borders between internal and external threats, and if we do not invest in reaching the objectives we have for development – for sustainable development – and for equality in the world, the threats to our security and also the limits to our economic development will just grow and grow.
the second point on which we will need very close coordination, not only within the commission but also with the council, is in managing the mix, the balance, between financing for sustainable development and financing for the climate.
we have a unique opportunity to address the global challenges of poverty, education and sustainable development.
we are also on the threshold of another roadmap, the new sustainable development goals.
the environment is under increasing pressure, with developing countries particularly suffering from the effects of climate change.
it is necessary to inform how an outward-looking union can contribute to sustainability on a global scale.
the changes in the country should primarily concern constitutional reform and decentralisation, judicial reform, changes to the electoral law and improving and making more transparent the business climate.
unfortunately, the european parliament's political groups have not been able to reach an agreement on the european commission's work programme for 2015, despite its projects such as the investment plan, the european energy union and the digital single market.
i hope that the commission will succeed in creating the basis for sustainable economic growth and thereby reduce unemployment, especially among young people.
in addition, we as a parliament look forward to working closely together on the ttip negotiations so that our social, consumer and environmental standards are included in the new agreement.
i voted in favour of resolutions which aim to reduce eu bureaucracy, replace eu acts with member states' laws, fight corruption and waste of funds, and have a responsible and decisive migration policy.
i am in favour of rethinking the current european climate and energy policy and of condemning any eu legislation that imposes administrative burdens and introduces additional bureaucratic obstacles for smes, the main source of jobs and growth.
i hope it will also provide a stimulus for the community's economy to continue to develop in a sustainable way.
we don't have time to waste.
i hope that the projects selected will be truly strategic and have a high added value in terms of creating new, sustainable jobs.
mr posler, you call our climate policy ambitious, but do you realise that it is the poorer countries of the european union, those countries with the least money to develop new technologies, that are paying for this ambition?
we are talking about reducing emissions at the moment, we are talking about the fact that we want, as the european union, to encourage the rest of the world to do the same.
the problem is that our plan that we want to implement, which is to reduce emissions by 40%, is a plan that is basically not accepted by the rest of the world - let's call it what it is - which will make the european economy much less competitive in this perspective.
is it not better to allocate the money from the juncker plan to investments in energy, in improving energy efficiency, today?
if the major emitters of the world do not accept what the european union is proposing in paris, which is to reduce emissions, then i think we should revise our climate policy.
they will not bring any significant reduction in emissions in the global context, because by 2030 we will be responsible for 4% of global emissions.
on the one hand, this will weaken our competitiveness, especially in energy-intensive sectors, and on the other hand, it will damage our energy security, which is particularly dangerous for poland and other new member states in the face of russia's aggression against ukraine.
it must be said clearly for poland, a 40% reduction in co2 emissions is an absurd, unrealistic and deadly condition.
over the next few years, the price of energy in poland will increase by at least 30%.
we'll be forced to buy green energy from germany, nuclear from france or gas from russia.
this is what polish energy security will look like in practice.
so who's going to pay for the cost of polish unemployment, the cost of co2 emissions, the cost of more expensive energy?
and all because there are a few lunatics who insist that climate change is man-made and a few smart guys who have decided to profit from this superstition.
it's not a human issue, one eruption of vesuvius can introduce a lot more greenhouse gases.
the ultimate elimination of polish mining is in the interest of big world capital, because it ensures the energy independence of our country and cheap competitive energy.
the polish government should understand this and finally decide on the future of polish energy.
it must not succumb to pressure from the various european and global climate and energy lobby groups, including financial and gas lobby groups.
we need to convince europe of the need for a true, united and fair energy union, which would be a renaissance of coal, the need for real energy efficiency and the need to negotiate gas prices together, demonstrating the complete nonsense of the so-called "carbon-free" economy.
the assembly actively monitors developments in the political, economic and social situation in the acp states, seeking to promote development goals and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including respect for fundamental social rights, democracy based on the rule of law and transparent and accountable governance, which are integral to sustainable development.
the natural energy and entrepreneurship of europeans is blocked by a dead administration and a growing bureaucracy.
therefore, only a bold decision can put europe back on the path to sustainable economic growth and prosperity for europeans.
the convention restores the situation to the state it was in before the abduction, unless it is contrary to the best interests of the child (the child has been adopted into a new environment).
i voted in favour of the draft agreement and protocol on a partnership on sustainable fisheries between the european union and the republic of senegal.
the european union established relations with the republic of senegal in the fisheries area on 1 june 1981 and the renewed protocols concluded in 2002 expired in 2006. the commission has therefore initiated the renewal of the agreement between the republic of senegal and the european union, which has resulted in the proposal for the conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement.
given the opportunities for senegal's economy to develop through the rational use of available resources, in line with the principles of sustainable fisheries and best industry practices, the new agreement and protocol are mutually beneficial based on available fish stocks and future opportunities for cooperation on other species, and taking into account the opportunity to develop the local fishing industry in partnership with eu vessels, while providing the eu market with high quality fishery products.
i believe that regional authorities should be one of the key partners in the drive to reduce poverty and achieve sustainable development.
this is the moment when it can create a real and solid energy policy, based not on guarantees and promises but on the creation of legal solutions guaranteeing the sovereignty of countries cooperating with each other to ensure energy security.
this cooperation should consist in investing as soon as possible in infrastructure to diversify the supply of energy resources and in the development of domestic conventional and non-conventional energy sources.
i therefore call on the commission and the council to build a real energy union that meets the challenges of the future and is the foundation of the energy security of the member states.
i would like to call in particular on the president of the council, donald tusk, who, when he was running for office, promised to make every effort to achieve the energy union.
he promised a gas solidarity mechanism, joint energy purchases, coal rehabilitation and a radical diversification of energy supply sources, including a new gas policy.
we have changed trains today from the european energy community to the energy union.
the purpose has not changed: secure, sustainable and affordable energy for our citizens and businesses.
secondly, we need to expand the energy union to the neighbourhood countries of the energy community and observers, such as turkey.
thirdly, we need efficient governance of the energy union.
as you know very well, parliament has always expressed its strong support for a more integrated energy policy.
we, in this parliament, should play an important role in the creation of the energy union and we are ready for such a responsibility.
without the energy union, it will not be possible to achieve competitiveness, economic growth and the creation of jobs in the eu.
our citizens will not feel secure from the fear that energy, as a political weapon, will be in use in the years to come.
so let us create the energy union.
when donald tusk initiated the debate on the energy union, he proposed joint purchases of gas from russia and the rehabilitation of coal.
i see no reason to support the energy union in this form.
let us build the energy union on the principles of equity and solidarity, not on a pact between the rich and the rich at the expense of the poor.
the country i represent has been convinced for many years of the need for an energy union.
first, energy security is not only an economic but also a political issue.
and of course, the rehabilitation of our own energy sources, which are the lowest risk, as our own resources.
no energy source should be discriminated against, we should not discriminate against different technologies of extraction, processing, from oil, gas, coal, to renewable energy sources, if they improve energy security and do not cause environmental risks.
the current energy governance process in the eu is bad and chaotic, dominated by the climate priority.
this unilateral approach is damaging the energy security of some eu countries, including poland, and is also threatening them with energy poverty.
energy policy needs to be reassessed and the excessive, poorly documented european climate policy needs to be separated from the real energy policy.
the lobbying of current climate and energy policy is driven by the economic interests of some member states and the large multinational gas and financial corporations fighting against coal.
the energy union should lead to a revision of the current climate and energy package, which in its current form creates unfair economic competition between member states.
energy security, the fight against poverty, solidarity and transparency in the negotiation of gas and other energy prices purchased in third countries, and the promotion of the use of local energy sources, including coal, should be priorities for the energy union.
decarbonization should be based on energy efficiency gains in conversion processes and final efficiency, rather than on administratively imposed reduction rates and a dysfunctional eu ets.
i believe that the energy union project announced today by the european commission is one of the milestones on the road to european integration.
particularly in the current geopolitical situation, enhancing energy security and diversifying energy sources and supplies are of fundamental importance.
i am therefore pleased that the european commission has taken a favourable view of shale gas extraction in its energy union project.
we still have a lot of work to do to integrate the 28 energy markets into one energy union.
the events in ukraine, syria and libya have highlighted the problem of the union's energy security.
the risks posed by the fact that member states buy most of their energy from external suppliers have been pointed out for years, but little has been done to eliminate them.
it is therefore to be commended that the new european commission has embarked so quickly on the construction of an energy union within the european union.
first, the commission is only now considering the options for joint purchases of energy raw materials.
given that such a solution would only be available during the energy crisis on a voluntary basis for companies dependent on a single supplier and additionally controlled for compliance with wto rules, i do not understand why such a solution has not already been proposed.
secondly, one of the pillars of the energy union, decarbonising the eu's energy mix, cannot mean fighting coal, but only fighting greenhouse gas emissions.
we must remember that some member states will continue to base their energy policy on their own coal resources for some time to come.
as regards the support for the use of own energy resources, the communication mentions such support, but only for renewable energy, whereas poland refers to coal and shale gas.
most of the communication is about climate policy, and it's a watered-down version.
the ambitious climate policy of deep decarbonisation of the economies of individual eu countries, pushing renewable energy much more expensive than conventional energy, are the main strategic intentions of the eu as set out in the communication.
the commission's proposal for a european energy union is strongly opposed by the polish members of the ecr group.
the role of the european parliament must be to motivate the council, the commission and the member states to take wider action to promote national and union-wide energy security, which may be influenced by, inter alia, the establishment of a common gas market and the implementation of infrastructure projects to link national transmission networks (construction of interconnecting pipelines) in order to respond effectively to, for example, sudden disruptions in national supply.
this is why the priority of european commission president jean-claude juncker to reform and reorganise european energy policy by combining european resources, infrastructure and european negotiating power in talks with third countries to diversify energy sources and reduce energy dependence of eu member states is so important and worth supporting that, for whatever reasons, commercial or political, europe is able to change its supply channels quickly.
the energy union aims to ensure security, resilience to potential supply problems and decision-making about the flow of energy.
reliable, sustainable and competitive energy is a topic that no eu country can currently tackle fully autonomously.
to meet today's challenges, the european union needs an integrated energy policy.
dependence on a single energy supplier is not a stable and secure solution, for example due to the current political circumstances.
the creation of an energy union would provide self-sufficiency, security, lower energy costs and improved energy efficiency.
the energy union can become a tool to protect key sectors of the economy.
investment in energy infrastructure, conventional and non-conventional energy sources and energy efficiency are certainly important issues.
a common internal energy market with a high-quality infrastructure would be an opportunity for mutual assistance between member states, guaranteeing a constant supply to all customers.
this is of fundamental importance in relation to energy prices affecting the economic development of the union.
we are very far behind the competition in this area, and above all in energy prices compared to the united states.
the union's approach to climate policy is not optimistic, being treated as an ideology, leaving little room for competition.
i am therefore surprised that the members who are talking about so-called social dumping have not raised the issue of energy dumping in the recent debate on the energy union.
competition policy plays a strategic role in strengthening the comprehensive approach to the single market to address the economic, social and environmental challenges facing europe today.
in the course of the 2014 transport council, poland proposed the implementation of specific solutions to support transport companies that have been affected by the russian embargo, such as the application of a higher rate of permitted public aid or support for operators that decide to withdraw part of their rolling stock due to environmental factors.
it is therefore important that the revised rules deliver the expected results, such as increased safety, reduced energy consumption, reduced greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector and adaptation to the realities of technical progress and the use of good technologies, including in particular alternative powertrains, and improved aerodynamic characteristics of vehicles.
one such condition is that the aim is to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of such vehicles.
the main aim of the current amendment is therefore to increase the permissible weight and dimensions of trucks, but only to the extent that manufacturers can create environmentally friendly structures and install equipment to reduce emissions.
i support the draft directive because i believe that its implementation will improve road safety and reduce environmental pollution.
the new shape of the driver's cabin also reduces the impact energy in the event of a collision.
solutions that reduce fuel consumption and reduce emissions are also worth supporting.
creating an investment climate is essential and in order to create an investment climate, remaining regulatory barriers – including those that might have been generated by recent additions to the financial regulatory framework like solvency ii – as well as imperfections in capital markets, will have to be eliminated promptly.
after a period of drastic tightening of the belt during the crisis, it is time to revive growth so that europe becomes a strong economy with sustainable growth and social inclusion.
we also have a lot of work to do in the area of competition policy in the area of equitable access to energy resources.
‒ competition policy and competitiveness itself are essential for sustainable development and the overall well-being of the eu and its citizens.
we are going to have a very difficult year and the environment is also very complicated.
i am listening to this debate and, as far as the energy union is concerned, one thing is clear from it, ladies and gentlemen: it is obvious from the data we have heard 53% of our energy is imported, it is 40% more expensive than in the united states that the decarbonisation demand and the policy towards this direction, towards basically only renewable energy sources, is putting out the fire with gasoline, because it will lead to the collapse of the european economy, and as far as the prices that european citizens pay today for electricity are concerned, i assure you that they will not fall, but will increase significantly, not to mention the hundreds of thousands of jobs that we will lose in the european forest.
we should therefore pursue a sensible policy, and the sensible policy in this case is a policy of respecting technological neutrality, of using those energy sources that member states have today.
of course, taking into account the need to develop new technologies, but these technologies already exist, also in the field of coal combustion, and at the same time moving towards climate protection, but in a sensible and safe way for the european economy.
this is my great call for such action in the energy union in the years ahead.
the union should be as energy-sovereign as possible, that is obvious, but let us remember that this also means increasing our domestic energy production.
as stated here on behalf of the council, the march council is primarily an economic council, but i think there is a strong political component here, because the question of the energy union is not only an economic dimension but above all a political dimension, important for all member states.
we need this strategy, we need energy security, we also need the future shape of energy, it should have both its external dimension and also be based on the eu's own energy market.
we remember those times when solidarity was lacking and many member states, many societies suffered from energy shortages.
the energy union cannot be reduced to a mere revision of the regulation on the security of gas supply.
the key element will be transparency and the involvement of the european commission in the negotiation and signing of energy agreements with third countries, but i think the final model could be joint supply negotiations.
we should talk about the integration of energy networks and energy markets, the integration of gas networks, but also the development of energy based on own resources.
let us not forget the strength of the european union, which includes its own resources, whether renewable, conventional or alternative.
the priority for poland is to build energy independence, we understand this very well.
i would have expected a more specific timetable for the creation of the energy union.
because if energy prices in the us are 40% lower than in the eu, what does that say about our competitiveness, especially in the context of ttip?
ambitious climate policy goals are holding back our economic growth.
without a return to sustainable growth, we will not be able to cope with the debt burden, reduce unemployment, finance important social needs and, above all, restore our people's faith in the sense of a united europe.
the presidency will put all its energy in ensuring an effective european semester for 2015. the recommendations that will emerge this summer should reflect our common goals and the main challenges of each country.
the overall objective of the present agreement is the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources.
the main tasks of the commission will be to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
the new agreement integrates the key elements of the common strategy on maximising sustainable fishing, protecting the ecosystem, reducing discards and combating illegal and unregulated fishing, which will help to make the common fisheries policy more effective.
the eu budget should be a tool for creating jobs, new businesses, supporting entrepreneurship, which are essential to ensure sustainable growth in the eu, the european investment plan and fighting the payments crisis.
it is therefore necessary to combat social inequalities, to promote and develop the productive base, to take action to protect the environment and to improve the labour market.
in this context, assistance to serbia, for example in the context of flood damage repair, and possible cooperation in the field of energy and the promotion of renewable sources should also be considered.
the establishment of such cooperation could benefit not only serbia but also its neighbours, while enhancing connectivity and energy security in the region.
i welcome the commission's new approach to economic policy with a focus on growth and investment, but the reforms required of member states must be socially sustainable and growth-friendly.
the biggest challenge now is to implement as quickly as possible the juncker investment plan, which aims to restore sustainable growth in europe.
the eu's european single market must now focus on creating, among other things, a digital market and a common energy market.
the eu supports the work of the commission of inquiry set up by the human rights council since we know from experience that restoring justice to the victims of atrocities is crucial to achieving sustainable peace and reconciliation.
the displacement of people, environmental migration is taking on a massive character in tanzania.
i actually learned from mrs grossetête whether there is an energy union, and she made it very clear that it is decarbonisation.
is decarbonisation, in your view, to be a dogmatic goal of the energy union, or is it something that can still be discussed?
the energy union.
i would indeed consider the council conclusions to be the first steps towards the energy union, if it were not for the rather clear description of the directions of development.
secondly, both decarbonisation and the regional approach to the creation of a common energy market for my region of central and eastern europe are a mortal threat and - in fact - much less protective in terms of energy security than the current legal situation in the european union.
i would like to remind you that it is to the former commissioner oettinger that we owe poland's better situation in energy relations with the russian federation than to any of the previous polish governments.
it should contribute to the energy mix of poland and to the security of poland making us independent from russia.
energy efficiency and other resources are also possible.
first, i want to commend the biological father of the energy union, president tusk, and the legal father – absent now – mr juncker, for the energy union chapter.
it is a newly born baby, it needs care, but it is good that we have started on that road looking towards the master plan for energy union for our prosperity and security.
energy independence is also important and, as is regularly stressed, so is the question of sovereignty of our choices in foreign affairs, and we see dangerous cracks there, where the principle of solidarity of the member states is under threat.
the energy union project is nothing new.
can priorities such as energy security, global competitiveness and climate protection be achieved without modifying the climate and energy package, which discriminates against certain countries (e.g.
we need a better law, free from the usual lobbying, to guarantee energy security.
security based on increased energy efficiency and the use of local energy sources is the only recipe for europe's recovery in global competitiveness.
the real technical efficiency index, rather than the reduction in energy use as implied by the current directive, should become the main tool for achieving climate objectives.
to this end, the energy use directive needs to be rewritten to take into account the physical representation of the efficiency of energy conversion and generation processes, transmission (efficient networks, pipelines and warehouses) and end use (building and utilities).
in turn, the gross energy efficiency calculated for each member state should be calculated using the gdp of those countries (according to eurostat) at the beginning and end of the calculation period.
firstly, they concern the energy union, which is undoubtedly an important element of the common policy of the member states.
the european council rightly stressed the importance of speeding up infrastructure works, including the creation of links with peripheral regions, in order to build a secure internal energy market.
better than your compatriot, piebalgs, who was in charge of energy policy and defended nord stream, which was a really bad idea.
these changes must address fiscal stabilisation, improving economic indicators, but also the fight against corruption, taxation, improving the financial sector and the business environment.
and it's good that we're dealing with the emissions of road vehicles in parallel.
because, i hear with horror, we talk about safety, and at the same time there are countries where filters are being cut off en masse from cars, for example, with diesel engines, illegal car waste is poisoning our environment in an incredible way and is a very serious threat to our health.
the plan should provide for a balanced, sustainable exploitation of these stocks and for the stability of fishing opportunities and thereby the livelihoods of fishers.
at the same time, it should guarantee that management is based on the most up-to-date scientific advice regarding the status of the stocks covered, interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries.
the basic regulation says: ‘in order to reach the objective of [...] restoring and maintaining populations of fish stocks above biomass levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield, the maximum sustainable yield exploitation rate shall be achieved by 2015 where possible and, on a progressive, incremental basis at the latest by 2020 for all stocks.’ so we have five years to fulfil the obligation of the reform of the cfp.
i want to use the fmsy (fishing mortality consistent with maximum sustainable yield) figures advised by the scientific body, ices, wisely.
in the light of the disastrous policy pursued so far, the european union has a responsibility to protect the environment and to support fisheries, especially family-owned fisheries.
in it we understood and we agreed that we should reach certain levels, levels of fmsy (fishing mortality consistent with maximum sustainable yield), levels above msy, and those levels should be reached by the year 2020. starting from this year, we should do our best to work in a correct manner in a steady process of ensuring that those levels are reached.
this will result in more reliable stock data, better management and more efficient resource management, and above all, end unnecessary waste.
the european film industry needs a stimulating environment to fully exploit its cultural and economic potential, which will encourage investment or diversity of creation.
polish forestry is a model for the concept of sustainable development a model that the european union refers to in almost every document.
i would like to remind you that carbon dioxide is the gas of life, and its management is the basis of ecological engineering for the regeneration of agricultural and forest soils, the shaping of the desired biodiversity and the production of a renewable energy source, biomass.
the objective of this directive is to initiate the process of transition to a biofuel policy that will deliver significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
the european commission has proposed, among other things, to reduce the contribution of conventional biofuels, to improve the greenhouse gas emissions parameters of biofuel production and to promote a larger share of the advanced biofuels market.
the commission's proposal to improve greenhouse gas emissions reporting by requiring member states and fuel suppliers to report estimated emissions is simply a fiction.
i think we should be planning in a reasonable way all the legal solutions that relate to business as well as energy issues.
because, let's take a look at the fact that we're destroying or wasting about a third of our food, some of it in the harvest, some of it in the waste.
which energy is best?
so we need to have policies that allow us to reduce the amount of energy we use, but we also need to not destroy the entire economic system that we have built on our regulations.
a typical example is the climate and energy package, which is extremely unfavourable for some (e.g.
the source of these inconsistencies are the solutions being put forward by the lobby groups in our house whose aim is to save the climate.
these climate 'advocates' have led to the creation of a piece of legislation, the red directive, which commits countries to using 10% biofuels in transport by 2020. as life has shown, and as we predicted, this will lead to deforestation, and also to such land use that the world food prices will skyrocket, and as a result, instead of reducing global co2 emissions, we will see them increase.
i call for an urgent review of the whole climate and energy package, which has already caused a lot of economic damage in some countries, for example in poland, so that this damage can be reduced as quickly as possible.
the pollution, the effects on the flora and fauna are absolutely catastrophic and it's good that we are making the effort to solve, or trying to solve, this problem.
i think it's very important that we educate -- parents -- our young children, educate them in school, educate them about their environmental impact, educate them about changing their civic attitudes.
international maritime transport remains today the only form of transport not covered by the european union's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the european parliament and the council consider that the most effective way to reduce co2 emissions from maritime transport at union level will continue to be through the establishment of a co2 monitoring, reporting and verification system.
i would like to say that environmental protection is a very important issue, but i don't know why only the european union is responsible for it?
‒ proposals to amend directives 98/70/ec on fuel quality and 2009/28/ec on the promotion of energy from renewable sources were put forward by the european commission in october 2012. from the outset, they have generated heated debate, with both ardent supporters of the proposed changes and staunch opponents of the project in the member states.
according to (not entirely reliable) scientific data, the indirect land use change effect (iluc) is expected to substantially offset the greenhouse gas emission reductions achieved through the use of biofuels.
in addition to fossil fuels, we should also seek to produce energy from genuinely renewable sources such as solar, wind and water, and thus avoid using plants, especially those grown for the human food market.
instead of raising the share of such plants in the overall energy balance, more resources should be allocated to research and development of new energy generation technologies, which will make it possible to increase the availability of energy and at the same time reduce its price.
i therefore voted in favour of amending the fuel quality and renewable energy directives, but i believe that a policy of encouraging innovation and developing new technologies for the clean use of fossil fuels and natural renewable sources should be pursued in parallel.
‒ in view of the ongoing environmental degradation and disruption of ecosystems, any action to limit these destructive processes is highly desirable.
reducing waste is something we can do ourselves as concerned citizens of our future.
each of us, if we look around us and examine our daily habits, can take small steps to improve our environmental performance, whether by saving energy or by reducing the use of single-use plastic bags.
monitoring of the strategy and environmental education from an early age are necessary.
‒ used plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment.
‒ for environmental protection measures to have the desired effect, they must be practicable.
therefore, although i voted in favour of adopting the packaging and packaging waste directive as proposed, i would like to see support for research into new packaging technologies on the one hand and more innovative and, in particular, more efficient ways of recycling plastic packaging on the other.
i believe that action to reduce plastic use and promote other packaging should be carried out in parallel, otherwise we will not achieve the globally desired environmental effect.
‒ environmental protection is important, but there are limits to the interference of public institutions in the area of economic freedom.
the commission has also identified a number of other measures that could be considered as part of the 'safety and environmental impact assessment' of the european union.
this is certainly a good strategy, allowing for efficient management of fishing quotas and guaranteeing a balanced approach based on the most up-to-date scientific data on the stocks and the baltic ecosystem.
the implementation of new standards also requires effective fisheries controls, so that the adoption of rules at eu level has a measurable impact on businesses and consumers, as well as on the environment.
the plan should help to ensure the sustainable exploitation of those resources and the stability of fishing opportunities and thus the sustainability of the livelihood of fishermen.
experts and fishermen in poland are sounding the alarm about the dramatic situation in the baltic and the disruption of the marine ecosystem, which is why i voted in favour of the regulation.
‒ the bologna process is an intergovernmental initiative designed to enable the sustainable development of higher education in the european union.
‒ i voted against the report on the new eu forest strategy for forests and the forestry sector because i believe that it does not present the concept of sustainable development.
the rapporteur, mrs köstinger, has not taken into account the important amendments concerning, among other things, the carbon capture mechanism which i tabled with my colleagues from the polish delegation in the ecr group.
the most important aspect of this strategy is the sustainable development of forestry and the timber industry so that present and future generations can both benefit from and enjoy it.
‒ this report covers all aspects of forestry, with emphasis on more sustainable long-term development, resource efficiency, multi-functional forest management, future challenges related to wood scarcity and threats from climate change, and most importantly, calling for an action plan with specified resources and funding.
better and more efficient use of forest resources and the maintenance of employment in the sector will help europeans to better understand the importance of forests for the environment and the eu economy.
the european union should play its part in supporting national policies to achieve active and sustainable forest management.
‒ the report on the new forest strategy aims to update the european framework for forestry activities that support sustainable forest management.
meanwhile, polish forestry is a model for the concept of sustainable development, a concept that the eu refers to in almost every document.
it is important to remember that carbon dioxide is the gas of life and that managing it is the basis of ecological engineering to regenerate agricultural and forest soils, produce a renewable energy source such as biomass and shape the desired biodiversity.
the fact that this is a renewable resource should not lead to its exploitation in an irrational way, putting current economic interests above a rational approach to the use of resources.
compared to private companies, they are the model for the concept of sustainable development, which is widely present in the environmental policy of the european union.
this is to point out the shortcomings on the one hand, but on the other hand, for the sake of sustainability, to show where improvements have been made and how the european commission can control the member states.
development aid is both an expression of solidarity and an investment in a safer and more sustainable world.
the millennium development goals will be phased out in 2015. these goals, which have been the basis of development cooperation for the past 15 years, will be replaced in september at the un in new york by a framework for poverty eradication and sustainable development.
therefore, 2015 as the european year for development is crucial for sustainable development.
there is no doubt that achieving the ambitious objectives set by the new sustainable development goals requires intensive action by member states, while ensuring adequate and predictable funding.
the european parliament has repeatedly addressed food safety, the effectiveness of the fight against food waste and the promotion of healthy eating.
only healthy, unmodified, unscheduled food can feed the planet and give life its energy.
the potential damage that xylella fastidiosa may cause will have very serious consequences for the economy and the environment of our continent.
at the same time, we stressed the need for greater engagement in the following areas: socio-economic issues, business environment, institutional framework, rule of law and governance, law enforcement policy, independent judiciary, fight against corruption, public administration reform, civil society and youth.
the improvement of the world's food situation will not be achieved by legal injunctions and prohibitions, but by the release of human energy, natural entrepreneurship and prevention.
public education and social campaigns to protect the environment, conserve water and reduce food waste are needed.
co-financing is needed to ensure the sustainable development of these areas and to maximise their potential.
these data show the importance of developing solutions that involve making informed policy choices and promoting sustainable lifestyles.
the slogan 'feeding the planet: energy for life' is particularly relevant to agriculture and the common agricultural policy.
the cap is the mediator between the expectations of eu citizens for agriculture and the needs of farmers facing economic and environmental challenges.
the future sustainable development goals are to eliminate poverty by 2030. to do so, they must take into account the multipolar nature of the world, the changing geography of poverty, the impact of global challenges such as climate change and emerging security threats, disease outbreaks and armed conflicts, and the transformation of development finance.
these initiatives have the potential to raise the funds needed relatively quickly, which is extremely important if we want to continue our achievements in health care, access to education, hygiene, clean water, the fight against malnutrition and environmental protection.
i hardly read anything about free media in this report, and without civil society, without free media, there is no effective control, there is waste and corruption.
the plan must include ensuring that every european has access to the internet, ensuring that they are protected online by improving the security of new technologies and electronic communications, and creating a digital services environment that is friendly to them, based on competitive and fair rules.
there is no doubt that the ambitious challenges that the new sustainable development goals set out to address must have a strong foundation in the form of adequate levels of funding.
the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad) estimates that nearly $4 billion a year is needed to achieve the sustainable development goals.
in the fight for human rights and gender equality, we must not forget about access to the most basic services: sanitation and energy infrastructure, education, health care and basic social services.
coherence with other policy areas (such as environmental protection and agriculture) is also needed.
only peace and security can guarantee sustainable development.
i therefore consider it a priority for the commission and the member states to support smes in their access to financial instruments so that they can implement green and ecological investments and innovative solutions.
synergies and complementarity between cohesion policy funds, cosme and horizon 2020 are also needed to maximise the environmental potential of smes.
‒ europeans are becoming more aware of the dangers of pollution and are also more health-conscious and lifestyle-oriented.
in order to ensure long-term economic growth in europe and create sustainable jobs, smes need to be guaranteed the best possible conditions to operate within the european single market.
moreover, smes can also play a key role in turning growing environmental challenges into significant economic opportunities.
it was a european project to free central europe from its dependence on russian energy resources.
mutual trust and harmonisation of activities, a sustainable system of resource management, security of supply are essential elements of an efficient and coherent defence market.
it was not a threat in a stable europe and in a stable environment of europe.
unfortunately, in recent years, this environment has changed very dynamically.
however, we cannot ignore the community's potential to create a family and motherhood-friendly environment.
as regards ukraine, the recent eu summit with ukraine reconfirmed that the provisional application of the ukrainian dcfta will start on 1 january 2016. as you are aware, commissioner cecilia malmström, is holding trilateral talks with her ukrainian and russian counterparts to ensure that provisional application on 1 january takes place in the best possible environment.
let me stress that the eastern partnership riga summit is taking place in a new geopolitical environment where borders have been changed by force and where partners (and indeed member states) have been subjected to considerable pressure.
when somebody tries to stop you, you have two choices: either to backtrack or to progress further with redoubled energy.
we are working on new measures in the redefined neighbourhood policy for economic growth and energy cooperation, for civic society development and the rule of law, as a foundation.
i believe that one of the particularly important points to be discussed is cooperation on energy security and interconnections.
in the current volatile international environment, europe needs to pay particular attention to energy security, and i therefore look forward to concrete proposals to strengthen energy security, including the development of interconnections in the eastern partnership countries.
acer plays a very important role in the energy union currently under construction.
this is particularly relevant for reporting and monitoring of energy markets.
good management is not possible without adequate information, especially on prices and energy flows.
as rapporteur for the energy union report, i wanted to draw particular attention to the need to increase acer's resources and resources, as this will be a condition for the proper integrity of national energy markets.
the energy union also imposes new tasks on the agency, significantly expanding its involvement in the negotiation process and monitoring of external markets.
without reliable and appropriate information, it is not possible to put in place solutions that will build the energy union properly.
in this context, particular attention should be paid to the need for a closer cooperation between the agency and the national energy offices responsible for energy management in the member states.
this is of great importance in the development of a common energy policy in line with the policies of the individual member states of the european union.
the remit regulation assigns acer the task of detecting and preventing abuse in wholesale energy markets.
however, the side effect of such action - obviously necessary - may be to stifle the price signals for investment, which are the foundation and guarantee of long-term security of energy supply in europe.
the commission promotes a single market in energy as a reference model for europe.
in view of the current challenges in many european countries in terms of long-term security of energy supply and the possibility of further exacerbating them by the implementation of an anti-fraud mechanism, does the commission intend to move away from the dogma of a single market in europe to a dual market, i.e.
an energy and a power market?
knowledge of healthy eating habits, agriculture, and environmental protection is crucial to shaping the quality of life and health of children and young people.
i don't think anyone in this room needs to be convinced that agriculture is a very sensitive sector, heavily dependent on weather, climate, the price situation in world markets, speculation or international events.
this is influenced not only by weather conditions and climate change, but also by the political situation in europe and beyond (the latest examples being the olive oil epidemic, the milk sector disruption and the effects of the russian embargo).
gender equality in the labour market is undoubtedly a matter of social justice, a fundamental civil right, but it is also a prerequisite for sustained and sustainable economic growth.
to do so, the rules of the world trade organization are being violated, and energy resources are being used as an instrument of foreign policy.
i have never been and will never be a supporter of a climate policy in which the european union acts almost alone and the major emitters - the united states, canada, japan - do not impose similar restrictions on themselves.
poland was one of the countries that contributed most to reducing emissions during this period, although some member states increased their emissions significantly.
contrary to popular belief, my country is the main polluter of europe, and today we account for only about 8% of the total emissions of the european union, and per capita emissions are only slightly above the european average.
i therefore believe that the union's accession to the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol must fairly reflect the burden that individual countries have taken on themselves in reducing emissions.
i would like to start by making it clear that i consider the extension of the kyoto protocol to be an important step in the fight for a better climate for our planet.
however, i share the rapporteur's concern that the efforts to reduce emissions are being made mainly by european countries, while the most polluting countries do not seem to be as determined.
in march, the union's position was set for the forthcoming climate summit in paris.
madam president, i am pleased to take part in this debate on the european energy security strategy.
the draft report before us is an excellent result of the work and commitment to energy security, which is in addition to the political impetus we have wanted to give to this and other matters with the energy union.
firstly, because it maintains and reinforces a balanced and comprehensive approach to energy security.
energy security is a very complex issue requiring action in different policy areas and at various levels of decision-making.
in this sense, the draft report reflecting the structure of the energy security strategy of may 2014 seeks to respond not only to our short-term challenges, however politically sensitive they may be, but looks beyond them, taking into account strategic priorities, both within and outside the european union.
in this broad concept of energy security, the achievement of a genuine internal energy market is fundamental, as are research and innovation.
i would like to congratulate myself on the fact that the draft report we are discussing today has placed particular emphasis on the need to moderate energy demand and increase domestic production, mainly from renewable energy sources.
we will continue to build on this strong political message from parliament, especially in the context of the next cop 21 conference later this year, with the aim of achieving a historic agreement to combat climate change.
at the same time, this draft report, in its external dimension, mentions the most urgent supply problems we face and highlights very clearly the dependence on a single supplier for energy resources, with the resulting vulnerability and lack of competition, because it can impede economic growth and endanger the national security of the european union.
i was also pleased to note that the report again stresses the need to speak with one voice on the international scene and calls on the commission to develop a proposal for mandatory ex ante evaluations of intergovernmental agreements with regard to their impact on the internal energy market and their compatibility with european union law.
i can assure you that the commission is working on this and plans to present a proposal in the first half of 2016. finally, i would like to stress the emphasis the draft report places on the energy union strategy, adopted by the commission in february this year.
as you know, energy security is one of the three overarching objectives of the commission's energy union strategy.
our energy must be secure, competitive and sustainable.
the implementation of the european energy security strategy has therefore been fully integrated as a core element of the energy union strategy.
we are planning to publish the first report on the implementation of the key actions related to the european energy security strategy at the end of this year and i am confident that dialogue in the european parliament will be, throughout the process, a key pillar of our action.
madam president, energy security is certainly a crucial subject for us, and we have two sides of the coin: external and internal.
internally, indigenous energy resources are the most important consideration.
if we use coal in a clean way – in an environmentally-friendly way – we can achieve a lot in terms of energy security.
in the internal energy market, infrastructure is also absolutely necessary, as is implementing the existing law.
and, of course, there is an energy community.
eight countries surround the european union, making for an energy union of 36. we should build an energy union of 36, not just 28. i am glad that, externally, the first eu-usa energy round table, which we held two weeks ago in the european parliament, was a success, because we should cooperate closely with all our partners – in the west, the east, the north and the south.
another important issue is energy solidarity.
sometimes we omit this issue, but we have written it into our treaties, and energy solidarity is so important.
the european energy security strategy is the next stage in the construction of the energy union.
among the many important demands for the energy efficiency of the internal market and the increase of domestic energy production, special attention should be paid to conventional and non-conventional energy sources within the european union.
no discrimination can be allowed between any of the energy sources.
these are the two most important factors in ensuring energy independence in europe based on indigenous resources and have a major impact on energy prices, especially electricity prices, which are among the highest in the world in the european union.
the advantage of the european energy security strategy is that it recognises the need to diversify energy supplies and sources.
it is also important that it strengthens regional cooperation in the field of energy.
for countries like poland, decarbonising the economy means the collapse of many jobs and the increase in energy poverty.
ladies and gentlemen, the final sentence of the president, an energy-safe european union is one that respects the interests of all its members, not just the strongest players.
i didn't hear the question, but i will say that when it comes to energy costs, there is no cheaper cost than that of fossil fuels, which is coal, which in my country represents 90% of all energy resources, which is all the energy resources from which we get electricity.
the cost of renewable energy is very high, and if it weren't for the subsidies that it gets, it would be incomparably higher than the energy that we get from coal or gas, for example.
to return to the subject, the european energy security strategy should be one of the community's most important documents.
it is concerned with ensuring a good future, development and relative independence from energy or energy sources outside the territory of the member states.
the energy union and the policies of the member states should play a part in this.
one of the main pillars of this strategy should be the strong involvement of indigenous energy sources, which are the key to external independence.
i think that no one in this room needs to be convinced of the enormous importance of the european union's energy security and of the impact it has on our position, on the political and economic position of europe, especially in the context of the crises that are at european borders.
i believe that the european union should step up its efforts to diversify its energy supply, because we cannot rely on a single source, which comes from a country as insecure as russia, a country that is clearly challenging eu rules and using energy for political purposes.
but there is another aspect to this: i believe that energy security, the security of the european union, cannot be based solely on renewable energy and be identified with it.
i think we should do everything we can to make the use of energy sources such as shale gas available in european countries, which i am convinced will help to increase the diversification and increase the security of the european union countries in terms of energy.
energy security, or more broadly, the energy union, is already a permanent part of the european union's vocabulary.
that lesson is enough, but if we don't question the goals, then our collective responsibility is implementation, so that energy security doesn't share the fate of all those declarations that remain declarations.
as usual, the most difficult challenge is to balance the eu's climate and energy agenda.
it also follows our efforts, which i remember from the end of the barroso commission, and which resulted in the proposal to bring together the climate and energy agendas, as happened in the case of commissioner cañete.
but i also see amendments that are unbalancing the climate and energy agenda and therefore don't seem to deserve support.
the energy union is intended to be a consensus between climate priorities and a strategy for security of energy supply, low prices and competitiveness.
this will be achieved through strategic investments on the one hand and increased energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy on the other.
the current efficiency directive is flawed because it presupposes the same reduction in energy use in eu countries with different energy use.
the aim of the new directive cannot be to reduce energy use but to increase its physical efficiency as the main method of decarbonisation.
in the diverse economies of eu countries, which differ greatly in energy consumption, the lack of a way of calculating this target - different for whole countries and different for industrial sectors - does not stimulate innovation in both efficiency and renewable energy investments.
for example, the rapporteur correctly emphasises the need to reduce the eu’s dependence on foreign energy sources, including russian oil and gas, and to establish an energy union in europe.
the main weakness of the document is that it is one-sided and focused excessively on environmental and climate aspects of energy policy at the cost of energy security as such.
a good illustration of these biased proportions is that the word ‘renewable’ appears 74 times in the text of the report, while the word ‘competitiveness’ only appears 10 times.
clearly, the issue of the impact of the energy security strategy on the growth and competitiveness of european companies is not given sufficient attention.
another weakness of the report is that it largely ignores the potential role of some indigenous sources of energy such as clean coal and shale gas.
the report is very optimistic on the issue of expanding energy generation from renewables.
energy security is undoubtedly a pillar of the energy union.
recent events in eastern ukraine, as well as the european commission's stress tests last year, have clearly demonstrated the dangers of energy dependence.
i am glad that mr saudargas has made this clear in his report and that he has called for the acceleration of the diversification of suppliers, routes and sources of energy, which i believe is the right thing to do.
i also think it is extremely important that the european union, as a powerful market and one of the world's largest energy markets, should speak with one voice on key issues such as the turkish stream project.
given that energy security is closely linked to political independence, the eu should work towards a common and effective energy security strategy.
it should be remembered that the eu still imports as much as 53% of its energy and many member states are dependent on a single external source.
in addition, a significant proportion of energy imports come from politically unstable regions, which significantly increases the threat to energy security.
the eu should therefore work together to create an internal energy market, develop energy technologies and diversify energy supplies.
however, the european energy strategy should build on the diversity of member states' energy resources.
the new criteria for a low-carbon, renewable energy economy must take into account the situation of countries that rely on coal for energy production.
the new strategy cannot be implemented at the expense of those countries whose primary energy source is coal.
we all agree that we need a coherent and long-term energy strategy, but it must be based on fair conditions.
the eu's approach to energy security is changing to its benefit.
it is worth remembering that 53% of total energy consumption in the union is still covered by imported energy and many member states are dependent on a single external supplier.
the european parliament should therefore strongly support the european commission's efforts to not only increase security of supply but also to move towards the european energy union.
the basis for such a union should be close coordination of the energy policies of the individual countries and the presentation of a common position in contacts with suppliers.
we share many common interests with russia, and good cooperation can bring mutual benefits in the economic, environmental and global security fields.
this also applies to the russian threat to the eu's energy security.
‒ the need to increase the union's energy security has been discussed for many years.
the very fact that there is still not enough transmission infrastructure between member states and that there are therefore so-called energy islands shows how grossly neglected we are.
how can we talk about the energy security of the union if there is no interconnected area in practice?
if we make the union an energy area, we can more easily deepen our cooperation, whether through the creation of an energy union or through the creation of real solidarity mechanisms.
unfortunately, i was eventually forced to vote against the report on the strategy for energy security because of the very unfavourable provisions on coal mining, shale gas or the use of nuclear energy.
i believe that only by making intelligent use of our natural resources will europe be able to ensure its energy security.
‒ the current geopolitical situation is forcing the eu to step up its efforts to create a self-sufficient energy market and to provide energy security for europe's citizens.
more than half of the energy consumed in europe today comes from imports, and many member states obtain their energy from a single source or from a single external supplier.
it is necessary to find new sources of energy and new, stable suppliers, and and perhaps above all to develop the internal energy market.
the energy security strategy must be a long-term strategy, taking into account a wide range of aspects, such as increasing local energy production and rational distribution, technological development and upgrading of existing production units, innovation in renewable energy and social campaigns to encourage sustainable, energy-efficient management.
biofuel production must be an important part of the energy strategy.
the european union's proper energy policy is one in which we remember solidarity and mutual trust; one in which we stand united and present a common position in negotiations with third countries.
‒ to ensure energy security, we need to focus on renewable energy, promote energy efficiency and invest the money we spend on expensive imported fuel in developing our green technology industry and creating new jobs.
‒ a key priority in the implementation of the european energy security strategy must be to ensure that no country in the union is left without excessive interruptions in energy supplies from a single supplier.
the poor state of the technical infrastructure is a very serious threat to energy security.
i also draw attention to the question of energy prices.
ensuring an adequate level of energy security in the eu should take into account the guarantee of affordable energy prices for all eu citizens.
for example, given the differences in purchasing power between eu countries, poles pay some of the highest energy prices.
in addition, one in four union citizens was affected by energy poverty in 2012. citizens must also be adequately informed about energy prices, opportunities to improve energy efficiency and reduce energy consumption.
‒ as co-rapporteur for the epp group on the report on the european energy security strategy, i have spent the last months working hard on this document so that it can be approved by the european parliament.
the document put to the vote, although it contains many positive solutions, such as strengthening the internal energy market, calling for greater coordination in the choice of energy suppliers between member states and reducing the eu's dependence on a single supplier, as a whole fails to achieve its objective of increasing energy security for the european union and its member states.
it should be stressed that the european energy security strategy is a document of particular importance and as such should be formulated on the basis of strictly defined priorities.
however, the final version of the treaty became an ideological manifesto: if implemented, many of its provisions would firstly jeopardise the economic and therefore social development of the european union and secondly would not guarantee the energy security that europe so badly needs.
‒ i strongly supported the report by algirdas saudargas on the european energy security strategy.
this report shows the path the european union has taken in recent years to make energy security one of the cornerstones of the eu's overall security.
the problem with europe is that we are mostly dependent on energy supplies from outside the eu.
it is good that additional funds are being provided for research which would reduce the consumption of energy in europe.
poland has a vital interest in the eu pursuing a common policy on energy security.
today, europe's energy security is primarily about conventional energy sources the stability of oil and gas supplies to and from conflict-affected areas, the state and development of the transmission infrastructure, diversification of suppliers and independence from energy sources purchased in russia, the modernisation of the coal-based energy sector and investment in exploration and exploitation of shale gas.
these are real problems for our energy sector, which is responsive to the needs of the european economy.
instead, we are facing yet another attempt to accelerate the economically and socially damaging process of decarbonization and to impose further constraints on the shaping of our energy mix.
such a definition of energy security is a misunderstanding of the basic problems of this sector and another attempt to beat economies based on conventional energy sources, including the polish economy.
we cannot accept the climate dictates of the rich eu countries at the expense of the economically weaker ones.
that is why we are calling in this report for the resumption of work on the nabucco pipeline, the link that will link central asia and europe in terms of energy.
and also what is in our interest, and in the interest of the countries and the people of the black sea basin, namely energy, maritime economy, security and finally the environment.
in this context, the creation of a european fund for strategic investments and the creation of a business-friendly environment deserve strong support.
the creation of an investment climate will also depend on whether the commission acts promptly to eliminate barriers existing in the single market and in financial sector relations, and on whether establishing a capital market union will quickly address inefficiencies in capital markets.
in this situation, the weakness of the fund may be that most of the investment projects notified so far concern infrastructure or energy, and these have long rates of return.
it constitutes a rules-based framework that contributes to sound budgetary policies and the sustainability of public finances across the european union.
the member states' positions are then discussed and finally agreed with the aim of achieving the desired result, a stable and sustainable fiscal position.
rules for sound public finances, of which the stability and growth pact is an expression, are necessary for the existence of the monetary union and, more in general, for sustainable growth.
one of them is that the deficit gives us a short-term picture of the budgetary situation and actually is not a good measure of long-term sustainability in terms of fiscal policy.
this would give you at least a long-term measure of fiscal sustainability.
ensuring the stability and sustainability of the european economic system is necessary and urgent to get back on the path of growth and jobs.
together, these measures are intended to make a significant improvement in the corporate tax environment in the european union, making it fairer, more efficient and more conducive to economic growth.
we should do everything we can to create a business-friendly environment for our domestic companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to invest in the european economy.
the criteria stipulated for the selection of projects will ensure that our goals for smart, sustainable growth in europe happen, by encouraging projects focused on social, economic, and territorial cohesion and job creation.
the additional measures for investment in transport and strategic infrastructure (digital and energy technologies), research and innovation centres and investment to stimulate employment (especially for young people) will not only improve macro indicators but also benefit the situation of individual regions in the union.
we expect proposals that foster the harmonisation of standards, reduce complexity and perhaps identify new asset classes, should we want to invest, for example, in energy infrastructure.
it should be noted that recent changes in the regulatory environment have increased the administrative burden on firms, which may have the effect of reducing the benefits of traditional investment activities.
the next item is the own-initiative report by sirpa pietikäinen, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the conservation of resources: towards a circular economy (2014/208(ini)) (a8-0215/2015).
the proposal for a sustainable circular economy is perhaps one of the most far-reaching and important projects undertaken by the union.
i have to admit that some of the objectives that have been set here are set in a specific time frame, because we will have a proposal from the european commission in a few months, and it will affect the shape of the european commission's proposal, so i think we are introducing objectives that are going to break down existing regulations, such as the issue of waste incineration; new installations built with national money and eu money, among other things, and they are supposed to have a reduced waste stream.
i agree that we should consider a circular economy where waste is recycled and reused.
this is a great opportunity not only for the environment, but also for the economy.
i believe, for example, that increasing the recycling rate of municipal waste to 90% by 2030 will be very difficult for many member states to achieve.
the 2007 reform aimed to provide fruit and vegetable producer organisations with the tools to effectively counter potential market crises and to improve quality and competitiveness while respecting the environment.
in the energy policy area, the latvian presidency has started work on the concept of a european energy union.
i would like to thank the latvian presidency for its commitment to the development of a sustainable and inclusive european labour market.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
i want to emphasize only three very specific things: we will not win this agreement if energy prices on both sides of the atlantic are so different.
we must open up the american market to export liquefied natural gas to europe, because that gives us an opportunity, but at the same time we on the european continent must consider the implications for all energy prices on our continent.
the second thing is the difference in co2 emissions on both sides of the atlantic.
we all know that today trade is no longer only about tariffs: it is about standards, sustainable development and consumer safety.
we need agreements that would open new markets, increase investment opportunities, make trade cheaper, easier and faster, set common rules on technical and sanitary standards, make the trade environment predictable, and also provide for a joint commitment in areas that affect trade, such as intellectual property rights, competition, and public procurement rules.
ttip’s role is also to launch a progressive elimination of barriers to investment, and that is why we also need protection for our european investors, legal certainty and transparency, and a generally secure investment environment.
it also caused great damage to agriculture and the environment.
in mobilising the eusf for these three countries, the damage done to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses, agriculture, the environment and cultural heritage can be repaired and the clean-up and recovery for the disaster-stricken areas can be sped up.
nonetheless, the devastation caused by these floods highlights the need for more investment in programs targeted at flood prevention and climate change mitigation measures in the future.
we have growing problems with congestion, with increasing traffic jams, and on the other hand with the need to protect the environment and to maintain the profitability of transport.
increasing numbers of travelers are using airplanes, understandably, but so are cars, which add to traffic congestion and damage the environment.
addressing cross-border challenges in areas such as energy, environmental and transport infrastructure will be key.
i don't agree with the argument that we have to dogmatically pursue high carbon taxes and renewable energy rates at all costs, because there are countries that are coal-based.
firstly, the reserve was adopted on the wrong legal basis and its adoption could have a significant impact on the energy basket in countries such as my home country of poland.
second, poland's per capita emissions are only slightly above the eu average.
it is worth recalling that the old member states such as germany, belgium, luxembourg have much higher per capita emissions, and the introduction of the reserve will mainly hit consumers and industry in poland due to our specific energy structure.
thirdly, i am against attempts to control the price of emissions, such an artificial attempt to control the price.
under the principles laid down in the treaties, each member state has the right to decide on its energy basket.
please take into account the specific energy needs of polish industry.
we've been talking about reducing emissions for a long time.
of course, we have reduced emissions.
we've achieved some of the goals of this system, but we also know that the price of carbon dioxide emissions has gone down.
we knew that the msr was to be introduced from 2021. this is the agreement that was reached at last year's autumn european council on climate, where, among other things, the principle was introduced that the stabilisation reserve is to be launched in 2021. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the allowances that were to be returned to the market in 2019 and 2020. that also violates some legal certainty.
the question is, will there be no carbon leakage - that's what we're all worried about - or will production from europe, from the european union, be moved abroad?
we have been witnessing the introduction of the eu ets for some time now, as a key element of the climate and energy package.
the climate and energy package needs to be modernised by abandoning the current eu ets or rejecting it altogether.
only scientific and technological progress, not the imposition of emission limits, and the increase in the efficiency of primary energy conversion, transmission and final efficiency will reduce co2 emissions per unit of both energy and other material production.
the updated guidelines for employment policies represent an important step in improving the labour market situation and in pursuing sustainable sustainable growth and the relevant europe 2020 targets.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
2015 is a pivotal year for development finance: in july, a conference on development finance will be held in addis ababa, and in september, un members will meet to define sustainable development goals to replace the post-2015 millennium development goals.
during the debate, many meps spoke about official development assistance and taxation problems, but i would also like to stress that innovative sources of development finance are an effective way to achieve the post-2015 sustainable development goals.
the agreement reached in addis ababa will provide the basis for the september talks on the new sustainable development goals, which cannot be achieved without adequate and stable funding.
as i said earlier, this ecological dumping which exists in some countries which do not apply any rules, simply to be able to attract industry, must also stop.
neighbourhood policy tools should develop connections in some key areas, such as energy security, trade development, the common digital revolution, transportation solutions and fighting terrorism.
the european creative and creative industries contribute to around 4,2% of the union's gdp annually, providing more than 7 million jobs in the member states, including many in the digital environment.
this is due to its competitive advantage lower energy and labour costs, and the fact that it has a large number of raw materials at its disposal.
attempts to raise the price of emission allowances are a blow to polish industry and economy, which are characterized by a certain energy structure, strongly based on coal.
there is no doubt that this will result in a change in the choice of energy source on a country-wide scale and will deepen the economic collapse of polish mines.
it should be noted that the emissions in poland are only slightly different from the eu average.
the old member states, such as germany, luxembourg and belgium, have much higher emissions, but these economies will not experience the change in the price of allowances as strongly as poland.
each member state has the right to shape its own energy basket according to its capabilities and needs.
‒ the pursuit of environmental improvement is a necessity that humanity cannot afford to abandon, but it is not the process that should be the goal, but the human being.
a clean environment is good for them, of course, but the pursuit of these goals should be a process, an evolution, not a revolution.
radical changes, economic restrictions, including industrial ones, do not have immediate effects on the environment, but they do have a significant impact not only on the situation of companies and their competitiveness, but also on the quality of people's lives.
i therefore voted against this decision, considering it to be too far-reaching, with no prospect of improving the environment in the short term, and at the same time posing a serious threat to the economic development of the european union and its individual member states.
the whole climate package, green energy and green jobs is just an idealization of economic life.
this green ideology translates into difficulties in business, many times more expensive than, for example, energy in the usa, additional fiscal and administrative burdens.
of course, the additional important criteria for the placing of products on the market should be the complete safety of the consumer as well as the safety and protection of the environment (climate).
for this latter purpose, it is necessary to introduce a differentiated environmental tax and a corresponding scrap tax.
in a circular economy, existing materials and products are continuously reused and recycled, and thus waste is minimised.
however, where possible and safe for the eu economy, new waste management solutions, the creation of a closed loop of non-renewable resources, greater use of renewable energy sources and water management actions should be promoted.
better use of available resources would have a positive impact on both the economy and the environment and would support job creation.
they are not burdened by the same environmental requirements as the european ones.
‒ the report adopted today is a signal to the european commission that some of the existing copyright, exceptions and limitations need to be reviewed and better adapted to the fast-changing digital environment.
climate change is leading to extreme events, flash floods and catastrophic droughts.
climate change has dominated the debate on greenhouse gas emissions, while the increasingly pressing issue of adapting to climate change has been pushed to the back burner.
this indicates the need to re-evaluate the eu's climate policy, which should focus more on adaptation, including afforestation to mitigate climate change.
we are so used to our surrounding historic environment that we may forget that such a fragile beauty needs a lot of care to survive.
not only does it negatively affect animal welfare, disrupt natural biodiversity, but it also puts surrogate mothers at risk of suffering.
the use of the achievements of biotechnological research, the exploitation of mineral and energy resources is becoming increasingly important.
under the heading 'sustainable growth: natural resources', there was a slight reduction of 0.45% in payment appropriations and 0.32% in commitment appropriations compared with the commission's proposals.
regarding payments, we have a draft budget that respects the agreed payment plan and that will bring us back to a sustainable budget for cohesion policy.
regarding heading 1a on growth and jobs, the commission does not share the council’s view on the reasons why the substantial cuts on programmes such as horizon 2020 or the energy strand of the connecting europe facility, are decoupled from political priorities like the energy union, or the spirit of our agreement on the financing of the european fund for strategic investments.
however, i do not share the council's view that the cutbacks to horizon 2020 should be separated from the main political priorities, such as the energy union project.
it's an absurd policy, flooding europe with human waste.
we have the feeling that smart cities, for example, are very much supported in the commission, but we don't see much of how this is coordinated with urban transport issues, urban environmental issues, urban social issues and so on.
we must also strive to maintain sustainable development across regions.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013).
it is important for improving the quality of life of older people, but also for building a competitive, prosperous and sustainable europe.
they are very important because they promote environmental sustainability, as on the one hand they allow the european fleet to access the surplus resources, and on the other hand they subject the vessels to the same rules of control and transparency.
a complete transformation of the transport sector to make it energy efficient, safe, competitive, efficient and interoperable is urgently needed today, especially as the latest statistics show that the demand for transport services will double in the coming years.
this leading role of cities is also associated with a number of problems, such as high population density, transport difficulties, high levels of pollution emitted into the atmosphere and large disparities in the living standards of the population.
unfortunately, despite the generally favourable climate around social enterprises, there is still a lack of awareness of them both among decision-makers at all levels and the general public .
in the context of demographic change and the ageing of european society, we must also ensure that we create a social and economic environment that is favourable to older people.
however, the report also addresses several issues, such as decarbonisation, a costly commitment to reduce emissions, reducing transport's dependence on fossil fuels, the creation of a european road transport agency, which directly threaten the polish economy and which i voted against.
‒ the european parliament's white paper on the implementation of the transport white paper outlines an ambitious strategy for future action to promote a competitive transport system, aimed at increasing mobility, removing existing barriers and reducing pollution from this sector of the economy.
despite the very good intentions of the document, many of the demands contain difficult targets, such as a 60% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from transport by 2030, or a doubling of the use of public transport in urban areas by 2030, or even harmful demands that are completely detached from the realities of doing business, such as the introduction of a weekly rest for people employed in the transport sector.
‒ i would like to point out that in 2011 the european commission set transport targets up to 2050. the objectives are clear: increase transport mobility, eliminate transport barriers, reduce carbon emissions.
the scale of road and air transport is increasing, which increases congestion and degrades the environment.
this trend should be mitigated by allocating relatively more resources and energy to the potential of rail, short sea shipping and inland waterways.
only then can we talk about more sustainable development, greater mobility and better protection of natural resources.
there is no better proof that climate policy cannot be constructed in isolation from economic realities and consumer preferences.
as in previous years, the most frequent failures related to environmental protection, health and consumer protection, the internal market, services and transport.
the 17 sustainable development goals, which form an ambitious follow-up to the millennium development goals, will be formally endorsed at the new york summit.
however, the new goals are intended to provide an even stronger incentive to tackle extreme poverty, eliminate social inequalities and act to reduce negative climate change.
i would also like to highlight the important role of innovative sources of financing for development in the form of microfinance, non-traditional taxes and public-private partnerships, which effectively contribute to the achievement of the post-2015 sustainable development goals.
the paris climate summit enthusiasts believe that it will lead to a global breakthrough, because china has committed for the first time, although for now it's a promise to reduce emissions in the future.
in ten to fifteen years, their emissions will increase.
developing countries account for nearly half of global emissions and are continually increasing their emissions.
china has quadrupled its emissions, india has more than doubled.
the principle of the union's understanding of the need for developing countries to catch up is unfortunately not applied to eu member states such as poland, which is forced to embark on a decarbonisation path, thus hurting poland's economic development and, above all, poland's energy security.
in conclusion, to attribute the migration crisis to climate change is the height of absurdity.
climate change is leading to extreme events - flash floods and catastrophic droughts.
the large amounts of money currently spent on reducing greenhouse gas emissions are not enough to reverse these trends.
the issue of emissions has dominated the climate debate, while the issue of adaptation to climate change has become a burning issue, and it has been pushed back.
if it is true that greenhouse gas emissions have led to adverse climate change (a claim that has not been proven by the ipcc), then the forthcoming conference should consider not only the problem of reducing them but also ways to increase the absorption capacity of our globe.
this indicates the need to reassess the eu's climate policy, which should focus more on adaptation, including afforestation, to mitigate climate change and on which, rather than just reducing co2, the main financial resources should be directed.
i believe that in the discussions - also in the european parliament - on the millennium development goals and the subsequent sustainable development goals, each of us has seen these goals mainly through the lens of the human need to help those most in need.
i therefore consider it particularly important to commit not only politically but also financially to the new sustainable development goals.
the commission's proposal for the summer energy package aims to build a common energy policy.
this is essential in the light of the agreed energy union, which aims to ensure equal treatment, solidarity and security of energy supply between member states.
this is completely contrary to the diversification of gas supply and completely contrary to the idea of an energy union.
the question is, is this building an energy union?
i met with about ten thousand people, and when i said it was cold because the union was fighting global warming, they all laughed and cried.
our citizens should know why we are creating the energy union, how important it is to them, how it can increase their confidence that there will be no shortage of energy.
but prosumers are also important, and it is good that the european commission has taken this into account, because prosumers can ensure both the supply of energy, and this everywhere in the european union, as well as, which is very important, the protection of the atmosphere, the protection of the climate and the protection of the environment.
it is therefore important to design our common energy market well, because this gives our consumers a chance: the flexibility of this market, the carousel flows that need to be eliminated, the direct and indirect costs of eliminating co2.
this is part of the energy union and this new idea to increase nord stream, and do it in such a significant way, can threaten security.
i wanted to ask if the european commission is looking at the impact of the nord stream expansion on the security situation and the energy package that we have in front of us?
the proposals for changes in the summer energy package unfortunately demonstrate a lack of foresight on the state of the eu economy as a whole.
the energy union is to mean an energy based solely on renewable sources.
i do not agree with the current shape of the energy union and i say this out of concern for the economic situation of many european countries.
the european commission's swift start on the energy union is to be welcomed.
the package contains regulations that will improve the situation of consumers in the energy market.
the problem we need to solve is europe's isolation in the fight against climate change.
all the big emitters, including the united states, china and russia, are not doing enough, as the negotiations leading up to the paris climate summit show.
the security of energy supply, including at affordable prices for consumers and without harming the environment, should be a priority for the european union.
however, i am concerned to see that the member states of the european union often have inconsistent energy policies, which are mainly based on solutions that do not reduce europe's dependence on supplies from one direction, the east.
at the same time, the union is pursuing a very strict climate policy, which not only undermines our energy security but also, as a consequence, the competitiveness of the european economy.
one of the negative effects is the 'push' of some of the most energy-intensive sectors into non-european areas of the world where there are virtually no restrictions on pollutant emissions.
this threatens to have the opposite of the intended effect, namely the absence of climate change, a reduced competitiveness of the economy, increased unemployment, greater social stratification and even more poverty in europe.
i believe that all the community's economic and social objectives, including environmental objectives, are important and should be pursued without fail, but the dynamics of these activities should be rationally adapted to the capabilities of all, not just individual member states, and incorporated as appropriate into the global process.
in the future, this may lead to the cessation of gas transit through these countries, which will consequently cause an energy crisis in central and eastern europe.
in addition, strict compliance with union energy law is one of the main objectives of the energy union.
in the case of nord stream 2, there is a risk that the european commission will exempt gazprom from the rules of the third climate package.
we have talked a lot about this recently in strasbourg, and we are also talking about the energy union and solidarity in this area.
we need sustained economic growth, new jobs, while at the same time taking into account sustainable development, including the energy market, and thus addressing the inevitable climate change.
these partnerships have a real impact on social inclusion by promoting education, strengthening micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, creating jobs and supporting sustainable economic growth in the region.
we share a common vision: the idea that one of the key challenges for the next 15 years will be the localisation of the sustainable development goals.
this approach has to be a real new paradigm where local authorities in the north and the global south become strongly involved, not just in the implementation but also in the nurturing of the sustainable development goals.
as a member of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly and of the committee on regional development, i understand the concerns of my colleagues from developing countries and also highlight the role of local authorities in strengthening local micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, creating new jobs and promoting sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
as chair of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), which always defends european industry, i want to say that what happened was completely unacceptable.
this has happened while we are negotiating ttip, which is a very sensitive issue in our relations with the usa, but the case shows that we should not be afraid that ttip will lower our environmental standards.
the industry committee stressed two years ago that testing must be improved and harmonised, together with tackling misleading information on fuel consumption and environmental performance, which is very important.
not so long ago we also dealt with the harmful, very dangerous nitrogen oxides that enter our atmosphere from vehicles, and i proposed that the european commission should have more powers in the regulation on the reduction of vehicle emissions, but many of my colleagues from alde and ecr were opposed to this.
we need to move as quickly as possible from lab tests to actual emissions, as you said, because it's a well-kept secret that cars that meet lab standards violate them repeatedly in road conditions.
the question is whether this is not the result of an unconditional drive to maximise emissions from transport and an absolute pressure to decarbonise all sectors of the european economy.
it turns out that even the largest and richest companies are unscrupulously falsifying the real emissions of gases that are harmful to human health and the environment.
it is unacceptable that the costs of this corporate behaviour are borne primarily by consumers, and that it is ordinary citizens who are paying out of their own pockets not only for the stringent environmental standards but also for the unprecedented drive to maximise profits.
but this case also speaks to the real effectiveness of european climate policy: all the biggest proponents of decarbonizing the economy are responsible for this scandal.
this is not a single fraud, this is a scandal about the regulatory power of the european union, its climate policy.
many citizens have long believed that the union applies double standards to the car industry, that it applies more lax standards than to other industries, that it ignores the environmental pollution caused by the car industry.
the transport sector in the union emits a quarter of all greenhouse gases and more than two thirds of these emissions come from road transport.
the measurement of real in-service emissions is an important tool for achieving this.
the volkswagen emissions scandal is the case of a company that has started to expand in the us market.
but this is only the tip of the iceberg, a warning to europe, which is defending itself against the ttip agreement, for environmental reasons among others.
it does not require a knowledge of physical chemistry to easily conclude that the maximisation of the energy efficiency of diesel engines, with the aim of maximising co2 emissions, is accompanied by an increase in the combustion temperature, and that exceeding a certain threshold threatens to generate toxic endothermic compounds such as nox.
0.08 g/km; - failure to meet euro 6 standards during the warranty period should be compensated for by the users; - the repair clause should be extended to all eu countries to unlock the innovative potential of smes to combat polluting emissions, especially in central and eastern european countries where millions of cars are registered polluting the atmosphere.
the directive we are voting on tomorrow sets limits on dust emissions sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides and introduces carbon monoxide monitoring without setting limits for combustion plants with a capacity of 150mw or more.
it also fills the legislative gap that we have between the ecodesign directive, which sets standards for combustion plants of less than 1mw, and the industrial emissions directive, which covers plants of more than 50mw.
and this is important not just for social reasons, but also for environmental reasons, which i want to emphasize.
i wanted to emphasise that the final text of the directive is an example of a good reconciliation of the challenges that arise from the need to protect the environment, economic reality and social needs.
this agreement was also accepted by coreper on 30 june with only one country voting against and voted in the environmental protection committee on 15 july by a large majority of 59 votes in favour to 6 against.
it is good that the final shape of the directive on the limitation of emissions of certain substances into the air from medium combustion plants takes into account the wide range of concerns expressed by different environments.
installations in poland have undergone upgrading in recent years as required by national law, so imposing an obligation to further upgrade too quickly would lead to a drastic increase in costs and, as a result, possibly to their closure and to an increase in the use of individual heating systems, which would lead to an increase in emissions, as these systems are more difficult to control.
this would therefore be counterproductive from an environmental and health policy point of view.
i am also pleased that my amendment to the agreement, which states that emissions measurements should be made under stable conditions with a representative, uniform load, has been included in the final text.
there is no doubt that climate and energy policy, one of the key issues of the european union, is becoming increasingly important in the context of recent crises and events in europe, and is also a major challenge for the european union and its member states, especially when we consider that air pollution emissions contribute to almost 400,000 premature deaths in the european union and that the health costs associated with the emission of harmful compounds range from 300 to 900 billion euros.
however, in reference to today's discussion about volkswagen, anyone who thinks responsibly has to ask themselves what have we done to european industry that industry is resorting to fraud or are we not setting too high standards for emissions reduction or is this a one-off incident like the volkswagen case.
i believe that the compromise reached on the reduction of emissions of certain pollutants, including sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, will, on the one hand, protect what is most precious: health, human life and the environment, and, on the other hand, will not create excessive administrative and financial burdens for small and medium-sized enterprises in this sector, which could lead to an increase in the cost of heat for individual household customers.
of course we should strive to reduce emissions of harmful substances into the atmosphere, but let us remember that excessive regulations on emissions of pollutants are putting the eu economy out of competition and putting the eu countries at serious financial loss.
many of you have mentioned that the increased use of biomass as a fuel, if not accompanied by adequate pollution abatement, leads to a significant degradation of air quality, and the medium combustion plants directive will enable the environmentally-sound use of biomass as a fuel.
it gives the necessary time for upgrading recent biomass plants that do not adequately reduce emissions of particulate matter.
i also thank the commissioner for, in particular, stressing that this is the result of the work of the entire negotiating team and that it is a good compromise that takes into account both important environmental objectives that will contribute to changing the way this environment is shaped and will also contribute to reducing the number of diseases caused, among other things, by air pollution, but it is also a compromise that takes into account the important economic interests of both the small and mediumsized companies mentioned here, but also of individual countries that have smaller or larger problems with medium-sized combustion plants.
they can also use their prerogatives, which is also important where intervention is necessary, where in particular the air pollution is higher.
and for example, in cases where we are dealing with renewable energy sources, where biomass is used, this biomass has an effect in the form of increased dust content.
there has been a lot of talk in the previous debates about volkswagen and pollution, but not much in this technical document about casein and casein.
the energy dialogue, the energy security issue must take into account the energy security of my region central and eastern europe.
the document we adopted today complements the rules by regulating emissions from medium-sized plants (between 1 and 50 mw).
in order to improve air quality, the limits set limit pollution by nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and dust and this is a community regulation because only this form of unification of the rules has a chance of success.
let's reduce pollution and take care of the environment, but considering the impact of such actions on our economy, especially in countries where energy production is still largely based on coal.
these directives rightly do not focus solely on the cost of procurement, but emphasise that social and labour law and the need to protect the environment should also be taken into account in the public procurement procedure.
firstly, it is difficult to talk about profits, since the existing infrastructure for the transmission of gas from the east is only half used, and the laying of pipelines on the seabed is much more expensive than on land and can also have adverse environmental effects.
secondly, nord stream ii is contrary to the energy security commitments of all member states and is part of the abuse of a dominant market position by one supplier, which is currently being investigated in the antitrust proceedings by the european commission against gazprom.
in conclusion, this project cannot be considered purely commercial, since it brings the political tensions known from the construction of nord stream i, it differentiates eu countries from the point of view of energy security, it threatens our partners covered by the neighbourhood policy, it divides us, it does not connect us, and, in addition, it is economically difficult to justify.
a few weeks ago i asked you, commissioner, about the commission's attitude to the construction of nord stream ii in the context of the implementation of the third energy package and the creation of the energy union, for which i am the rapporteur.
this is totally contrary to the idea of diversification and security of supply in the light of the requirements of the european energy union.
the current situation provides grounds for member states to review their climate protection commitments and implement their energy policies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind, and that the energy sector is not left behind.
it's undermining our security, and not just our energy security.
reducing europe's dependence on imported energy sources, especially from one direction east, should be a key element in building the european union's energy security.
in this context, it is difficult to consider nord stream ii as an investment compatible with the interests of the community, the foundations of the european union and the european energy security strategy.
on the one hand, all the strategic documents of the european union emphasize the need to significantly diversify energy sources and supply routes, but on the other hand, investment projects are being undertaken and accepted that will make the member states even more dependent on russia.
the energy union is a single competitive energy market on the one hand and the achievement of europe's climate goal on the other.
energy efficiency is the key tool to achieve this.
the doubling of the northern gas pipeline could have a significant impact on the construction of the energy union as well as on security of supply.
the conversion of gas energy into electricity is at least 20% more efficient in terms of physicochemical efficiency than the conversion from coal, while the co2 emissions are 40% of those from its combustion.
we believe that this is an investment in the energy security of central and eastern europe.
we believe that it is incompatible with the principle of solidarity which applies in the european union, including in the field of energy.
moreover, the construction of the nord stream 2 pipeline is contrary to the efforts to increase the energy security of the union economy.
in practice, this means building energy security for just one member of the european union.
i have a short question for the commissioner: has the nord stream project been analysed for its compliance with the requirements of the third energy package?
moreover, the implementation of this investment by the big western energy companies with russia's gazprom, which regularly abuses its dominant market position and against which the commission has been conducting antitrust proceedings for several years, is a flagrant disregard not only of european legislation but above all of the principle of solidarity enshrined in the draft energy union, which is supported by the governments of the 28 member states.
if the governments of the largest eu countries are demanding solidarity from the countries of central and eastern europe on the issue of immigrants, then as the representative of the largest of these countries - poland - i demand that the principle of solidarity on energy security, enshrined not only in the energy union project but also in the lisbon treaty, be respected and that the implementation of this investment, primarily russian, be blocked.
it was agreed that all gas contracts should be checked for compliance with eu legislation and eu-wide energy security priorities, and financial and regulatory support should be granted only to projects that diversify both sources, suppliers and routes of gas supply to the eu and its neighbours.
energy security of the eu and its neighbours should be strengthened by supporting, for example, the southern gas corridor, which supplies the market with gas from the caspian sea region, or lng imports from existing and prospective suppliers such as the us.
recognising that education is one of the most important factors in ensuring sustainable development and a pillar of a stable society, i call on the president of nigeria and the newly elected federal government to take decisive measures to combat extremism and to protect civilians, especially children, and to ensure safe conditions for their lives and development, including education.
‒ in 2010, a waste tank at an aluminium smelter near the city of ajka in hungary burst, releasing nearly one million cubic metres of highly alkaline so-called red mud.
such projects violate the principle of neutrality and infringe the competence of member states to decide on the structure of their energy needs.
the fact that emissions can be changed pragmatically without excluding any energy source is demonstrated by the example of japan, china, india, which are promoting supercritical coal combustion technologies, which lead to emissions reductions of up to 30-40% and significantly improve the efficiency of the units.
this can be of enormous importance for countries where reducing emissions means compromising energy security, as in the case of poland.
these data can be found in the report of the clean coal centre or the international energy agency.
so i do not agree to limit poland's energy security, because energy security equals national security in poland.
carbon dioxide emitted by human activity is of little importance to nature and to the content of this dioxide in nature, but it is of great business importance.
well, the countries that were developed earlier are taking advantage of the limits that they've already reached and now they would like to charge fees to buy those carbon limits from the countries that are developing.
there's no doubt that we need to stop global warming, but there it is: it's a global problem.
and we're only going to solve it if the countries that emit the most greenhouse gases join our efforts.
the absence of an effective, legally binding global climate pact on the one hand puts the eu economy at risk of losing competitiveness and jobs, especially in energy-intensive sectors, and on the other hand it also undermines the sense of our climate efforts, the climate efforts in the european union that the union has been making for a long time.
otherwise, we will have to seriously rethink our eu climate goals, and our global partners, whom we want to persuade to agree, should know this; we should inform them that we do not want to fight climate threats alone.
‒ there is no doubt that climate policy is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity in terms of sustainable development, health and the global economy.
we must take care of the environment not only for our own health, but also for the future generations who will also benefit from the same environment.
the continuing climate change, from melting glaciers to frequent droughts and floods, requires a rapid response from the international community.
and that's the response that's going to be the paris climate agreement.
by 2020, developing countries are to receive $100 billion a year to help finance greenhouse gas emissions reductions and other projects to protect vulnerable populations from the effects of climate change.
‒ there is no doubt that the climate change we are currently witnessing requires urgent action on our part, as it could lead to irreversible risks for societies and the entire biosphere.
it is therefore essential that all parties to the climate negotiations make specific commitments to meet this challenge - one of the greatest challenges of modern civilization.
the european parliament's report on the new international climate agreement to be concluded later this year in paris is the right step in the global fight against the changes that are taking place on our planet.
it is clear that if the fight against climate change is not global and is confined to europe, we will not only fail to achieve our objectives, but worse, we will significantly reduce the competitiveness of our economy.
i therefore decided to vote against the ep report because i believe that the position it outlines that the european union should present in the climate negotiations has not been properly balanced.
‒ the 21st un conference on climate change (unfccc) is to be held in december 2015. it is widely believed that an international agreement on carbon emission limits will be reached.
such projects violate the principle of neutrality and infringe the competence of member states to decide on the structure of their energy supply.
the introduction of further co2 restrictions will be of enormous importance for poland, negatively affecting the country's energy security.
‒ there is a very tangible cost to making climate commitments, which no one in this institution wants to remember.
this is a high price to be paid, especially by poland, for whom coal is a source of energy and economic security.
the climate is constantly changing.
it was changing before the industrial age, too, although the dogma that human activity is the major cause of global warming seems to be accepted by many.
the paris climate summit, which raises such high hopes for a binding global agreement, will only show once again how far the european union is ahead of a number of world economies in its demands for decarbonisation.
big players like china and the united states, despite declarations to reduce co2 emissions, calculated to win the approval of left-wing public opinion, will never give up what really shapes their prosperity an industry based largely on the use of fossil fuels.
however, we must remember that the digital environment is changing and evolving very rapidly and dynamically, and our regulations must be adapted to this.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, although unfortunately it does not cover all aspects of the problem of car emissions.
the resolution omits the environmental and human health damage that older engines have caused and continue to cause.
‒ following the volkswagen emissions cheating scandal, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the matter on 27 october.
i also pointed out the hypocrisy of the eu's climate policy, which 'looks the other way on car pollution'.
in its resolution on emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector, parliament calls for, among other things, the measures i mentioned in my speech: stricter testing requirements, measurement of real-world emissions, comprehensive monitoring of the motor vehicle market.
to prevent similar situations, real-world emissions tests to ensure that new cars meet euro 6 emissions standards should be introduced by 2017 and an independent european body responsible for emissions testing should be established.
‒ following reports published on 18 september by the us environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) on emissions-disrupting devices installed by volkswagen in its cars, the european parliament decided to take a position on the matter by adopting a resolution.
it is also proposed that real driving emissions (rde) procedures be introduced as a matter of urgency, with a target date of 2017. i believe that the disclosure of falsified measurement data is evidence of the compromise not only of the vw group, but of the entire european union.
while appreciating the international commitment of the quartet, i would like to call for these efforts to be limited to creating a positive environment for the resumption of peace talks, without imposing ready-made solutions on the parties.
justice and reconciliation must be central to our efforts to lay the foundation for sustainable peace.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
extending the limits to non-toxic greenhouse gases is a misunderstanding.
limiting methane emissions will disrupt the agricultural sector.
the restrictions should only concern toxic emissions, e.g.
the project omits emissions that are highly toxic to the local atmosphere, i.e.
i remind you that it's covered by the climate package.
the work on this directive has managed to balance ambitious environmental objectives with economic opportunities.
methane emissions are also covered by climate legislation.
none of us have any doubt that we should take action to protect the environment.
i would like to emphasise that the issues relating to emissions of this compound are already covered by climate legislation and there is no need to duplicate them.
i would like to remind you that poland is among the countries that meet their emission ceilings, and in the years 2011-13 the volume of emissions was below the limit resulting from the treaty of accession of poland to the eu.
‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, because it imposes too high a commitment on methane.
‒ a few months ago, eu environment ministers agreed that the level of air pollution on our continent is too high (according to ec figures, some 400 000 europeans die prematurely every year from diseases caused by inhaling harmful compounds).
it therefore decided to reduce emissions of hazardous compounds from industry, traffic and power plants by 2030. however, in addition to the limits on sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, it has also been decided to limit emissions of methane, for example, a gas produced by animals, mainly cattle, and such a limitation can cause serious disruption in the livestock sector.
we are firmly opposed, together with the members of the european people's party and colleagues from other groups, to the introduction of measures to limit methane emissions, which could harm european agricultural production in the long term.
i hope that, despite the unfavourable outcome of the vote in the ep, the council will take account of the voice of reason in the negotiations and that the amendment of the directive on national pollution ceilings will not harm our farmers.
i voted in favour of the resolution because it creates legal instruments to enable the countries of the region to develop a common strategy and coordinate their action under the commission's guidance, and thus, in my view, gives them a unique opportunity for rapid and sustainable development and for the western balkan countries to move closer to the eu.
the requirements of good water management, harmonisation of water legislation, cross-border cooperation, a common environmental policy, the construction of road and transport infrastructure, and the promotion of public-private partnerships should contribute to increased competitiveness, job creation and investment, including from foreign operators.
‒ cohesion policy is now closely linked to the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive development set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
the aim of this regulation was to ensure the most sustainable and effective cohesion policy possible, which is now largely implemented in the europe 2020 strategy.
equally important is the need to radically improve access to finance, especially for small and medium—sized enterprises, and to make the legal and administrative environment more friendly for businesses and to deal effectively with excessive indebtedness in the private sector.
we share the commission’s view that continued fiscal consolidation is needed in member states with unsustainable debt levels and that strict compliance with eu fiscal rules under the reformed stability and growth pact is absolutely crucial for sustainable recovery.
on some of the issues which have been raised during this debate: firstly, environmental measures or environmental policy-related measures in the european semester bring us to the next debate on the europe 2020 strategy.
i also agree - i think the person who said it is no longer here - that investments in the green economy in relation to climate change, in relation also to the promotion of renewable energy and the energy transition can not only create jobs - the so-called green jobs - but also redirect growth in europe.
what measures need to be taken in order to put the eu economies on a sustainable growth path?
only if the european economy grows in a sustainable and stable way will we be able to improve employment rates.
this is linked to the creation of a friendly environment for investors and businesses, and this is what member states should focus on.
and that's exciting, but it also shows that we're seeing technology evolve, and that drones are going to be a sustainable and evolving phenomenon.
on the other hand, they must ensure that citizens are adequately protected and that sustainable and innovative jobs are created.
the eu's business environment needs to be further improved and productivity levels raised by a balanced combination of public and private education and innovation policy.
‒ remotely piloted unmanned aerial systems, or popularly known as drones, are a permanent part of our environment.
it proposes actions in the areas of the sharing economy, digitalisation, sustainable and responsible tourism, and the promotion of europe as the main destination for tourist trips.
the european institutions should take action to attract new investment, to stimulate growth, to improve the business environment.
this is linked to the need for the european union to take action to promote the sharing economy, digitalisation, sustainable and responsible tourism and to promote europe as a top destination.
the commission also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the priority has been and is to get europe back on track to create sustainable jobs and sustainable growth.
the internal market is primarily a set of legal and financial rules, as well as restrictions such as the intra-eu emissions trading system, which are clearly weakening european fleets.
lastly, i believe the provisions of the resolution aim to ensure sustainable economic growth and development by supporting liberalisation through accompanying policies.
the elimination of trade barriers, as well as the prevention of the emergence of new ones, is an important tool for sustainable economic growth and development.
we will, of course, monitor this very closely once it has entered into force, together with the eeas, looking at the situation of human rights, labour rights and sustainable development, as with all other issues.
it's also a sustainable development element.
i am pleased that the need to step up action on sustainable cultural development and the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions by including education, tourism, cultural diplomacy, heritage protection, the creative sector and research in policy-making is underlined by the committee on culture and education in parliament's document on the role and cooperation of the european union with the un.
as a result of the activities of various climate maniacs who have unfortunately taken over the european union, we have energy that is three to four times more expensive than we could have had, and we shed crocodile tears over the poor who have no access to electricity.
the first thing you mentioned is that reducing greenhouse gas emissions should be done in a technology neutral way, because our goal is to reduce emissions, not to eliminate this or that fuel.
secondly, the idea of consumers is very much in line with the construction of the common energy market, but our energy companies should also have fair access to the market and should compete in a sustainable way.
and the third thing is diversification of energy sources, geopolitics.
one could say that one project - the nord stream extension - is a lens for the reasons why we need an energy union.
because it only says, "only projects that comply with the fundamental principles of the energy union will receive support".
i think in the long run, it's certainly possible, but we shouldn't do it too hard, too fast, because our goal is to eliminate emissions, not specific fuels.
we're reducing emissions, not necessarily the specific fuel.
i have the impression that the best common energy policy for the european union is no common energy policy at all.
and here we are in a situation where we in parliament can talk and talk about the common energy policy of the european union, and then the big companies do their own thing, they don't care what we say here or what the commission says.
the energy union is another climate policy that has the effect of reducing energy security, reducing the competitiveness of european industry, driving emissions out of the eu and thus increasing unemployment, and increasing energy poverty caused by high electricity prices.
commissioner, you speak of energy solidarity.
i would like to illustrate this alleged solidarity with poland: first, the energy union is committed to decarbonisation, the consequences of which will hit poland's coal-based economy hardest.
secondly, in the interests of energy security and energy solidarity, did the commissioner not oppose nord stream 2?
the absence of such objections will be proof that both energy security and energy solidarity are nothing but empty slogans and proof of hypocrisy for you.
for my country, the energy union would be an important project.
it is first and foremost energy security, security of supply, the common market - this should be an integration project.
second, we have a climate policy.
the energy union cannot be just an extension and complement of the energy union, there should be synergies between them, but an energy union that is 100% climate-driven does not add value.
thirdly, the energy union must reflect the differences between countries, for example in terms of the energy mix, for example in terms of the presence of coal.
let's cut the emissions, not the fuel!
fifth, we need to diversify supply, infrastructure to eliminate energy islands.
energy policy should be about rebuilding industry, jobs, but it should also be consumer friendly.
the energy union differs from other unions that are being set up within the european union, such as the fiscal or banking union, in that its scope goes far beyond economic issues.
it's not just the competitiveness of the economy, which is the price of energy, which also determines the competitiveness of the economy.
it's not just about protecting the environment either.
indeed, security is at stake, a major concern in our unstable times namely the continuity of energy supplies on a continent that is and will be dependent on external sources of energy.
the current energy management process in the eu is chaotic, dominated by the climate priority.
this unilateralism is a serious blow to poland's energy security and threatens to cause energy poverty.
the current energy policy, the excessive, ill-founded and scientifically unfounded so-called european climate policy, needs to be reassessed and separated from the real energy policy.
a genuine energy union should lead to a change in the climate and energy package that would combat unfair competition between member states.
the union's priorities should be energy security, solidarity of supply and the fight against energy poverty, the modernisation of infrastructure and transparency in the negotiation of energy prices from third countries, as well as the use of local energy sources, including coal.
decarbonisation should be driven not only by increased use of renewable energy sources, but also by energy efficiency.
the eu's security and the state of the environment depend to a large extent on the eu's energy strategy.
that is why i am very pleased with the progress made in the energy union.
a stable europe is a europe that is energy secure.
i hope that the actions in the areas of energy efficiency and renewable energy, climate policy, the emerging new energy market, energy security and the appropriate infrastructure will serve well to implement the policy.
however, not all of this is likely to be achieved, including the ambitious target of 40% reduction by 2030, given the still high greenhouse gas emissions.
only solidarity measures such as energy policy can strengthen the foundations of the community.
in writing.– i welcome the fact that the european commission plans to annually issue a communication on the state of the energy union.
still, when it comes to decarbonisation of the economy, we have to connect it to the r&i pillar of the energy union.
the main aim of the energy union should not be to eliminate any source of energy, especially as we should use indigenous sources, but to lower the co2 emissions.
hence, the eu should invest in, e.g., clean coal technologies and not treat coal as a ‘purely harming’ energy source.
knowing that the current nord stream capacity is not even fully used, is the extension of nord stream not something that the commission should strongly criticize – not diversifying the energy sources’ country of origin and further reliance on one, non—credible, supplier not serving to guarantee stabilization in the eu’s neighbourhood?
the communication mentions that ‘the eu will only support infrastructure projects that are in line with the core principles of the energy union’.
europe is characterised by a highly fragmented energy market and significant differences in the state and capacity of energy and transmission infrastructure.
despite the investments made at union level and by the member states themselves, although the situation is improving, it is not sufficient to have a real impact on europe's energy security and to ensure access to energy at favourable prices for consumers and businesses.
eu strategies often place a strong emphasis on reducing emissions, given their environmental impact and the climate change that is occurring.
however, this objective of union policy should not be misinterpreted as aiming to eliminate fossil fuels from the member states' energy mix as soon as possible, as this is not possible in the short term.
excessive pressure and further restrictions on energy-intensive eu industries can only lead to a decline in their competitiveness and the relocation of production outside the eu, causing not only capital outflows but also the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs.
we cannot make hasty decisions here that could weaken europe, block the development of the internal energy market and jeopardise the status of transit countries such as poland or ukraine.
‒ the european union is actively involved in all fisheries organisations whose aim is to ensure the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to combat illegal fishing.
as a member of this commission, i have highlighted in my amendments the importance of education as an instrument for achieving the eu's foreign policy objectives, such as peace and stability in the world, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and the fight against poverty both in the eu and worldwide.
it was a far cry from the ten conciliations in your climate that i remember from my budget biography.
despite the cutting of all possible costs, the steel sector’s competitiveness is weakened by high energy prices, uncertainties connected with the emissions trading system (ets) and the growing massive steel imports from belarus – and we know what happens there, how those prices are nationally regulated and how the sector is subsidised.
it is the excess cost of co2 emissions, including the technological carbon dioxide produced by reducing iron in large furnaces, that really threatens to give a competitive shock and to move the steel industry out of europe.
the restrictions on freedom of expression and the closure of private radio stations, as well as the use of hate speech by senior state officials in the public media, are fuelling a climate of fear, and the joint declaration of cooperation on burundi between the union, the un and the african union adopted at the la vallette summit and the sanctions imposed on burundian state officials are a positive signal.
probably there is also a need for member state authorities to identify sustainable approaches that would make a difference to the lives of their citizens.
we need to see how sustainable approaches work and how they change citizens’ lives.
they provide significant support for national initiatives not only to improve economic efficiency, but also to create jobs, secure borders and protect the environment.
the resolution proposes to consider a number of issues in an innovative way, with particular attention to what the wto can achieve in terms of the development of the least developed countries, and to the agreement on information technology and the agreement on environmental goods, which are initiatives that i strongly support.
agriculture in areas of natural handicap, peripheral and mountain areas also provides important environmental and climate services.
in the context of combating climate change, it should also be noted that the specific nature of agriculture is that it not only emits greenhouse gases but is also responsible for absorbing and capturing huge amounts of them.
we cannot forget the importance of agriculture to people's daily lives and the quality of the food they eat, as it relates to their health and lives and the environment around us.
therefore, restoring them to their original state would require additional energy, which would result in an unavoidable increase in co2 emissions.
this is the case with complex materials, with electronic and composite scrap, which practically create waste that is not suitable for further processing.
the history of technology provides numerous examples of technologies that were once used, but which were accompanied by significant waste, creating the large, currently exploited, dumps.
in conclusion, a circular economy, or a waste-free economy, is not simply recycling but a creative search for other uses for secondary raw materials, from their production use through the recovery of the energy contained in them to the permanent and useful deposit of residues, for example in the form of substrate materials.
the diversification of transport and the drive towards sustainable urban mobility are clearly beneficial for the climate and for improving air quality, which directly translates into protecting the health of urban dwellers.
especially since they not only help to reduce air pollution, but also promote a very important physical activity every day.
the summit culminated in a special summit on sustainable development, setting out the world's development goals for 2030. i am particularly pleased with the goals of poverty reduction and the renewal of the global partnership for development, where we will further strengthen international cooperation in this area.
i hope that the erc's legacy will be a valuable contribution to the new sustainable development goals and that its motto 'our world, our dignity, our future' will be remembered by citizens for a long time to come as a symbol of our collective european co-responsibility and solidarity in the year ahead.
the designation of 2015 as the year of development was linked to the expiry of the deadline for the millennium development goals, agreed by the world in 2000. it is also the time to set the sustainable development goals, the priorities for the coming years.
it was also intended to demonstrate the european union's special commitment, as the world's largest donor of development aid, to combating poverty, climate change and protecting the earth's natural resources.
‒ i voted against the report on sustainable urban transport because it contains numerous inaccuracies and gaps in the discussion of issues important for the introduction of sustainable transport in the eu member states.
the promotion of sustainable transport is important, in particular for urban agglomerations.
the development of sustainable mobility can have a significant impact on improving the environment, the quality of life and health of the inhabitants of european union cities, or contribute to climate protection.
‒ the communication presented by the european commission and the report discussed focus on environmental and safety issues.
however, i felt that there was no reference in these documents to the impact of sustainable and well-organised public transport on improving the labour market.
if we are to achieve the europe 2020 goals of increasing employment and reducing social exclusion, we need to focus more on the development of efficient and sustainable public transport.
‒ more than four-fifths of europeans now live in urban areas, and this proportion is likely to increase in the coming years, contributing to new societal challenges related to quality of life and sustainability.
unfortunately, urban mobility still relies heavily on the use of conventional vehicles, which account for around 25% of co2 emissions in the eu.
‒ i voted in favour of the amended report on sustainable urban mobility.
sustainable urban mobility is very likely to positively influence the eu’s resource-efficiency objectives, especially the ones which are linked to the circular economy.
firstly, the necessity for the european union to set targets which will help to make this sustainable urban development real for the member states.
instead of letting private companies do what's profitable, we're leaning on some lunatics who want to impose policies to fight global warming, and who i hope will end up in a few years in prisons or lunatic asylums.
if these same people also cut off our gas and energy connections, that's a great excuse for russia to do nord stream ii or something.
but yes, of course, we want to have as many connections as possible, to have a market, so that energy can flow through all the possible channels, and that's simple.
thank you very much for developing the energy union project.
it is absolutely crucial for the energy security of europeans and also for the well-being of citizens.
in parliament, for the last five years, we have called for this many times under the name of the european energy community.
now we're talking about this as the energy union.
let's build an energy union of 36 countries, not 28. the western balkans, ukraine and moldova are implementing eu law.
the energy union creates and sets standards.
in particular, energy solidarity should not be undermined by projects such as the nord stream extension.
this investment, like a lens, brings together all the reasons why we need the energy union so badly.
mep gróbarczyk draws attention to security of supply and energy solidarity - two key dates when it comes to the energy union, and this is very important.
however, the construction of nord stream 2, the increase in the capacity of nord stream, violates these basic principles of the energy union and we should not agree to this at all.
i am addressing my colleagues who are critical of the right of states to shape their own energy baskets.
do you doubt the fundamental treaties of the european union, which give each member state the right to decide on its energy basket?
i would point out that decarbonization is the wrong way, it is the way to nowhere for countries that, like poland, have an 80 percent coal-based energy system.
you spoke of energy solidarity, and within that solidarity you spoke of decarbonisation.
on what basis do you argue that the treaty provisions on the right of a member state to design its own energy basket should be abandoned?
the paris climate summit doesn't violate that.
when the energy union project came out, and it was put forward by donald tusk, who talked about joint gas purchases for the whole of the european union.
the energy union project is the proverbial one equation with three unknowns.
it is not possible to ensure energy security, competitiveness and climate objectives without modifying the climate and energy package that discriminates against some countries.
it is micro-efficiency indicators at the enterprise level and others for macro-efficiency at the level of entire member states, including transmission efficiency rather than energy constraints, that should be the tool for achieving climate objectives.
energy security and the related diversification of energy supplies and sources, which underpin the energy union, are undoubtedly among the key issues that we should pursue with full determination.
the european union is dependent on external energy supplies and unfortunately this situation is getting worse, creating the risk of energy supplies being used for political purposes.
i regret to note that projects such as the nord stream gas pipeline are completely contrary to the objectives of the energy union and show a gap between rhetoric and action.
i therefore believe that in these difficult times, when we need solidarity and joint action as perhaps never before, we should do our utmost to ensure that the energy security objectives of the energy union are not just words on paper, but a real roadmap for action by all member states.
at the same time, i believe that while climate policy and action are undoubtedly necessary and important, it should be borne in mind that setting overly ambitious binding energy and climate targets can have negative effects and be particularly difficult for some member states to achieve.
although solidarity is one of the pillars of the energy union, projects such as nord stream continue to undermine this solidarity in the european union.
we have repeatedly stressed that the nord stream project is a project that affects europe's energy security.
i therefore call on the european commission to assess the compliance of the nord stream gas pipeline with eu law, with the eu's energy objectives, including the principle of solidarity, and with the planned development of the baltic sea region's blue economy.
this current political climate in europe is not very prone to far-reaching integration projects, but we are all convinced that this is absolutely necessary to move forward.
‒ one of the key issues that the eu fisheries sector must focus on is ensuring the protection and optimal use of the environmental resources of the north-east atlantic.
it is an attempt to show the commission and the council the best compromise without giving in to unrealistic ambitions in the field of climate protection.
‒ a solidarity approach to energy trade in the european union is crucial for our future.
not only for the economy, for which energy price and availability are extremely important, but also for its political dimension and the eu's independence from pressure from key suppliers, including russia, on individual member states.
i agree that it is extremely important to strive for greater efficiency in the use of available energy resources.
the efficient management of resources guarantees a low price for the final consumer and is the way to reduce energy waste.
i fully support the call to use the potential of the efsi in the process of modernising the european economy in the area of energy production and transport.
unfortunately, the amendments that were proposed and adopted turned this very sensible report, which took into account the interests of all member states, into another tool for stigmatizing and pressuring, among others, poland to abandon coal as the main energy source.
i do not agree with this ideologically motivated approach and the push for solutions that will result in the elimination of jobs and the increase in energy prices.
once again, europe is putting its citizens' economic security at risk by taking the lead on climate commitments.
commissioner cañete's statement that europe is overproducing energy is statistically correct.
only future trans-european networks linking east and west will improve peak energy efficiency, and those linking north and south will make the use of res (wind in the north and solar in the south) relevant in europe.
by designing reliable interconnections within the eu itself, we cannot cut ourselves off from our neighbours' energy systems.
given that the interconnection of national systems is only the first, if not the most optimal, step towards eu energy solidarity, i voted in favour of this report.
it welcomes the recognition of the role of forests as natural carbon sinks.
i believe it is time for the european union to take seriously the role of forests and land management in climate policy.
the paris agreement also happened because the word "decarbonisation" was not in the final text, and that's a good thing, because every country has the right to decide on its own energy basket.
i think it's worth investing in low-carbon, clean coal technologies.
this is the first time in history that developing and developed countries have joined their forces to protect climate change – not only well below 2°c, but even 1.5°c above pre—industrial level.
we have managed to build climate change awareness and we, the global community, prefer to prevent the damage instead of adapting ourselves.
everyone declares themselves to be ready to save the climate but only very, very few, like the eu, are ready to act.
third point: it has to be ratified in future by the 55 countries responsible for 55% of emissions.
i am very convinced, as are our scientists, by the whole idea of climate protection.
but let us be honest: it is quite obvious that in our fight against the global warming we, the eu, are still almost alone.
this is a good step towards climate protection, but it also creates a whole new reality and rules for how individual economies can calculate the costs of climate and energy policy and the economy as a whole.
the climate agreement is about reducing emissions.
i welcome this, because decarbonising the economy does not have to mean low emissions, which is the effect we want to achieve.
already during the polish presidency of the council of the european union, we talked about a "low-emission economy", not a "low-carbon economy".
the middle east, the war in syria, the situation in african countries, and the natural disasters caused by climate change are just some of the crises that the international community faces.
i understand that he's having a terrible time paying for his energy bill right now and there's a terrible poverty in this country.
mr president, as the eu council will address the issue of the energy union, i would like to quote the epp group position on the matter, adopted unanimously in our recent strategic position paper on the external dimension of energy security.
i quote: ‘we, the epp group, believe that the nord stream 2 agreement is not in line with the eu strategy of diversification of sources of supply and routes of transit of imported energy, as well as the eu’s energy security strategy and foreign security and eastern partnership policy goals, reinforcing the eu’s dependency on russian gas supply’.
it contradicts the energy security strategy, the energy union itself, and the foundations of our foreign security eastern neighbourhood partnership policy goals.
(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– on energy policy, we think that the hungarian government is not in line with epp priorities, both in terms of its atomic enterprise deal with russia, and also in terms of its general line on russia.
and if we are talking about european solidarity, let us speak about it broadly, including in the context of energy policy.
this list will be fully binding and directly applicable in all member states, which is why it is so important that both the development process and the list itself are thoughtful, comprehensive and include those species that actually pose a danger to the ecosystem and the inhabitants of europe.
it should be stressed that tax avoidance both distorts competition and creates an unfair legal environment for taxpayers.
the eu and the us will continue to work together to achieve the goals of the paris agreement, including the establishment of a new global climate regime, the establishment of a new international climate regime, and the establishment of a new international climate regime.
‒ we are living in very challenging times rapid population growth, demographic change, natural disasters, migration, regional conflicts and climate change have dramatically increased the need for humanitarian aid worldwide.
he pointed to the conditions for the sustainable development of the european metallurgy.
it assumed irrefutably that the cost of co2 emission allowances threatened to shock competition and to move energy-intensive material sectors out of europe.
i agree with the rapporteur that real energy efficiency gains are essential to decarbonisation.
the commission has proposed that the prices of imported steel products be adjusted to take account of the ecological dumping at the union frontier, which is an interesting and worthy of consideration, since the current compensation is a source of unequal competition.
but we believe that food security, the preservation of biodiversity, the possibility for farmers to access and choose certain varieties are their rights.