it is true that the italian presidency has not yet brought the shock of energy and vitality that europe urgently needs, but perhaps that would be impossible.
at the same time, it must be said that this agreement leaves many of us dissatisfied, both those who are strongly opposed to the cultivation of gmos in the european union because of the environmental risks that exist, which science cannot exclude, and those who believe that the scientific evidence available on the health effects of gmos is irrefutable and that the obstacles to this technology are helping to kill science and the small european companies in the sector.
these are requirements for a fair agreement that truly promotes sustainable development and fisheries, and the european commission should take them into account in the coming years.
the conclusion of this protocol between the european union and são tomé and príncipe is very important not only for the development of the african nation but also from the european point of view as it will allow our vessels to expand their fishing area while allowing better control in terms of environment and sustainability.
i share your criticism of the fact that there was no political will to discuss these agreements in plenary, especially when the agenda was not very full, and i agree with the added value that this agreement represents for the effective and sustainable development of the fisheries sector in this portuguese-speaking country.
the protocol also aims to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and to support the sectoral policy of santo domingo.
this agreement, in conjunction with other development support instruments such as the european development fund, should promote the effective sustainable development of the santoméan fisheries sector and related industries and activities, increasing the added value that is left in the country as a result of the exploitation of its natural resources.
i voted in favour because i believe that this agreement is important for são tomé and príncipe and for the member states of the european union, although i regret that the european commission insists on maintaining a philosophy in the drafting of these agreements which does not contribute to improving the sustainability of resources and does not include or take into account the legitimate options and priorities of são tomé and príncipe.
the european union must be united in this effort to protect the environment and this should have been reflected in this fisheries agreement.
this agreement, in conjunction with other development support instruments such as the european development fund, should promote the effective sustainable development of the santoméan fisheries sector and related industries and activities, increasing the added value that is left in the country as a result of the exploitation of its natural resources.
relations between the european union and the republic of seychelles in the fisheries sector are governed by a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement.
the agreement provides for eight tuna vessels and two replenishment vessels flying the seychelles flag to be allowed access to the 24- to 100-mile zone for a renewable period of six years.
however, this report is only intended to extend under the new conditions the same previously existing agreement, which allows a limited number of seychelles vessels to fish for migratory species in mayotte waters, offering some counterparts aimed at supporting the sustainable development of the fishing sector in mayotte which is mainly made up of small-scale fleet.
relations between the european union and the republic of seychelles in the fisheries sector are governed by a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement.
the sustainable tuna fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and seychelles entered into force on 10 may 2003 and has been renewed twice since that date.
the eu-seychelles sustainable tuna fisheries partnership agreement entered into force on 10 may 2003. this agreement, initialled on 3 april 2014, concerns access for seychelles fishing vessels to mayotte waters, authorising 8 seychelles tuna vessels and 2 seychelles tankers to fish in mayotte waters within a range of 24 to 100 nautical miles.
on 10 may 2003, a partnership agreement between the european union and seychelles in the field of sustainable tuna fisheries entered into force.
as this report is only intended to extend under the new conditions the same agreement as before, allowing a limited number of seychelles vessels to fish for migratory species in mayotte waters, offering some counter-measures to support the sustainable development of the fishing industry in mayotte, which is essentially a small-scale fleet, we have nothing to oppose to this agreement.
the effects of this are well known: it increases competition and thereby puts pressure on workers to reduce wages, reduce export costs, lower prices for the final consumer in order to destroy local production, and then raise them again when production and/or trade cease to be dominant, without benefiting food quality and safety, and causing even greater environmental destruction.
the main objectives of these agreements are to promote regular dialogue on political and security matters, economic, commercial and financial cooperation (progressive liberalisation of trade, sustainable regional development and investment promotion), and social, cultural and educational cooperation between the parties.
the effects of this are well known: it increases competition and thereby puts pressure on workers to reduce wages, reduce export costs, lower prices for the final consumer in order to destroy local production, and then raise them again when production and/or trade cease to be dominant, without benefiting food quality and safety, and causing even greater environmental destruction.
the consultation follows the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: balance sheet and the road to sustainable mobility, which has pushed the transport sector towards market liberalisation, building the european transport market, leading to privatisations of public transport companies and resulting in social dumping, deterioration of service quality and concentration of the sector into monopolies and oligopolies, problems which parliament itself identified in december 2011 as consequences to be avoided.
in march 2011, the european commission adopted a strategy for a competitive transport system that would increase urban mobility, overcome major obstacles in key transport sectors and foster oil and employment growth, including proposals to dramatically reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and reduce carbon emissions from transport by 60% by 2050. this request, provided for in rule 137 of the rules of procedure, follows the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: balance sheet and the road to sustainable mobility.
however, the sustainability of the transport system remains a challenge, notably in terms of its dependence on oil, the use of renewable sources, co2 emissions, congestion costs and regional disparities in accessibility.
the consultation follows the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: balance sheet and the way forward towards sustainable mobility.
the consultation follows the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: balance sheet and the road to sustainable mobility, which has pushed the transport sector towards market liberalisation, building the european transport market, leading to privatisations of public transport companies and resulting in social dumping, deterioration of service quality and concentration of the sector into monopolies and oligopolies, problems which parliament itself identified in december 2011 as consequences to be avoided.
and i agree that there should be legal certainty when member states ban or limit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) authorised at eu level on their territories, based on environmental reasons such as the maintenance of local biodiversity, socioeconomic impacts or land use criteria, among others.
this directive gives member states the possibility to prohibit or limit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) authorised at eu level on their territory, based on environmental reasons such as the maintenance of local biodiversity, socioeconomic impacts or land use criteria, among others.
among the grounds that member states may invoke to justify a prohibition or restriction on the cultivation of gmos are environmental criteria, criteria related to land use planning, land use, socioeconomic impacts, agricultural policy objectives and the need to avoid the presence of gmos in other products.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
if there are any doubts about the majority of this parliament's approach to this issue and its implications, the mere fact that the legal basis in this text is shifting from environmental protection to the internal market reveals yet another intention of this proposal, which is inseparable from the transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement with the us: to satisfy the commercial objectives of the big us biotechnology (gmo) companies.
i voted against because i consider that the cultivation of gmos poses a serious danger to health, the environment and biodiversity.
we should also be able to rely on local or regional environmental grounds and socioeconomic impacts to make such bans.
such prohibitions or limitations shall be based on grounds other than those covered by the environmental and health risk assessment that is part of the eu authorisation process.
among the grounds that member states may invoke to justify a prohibition or restriction on the cultivation of gmos are environmental criteria complementing those assessed by the european food safety authority (efsa) at european level, criteria related to land use planning, land use, socio-economic impacts, agricultural policy objectives and the need to avoid the presence of gmos in other products.
following the council position adopted on 23 july 2014 by the 28 union ministers of the environment to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos in their territories, the recommendation now emerges with a view to adopting a directive aimed at extending the rights of member states in this field through a strict legal framework that will only allow gmos to be placed on the market after an authorisation based on a scientific assessment of the risks to human and animal health and the environment.
as can be read in the text of the recommendation, this is in practice to amend directive 2001/18/ec on the deliberate release into the environment of gmos and the authorised cultivation of gmos under regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on food and feed containing or produced from gmos.
the protection of the public interest, public health, the environment and sustainable agriculture, especially small and medium-sized farming, but also national sovereignty, have been relegated to the background.
the legal basis is no longer the environment and public health, but the internal market.
i voted in favour of the directive which gives member states more flexibility to prohibit or limit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) authorised at eu level on their territories, based on environmental grounds such as the maintenance of local biodiversity, socioeconomic impacts or on criteria related to land use, among others.
the initial good intentions of the majority in this parliament have once again given way to the economic interests of the biotechnology multinationals, to the detriment of the defence of traditional agriculture, the environment, the interests and health of the population, as we unfortunately expected.
the text adopted has removed essential points, such as the principle of coexistence and the introduction of clean zones between neighbouring countries, thus undermining and weakening the precautionary principle, and the same applies to environmental concerns and protection, which are no longer the legal basis for the precautionary principle.
this amendment will allow for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm agreement area, which i support.
however, this report is only intended to extend under the new conditions the same previously existing agreement, which allows a limited number of seychelles vessels to fish for migratory species in mayotte waters, offering some counterparts aimed at supporting the sustainable development of the fishing sector in mayotte which is mainly made up of small-scale fleet.
the gfcm has adopted a set of measures aimed at ensuring, for example, the sustainable exploitation of red coral; the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans; a high level of protection of sharks and rays against fishing activities, including those involving sharks and rays listed as endangered or threatened species; and the sustainable development of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for an amendment to regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 of the european parliament and of the council as i consider the recommendations suggested by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) for sustainable exploitation of red coral, reduction of bycatch of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, as well as the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays belonging to the ecosystem covered by the gfcm agreement to be relevant and justified.
the ec's proposal for a diploma is a smart and consistent instrument to support the management of mediterranean marine biodiversity in the context of human activities.
technical measures are being considered to enable sustainable management of red coral, mitigation of the incidental capture of seabirds, turtles and cetaceans, and the conservation of seals, sharks and rays.
and the second point, which i have noted with great appreciation, is the importance it has attached to the energy union, to the single energy market, which is fundamental to the european economy and to european security and which is very important, in particular, for the countries of the iberian peninsula, which could make a major contribution to the diversification of energy sources and which, without this single market and without new links through france, will not be able to do so.
we need to pool national resources in order to foster investment and job creation; we need to pool natural resources to provide better energy solutions, more internal and external security and also to ensure real faith in european integration.
it is urgent to stop the civil war and the worsening humanitarian crisis inside libya and its neighbourhood, with thousands of refugees, the risk of environmental disasters from burning oil plants and the use of libyan territory as a sanctuary for terrorist organisations, such as the one that has just criminally struck us in paris.
it is on the energy and digital platform that the european union must find answers to our challenges of growth, employment, connectivity and security.
the new latvian presidency of the council aims to focus its activity on the major proposals that will be presented by the european commission in the first half of 2015, especially with regard to the new investment plan, the digital single market or the creation of the energy union.
the budget is about eur 260 billion per year and a 4% increase in gdp by 2020. i would also like to stress that special attention should be paid to the iberian peninsula in the context of the creation of the energy union, since portugal has renewable energy production capacity which it can export to the whole of europe if the necessary interconnections are established.
so in europe, the social market economy model is the one that ensures sustainable growth, not least because it will provide jobs instead of debt for the next generation.
the proposals for 2015, highlighted in the investment plan, which provides for €315 billion to be injected into the european economy between 2015 and 2017, are directed at such essential issues as employment, growth and investment, without neglecting sustainable development, environmental protection and the social economy.
finally, i stress and subscribe to the need to implement fully, rapidly and effectively the legislation in force in areas such as the single market, environmental law, the financial and banking sectors, as well as the recently revised common agricultural policy, common fisheries policy and cohesion policy.
the solution to these problems remains the renegotiation of the debt (with its restructuring and substantial reduction), the creation of a programme for the countries intervened by the troika for which the permanence in the euro has become unbearable, the start of a process of dissolving emu, the extinction of the stability pact, with its replacement by a pact for social progress and sustainable development.
we must take serious measures to combat the financing of terrorism, whether it be offshore, the sale of energy resources or the trafficking of arms.
we consider it essential to adopt mechanisms to combat seriously the financing of terrorism through offshore and less transparent practices involving states and financial institutions, and to adopt mechanisms to combat strictly the trafficking in arms, energy resources and raw materials which may be used to the benefit of terrorist organisations.
it will foster interconnectivity and network interconnections, in particular in the energy and digital sectors.
it will help to strengthen our competitiveness and, for example, to increase our energy independence.
it means acknowledging the failure of the impoverishment model as a path to sustainability of public accounts.
this is the way to a future of sustainable growth for europe.
the science has spoken on climate change.
the climate situation has not only been worsening, it has been happening at a faster rate than expected.
there's no doubt about what's going on, we have solid data today and a strong consensus in the scientific community around global climate change.
the green climate fund's financial requirements and contributions are an example of this.
without the consolidation of this instrument, we will hardly be able to achieve the crucial objective of a global, ambitious and legally binding agreement to limit co2 emissions.
i also believe that the european union must show commitment and that it must ensure consistency and determination in its own energy and climate policy objectives.
i hope that this will be demonstrated in the much awaited communication on the energy union, due at the end of next month.
only by being consistent and ambitious among ourselves can we maintain the credibility needed to successfully lead the negotiations on the global climate agreement.
global warming is already having, and will continue to have, catastrophic consequences.
to mobilize citizens, beyond global warming, we need to talk about another model of society, with more proximity, with more participation, with more quality.
a society with growth, with sustainable jobs, with efficient and clean industries and transport.
this paradigm shift is a great economic and social opportunity motivated by an environmental urgency.
what we need to achieve in paris is not just a reduction in emissions, it's a revolution in how we live in society in a sustainable way.
climate change is the single most important factor affecting the future of our planet and our civilization.
the ecosystem services on which we depend are threatened and with them, social values and our security.
as the international energy agency warns, the 2 degrees celsius target will be nullified in 2017 in terms of targets if a clear methodology is not agreed by then.
so i congratulate you, commissioner, on putting forward over a billion euros to support youth employment, but i also challenge you to create an entrepreneurial ecosystem at eu level that will allow the creation of hundreds of start-ups and thousands of jobs for our young people.
commissioner, as you said, we cannot waste any more time.
the effects are also felt on birth rates, which affects the future sustainability of the welfare state.
however, it has not been easy to combat the harmful effects on firms and households of the austerity policies imposed by the troika, which have a particularly severe impact on the macroeconomic environment.
we must get israel, india and pakistan to join the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and north korea to re-enter the disarmament regime and be monitored by the international atomic energy agency.
it is vital that the union uses its diplomatic capacities as an actor in global security, development, trade, energy power, etc.
indeed, we need clear priorities at a time of so many challenges: from poverty to climate change, from ebola to refugees, from human rights to terrorism.
we need reforms, but the relevant ones are tax collection, public administration and a welfare system with real universal and sustainable coverage, and most of all we need a big push for good investment projects and job creation.
and as for austerity, let me tell you something: the portuguese people have also suffered a lot of austerity, and we are today, contrary to what some here have said, clearly better off than we were in 2011. we are on a path to sustainability and to emerging from an extremely serious crisis, we are growing, with unemployment falling.
however, i believe that if necessary, new measures should already be in place or at least optimized to ensure peace as one of the pillars of the european union's sustainability.
i vote in favour of albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention, because i believe that through the international obligations laid down by this convention, the signatory states will have a legal environment conducive to safeguarding the real interests of children and custody and visitation issues in the contracting states.
in this context, the european commission negotiated a renewal of the agreement between the republic of senegal and the european union on sustainable fisheries.
i voted in favour of this agreement because it provides for adequate support for the fisheries sector at local level, defines the exploitation of fisheries resources in accordance with the principles of sustainable fishing and constitutes an economic opportunity for the union's fisheries sector.
the renewal of the eu-senegal sustainable fisheries partnership agreement aims to establish a new framework for cooperation, ensuring a level playing field for the union fleets.
given the opportunities for senegal's economy to prosper through better exploitation of existing fisheries resources, in accordance with the principles of sustainable fisheries and good practice in the sector, i believe that the new agreement and the new protocol are beneficial to both parties.
the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal is an asset for both parties, and in particular for the european union, as it has the potential to increase its economic activity in the region.
this recommendation on the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of senegal and its implementation protocol, which will be in force for five years, deserves my vote in favour, as it will allow the renewal of an agreement which expired in 2006, following the first agreement which had entered into force as early as 1981. the termination of the agreement in 2006 resulted in a drastic reduction in the number of tuna seiners in senegalese waters: of the 18 eu-flagged tuna vessels operating there, only two were able to continue their activities and a new agreement was therefore urgently needed.
the conclusion of this agreement will ensure a level playing field for the union fleets by preserving, conserving and exploiting the fisheries resources of the region in a sustainable manner and will guarantee the conditions for supporting senegal's sectoral fisheries policy (1,3% of gdp), in particular through the financial contribution of eur 13 930 000, granted in respect of the country's sovereignty and legitimate aspirations and objectives in this sector.
in this context, the council authorised the european commission to negotiate a renewal of the agreement between the republic of senegal and the european economic community, giving rise to a proposal for the conclusion of a new partnership agreement in the field of sustainable fisheries.
this is an economically reasonable agreement, taking into account the fishing opportunities available, and ensuring the basis for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of the fisheries resources concerned.
to this end, it is important that the member states, and in particular the commission, reinforce the sustainability of this model.
such a measure should always take into account the principle of proportionality in the administrative burden for operators in the sector and the competent supervisory authorities, while seeking to minimise its effects on price increases, supply disruptions and food waste.
the union has important instruments of development cooperation at its disposal and the involvement of the acp in the discussion on sustainable economic and social development by the acp countries is therefore appropriate.
this cooperation should also contribute to sustainable economic development, which is the basis for lasting peace and security, and to political and democratic stability in the acp countries.
mr president, mr stylianides, mrs kalniņa, member states are going through difficult times in terms of the sustainability of their national health systems, and an increasingly important part of the budgets devoted to health concerns pharmaceutical expenditure.
at the heart of this problem is the deepening crisis of capitalism and the race for geostrategic dominance and the energy resources that this region is rich in.
at the heart of this problem is the deepening crisis of capitalism and the race for geostrategic dominance and the energy resources that this region is rich in.
energy policy is of undeniable importance, not only for europe's competitiveness but also for its cohesion.
the single energy market is a concept that has been with us for a long time, but it is taking time to become a reality.
it is essential to achieve tangible results, particularly in those regions which are isolated from the energy point of view, because of the obstacles to the open market and the lack of infrastructure, where national advantages override european interests, as is the case with the interconnections of the iberian peninsula which france insists on blocking, isolating it from the rest of europe.
i hope that the intentions that have brought us here, of a true energy union, are not just empty words or, as my colleague bas eickhout, who has now left, would say, more blah, blah, blah.
the energy union package presented today is a very positive step towards making the energy transition one of the engines of sustainable growth in europe.
for the iberian peninsula in particular, it creates the conditions to end our electrical isolation and at the same time to take advantage of the great investment we have made in renewable energy.
it also creates the opportunity to constitute an alternative energy hub which is very important for security of supply in the european context.
i would stress that in a european union which should be solidary, there are companies which do not access energy at the same rate, it is not the same thing to be an entrepreneur in portugal or romania, or in france or germany, and i must say that for those who say that the european union should be made with russia (i have heard this before), i am surprised that they insist on greater dependence on russia and not on less dependence on the european union.
i want the energy autonomy of the european union and i just want to end on a note that is relevant to my country, and to the iberian peninsula, and how it can help europe not to be so dependent on russia: the iberian peninsula has seven, or eight, of the 12 european liquefied gas terminals and is in a position to replace 50% of european imports from russia, i repeat, 50% of european imports from russia if, of course, the networks are strengthened.
in the electricity sector, liberalisation and the end of the vertical integration of production and distribution in public undertakings have led to higher energy bills for firms and households, as well as higher profits for the monopolies - formerly public, now private - holding these undertakings.
from 1989 onwards, with the argument of greater efficiency and flexibility to survive in the new competitive environment, several changes were made both in the management and in the division of the company.
from 1989 onwards, zachem s.a. applied measures of greater flexibility to try to survive in the new competitive environment and several changes were made both in management and in the division of the company.
this financial contribution from the egf will make it possible to co-finance active labour market measures leading to long-term sustainable employment, as well as to provide grants for self-employment, recruitment incentives and the promotion of entrepreneurship.
‒ i voted in favour of this legislative proposal which aims, on the one hand, to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions from road vehicles and, on the other, to adapt the legislation to the technological requirements of electric mobility without affecting the load capacity of vehicles.
it is recognised that certain technical aspects will result in improvements in the mechanical and energy performance, comfort, safety and reduction of polluting gases, including greenhouse gases, of vehicles.
‒ i consider it essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in particular carbon dioxide (co2) emissions, to improve road safety, to adapt the applicable legislation to technological developments and to evolving market needs and to facilitate intermodal transport operations, while ensuring undistorted competition and protecting road infrastructure.
‒ this proposal for a directive contains a set of important measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase road safety and adapt the sector to technological and market developments.
since it improves the aerodynamics of the cabin of motor vehicles, with energy efficiency advantages, it also allows an increase in the load capacity of vehicles and maximum lengths.
similarly, the use of alternative powertrains, which will draw energy from consumable fuels and/or a battery, allows pollution to be reduced.
however, greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced in order to improve road safety, to adapt the applicable legislation to technological developments and to evolving market needs and to facilitate intermodal transport operations, while ensuring undistorted competition and protecting road infrastructure.
the aim is to enable manufacturers to introduce new truck models that exceed current weight and size limits in order to improve the overall safety of the vehicle, its energy efficiency and its environmental performance.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improve road safety, adapt the legislation applicable to technological and market developments, protecting road infrastructure and ensuring at the same time undistorted competition.
a new cabin profile would also allow for the installation of collision energy absorption structures.
certain technical aspects of the diploma may result in improvements in the mechanical and energy performance, comfort, safety and emission reduction of vehicles.
‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, as it is a regulation that leads to increased long-term european investment in the real economy, and this funding is 'a key tool to enable the european economy to enter a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth' (§1).
‒ long-term financing is a key tool to enable the european economy to enter a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, high employment and competitiveness for building a future economy, in a way that is less prone to systemic risks and more resilient.
financing for projects such as transport infrastructure, sustainable energy production or distribution, social infrastructure (housing or hospitals), implementation of new technologies and systems that reduce resource and energy consumption, or continued growth of smes may be scarce.
it contains no environmental guarantee.
‒ long-term financing is a key tool to enable the european economy to enter a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, high employment and competitiveness for building a future economy in a way that is less prone to systemic risks and more resilient.
i am voting in favour of this report, which aims to boost the long-term investments that must be made at european level, particularly those which make a decisive contribution to deepening the european single market and the transeuropean energy, transport and telecommunications networks.
‒ long-term financing is a key tool to enable the european economy to enter a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to promote high employment and competitiveness.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that long-term financing is a key tool to enable the european economy to enter a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the eu2020 strategy, generating jobs and competitiveness, but in a regulated and transparent way.
‒ long-term financing is a key tool to move away from austerity and to enable the european economy to enter a path of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
‒ i voted in favour of this supplementary report on the proposal for a regulation on european long-term investment funds, precisely because i consider it to be an essential instrument for moving towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
they contain no environmental guarantees.
at the same time, i support the appointment of the rapporteur for the creation and implementation of legislation promoting competition in the energy, digital, financial, industrial and transport sectors.
‒ a competition policy based on a fair business plan in all sectors is an essential instrument for ensuring the proper functioning of a dynamic, sustainable and innovative internal market, for economic growth and job creation, and for being competitive on the global stage.
the report calls for the eu to pursue these policies further, in particular by calling for the liberalisation of sectors such as transport, health, industry and energy, and for a chapter on competition rules in ttip, the digital single market, etc.
i also agree that the need to ensure a level playing field for businesses in the internal market also implies the fight against dumping and the implementation of social and environmental legislation at european level.
‒ it is a well-established fact that we need to promote healthy, sustainable and effective competition in order to pursue the ambitious objectives of the union in terms of jobs, growth, innovation, productivity and investment, with a view to a more globally competitive european economy.
in the electricity sector, liberalisation and the end of vertical integration of generation and distribution in publicly owned companies have led to increases in energy bills for businesses and households.
the report calls for the eu to deepen these policies, in particular by calling for the liberalisation of sectors such as transport, health, industry and energy, and advocating the existence of a chapter on competition rules in ttip in the digital single market.
we need a favourable environment for small and mediumsized enterprises and we need to give priority to programmes such as cosme.
we need entrepreneurship to have a place, a strength and also a favourable environment in the european union, and the question of research, horizon 2020 and also programmes that can help this aim, namely start-ups and also cosme, which we want to be used for this purpose, are directly linked to this objective.
on the count of three and we propose three s's: social, solidarity and sustainability.
all of this is referred to, the social, solidarity, sustainability, we can even say that in addition to the three e's, we also have these three s's.
we believe that a break with these policies is necessary, as well as a corresponding change in the budgetary options, which provides for a significant strengthening of the budget and its orientation towards the promotion of economic and social cohesion, peace, social progress and the protection of the environment.
it is worth highlighting some of the proposals we have put forward which have unfortunately been rejected: - the rejection of cuts in science (horizon 2020 programme); - criticism of austerity policies and the defence of an investment programme for jobs and sustainable development; - the rejection of the budgetary treaty and the european semester; - the creation of a programme of support for countries whose continued participation in the euro has proved unsustainable, in the context of a negotiated exit of these countries; - the creation of an emergency plan of support for countries affected by the troika.
about the energy.
what reality has shown, and is showing with increasing acuteness, is the need for public control of this strategic sector, energy production and distribution.
only in this context will efficiency, sustainability and the social dimension of energy policy be more than just fancy words to hide the real increase in the bill of households and companies and the increase in the fabulous profits of the economic groups that have taken over this sector.
these designs should be underpinned by a market economy model with strong social concerns, thus ensuring sustainable growth, so as to pass on to the next generation better job opportunities, rather than a heavy inheritance, by holding them accountable for debts they did not commit.
in the field of employment and social affairs, it is important to remember that only by promoting reproductive investment will we be stimulating sustainable job creation that will enable real investment in human capital, professional mobility, research and innovation, which are essential to expanding the economic potential of the european union and thus bringing prosperity to the people of europe.
regarding reforms, yes they are needed, but these reforms should be focusing on growth potential, on sustainability and also on reducing social inequalities.
‒ the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation whose objective is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
one of the most important changes introduced in the new agreement is a 'clear overall objective of biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources' consistent with my conviction, as a permanent member of the envi commission, of the need to preserve marine ecosystems.
secondly, the new version of the agreement establishes 'common management of fisheries through multiannual management plans, the establishment of restricted fishing zones and the collection and dissemination of data', together with the fight against illegal fishing, the pursuit of maximum sustainable yield, blue growth and an approach to fisheries that takes into account the ecosystem perspective, including, in my view, the need to introduce sanctions and dispute settlement mechanisms.
‒ the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose objective is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
the main changes introduced are:- a clearer explicit statement of the objectives of the gfcm (biological, economic, social, environmental) and of terms which are necessary for a correct interpretation of the agreement;- a clearer definition of the functions of the gfcm, which includes the promotion of common management through multiannual management plans, the establishment of fishing restricted areas, the collection and dissemination of data;- the establishment of sanctions in cases of non-compliance with the agreement;- the establishment of dispute settlement mechanisms for disputes that may arise between the contracting parties.
the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfm) whose objective is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the proposal is very useful in clarifying the objectives and principles underlying the gfcm agreement, and in setting a clear overall objective of the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources.
‒ the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was adopted by the fao conference in 1949 and entered into force in 1952. the european community acceded to the gfcm on 16 june 1998. the gfcm is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose objective is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
the amended agreement revises the structure and content of the current agreement to bring it into line with modern rfmo instruments, and sets a clear global objective of biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources.
considering that the conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources and the protection of marine ecosystems play a key role in the framework of blue growth and sustainable development, i voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the conclusion of the amended agreement.
- i voted in favour of this report, in that i support the establishment of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), as it is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) whose purpose is to promote the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea.
‒ this is essentially an update of the agreement with a view to more effective conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources in its area of application.
‒ i welcome and vote in favour of this recommendation on the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amendment to the agreement establishing the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, as it introduces clarifying amendments to its objectives and principles relating to the sustainability of marine resources.
like the rapporteur, i believe that these amendments will achieve the objective of improving the sustainable use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea, and will also ensure the conservation and protection of marine ecosystems.
‒ the proposal for a council decision is an important document because it clarifies the general principles underlying the general fisheries commission agreement for the mediterranean, integrating the pillars of sustainable development into the marine environment.
maximum sustainable income is not a goal, but a limit.
in this respect, the new common fisheries policy states that catch levels must be maintained to ensure that the water resources are above the level that promotes maximum sustainable yield.
less than what promotes maximum sustainable yield.
in view of the mutual interest in the development and proper use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea, and in view of the guarantees regarding the conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources in the application area and the protection of marine ecosystems, we have nothing to object to.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on the guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget, section iii, as it stresses the role of the european budget in promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union, territorial cohesion and competitiveness.
the existence of a favourable business environment and the development of an entrepreneurial culture, including decent jobs, can restore the role of the more than 20 million smes, representing 99% of all enterprises in the union, as the main job creators.
a commitment to employment, social progress, environmental protection.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a regulation should be amended to include the possibility of a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ we all agree that it should be a key objective of the eu to get back on a path that leads to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for all member states.
‒ the procedure for the general budget of the european union for 2016 will be a highly anticipated one, given the current context of financial constraints and what this budget is expected to provide, in complementarity with national budgets, in particular with regard to job creation and the creation of conditions for increased competitiveness and dynamism of economies, based on better knowledge and greater environmental sustainability.
on the count of three and we propose three s's: social, solidarity and sustainability.
the continuation of accession negotiations on the basis of the reforms implemented and the concrete results achieved, in particular in the field of the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption, is essential, as is the reinforcement by the montenegrin government of the intra-institutional coordination and the fight against corruption and organised crime, which are a decisive test for the independence, efficiency and professionalism of the judiciary.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
the report supports the continuation of the accession negotiations on the basis of the reforms implemented and the concrete results achieved, in particular in the field of the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a regulation should be amended to include a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
‒ despite the slowdown in the eu's economic recovery in 2014, the european commission forecasts a recovery in 2015 and strongly in the following year, 2016. i share the view that the eu economy as a whole needs to boost its activity on the world stage through a range of measures ranging from increased competition, the investment plan for europe, support for smes, promotion of a single energy market, structural reforms in a number of member states and fiscal responsibility.
sustainable growth needs to be significantly strengthened if it is to be seen as a long-term recovery capable of providing the necessary momentum to mitigate the eu's socioeconomic challenges.
reforms are also needed to facilitate a new entrepreneurial climate that stimulates business creation, new investment and innovation.
it also expressed concern at the social and employment indicators used, which do not take into account the quality or sustainability of the jobs created.
‒ europe must be committed to a social market economy model that ensures sustainable growth in order to provide jobs instead of debt for the next generation.
according to the report, despite negative growth rates in the euro area over the past two years, growth in the euro area is expected to reach 0,8% in 2014 and 1,1% in 2015. on the other hand, the overall projected deficit in the eu-28, despite having been reduced to 3% in 2014, remains high in some member states, demonstrating the need for further fiscal consolidation compatible with sustainable growth and job creation.
the sharp decline in oil prices could provide an additional boost to the economy of many member states, especially if it translates rapidly into lower energy costs for households and businesses.
sustainable growth needs to be significantly strengthened if it is to be seen as a long-term recovery capable of providing the necessary momentum to mitigate the eu's socioeconomic challenges.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the european semester to include the following areas: only then can sustainable growth be ensured, so that better job opportunities are passed on to the next generation instead of a heavy inheritance, by holding them accountable for debts they did not commit.
it is important to remember that only by promoting reproductive investments will we be stimulating sustainable job creation, which will enable real investment in human capital, professional mobility, research and innovation, which are essential to expanding the eu's economic potential and thus bringing prosperity to the people of europe.
i believe that priority areas such as the free movement of goods, services, public procurement and concessions, the digital agenda, consumer protection, energy and transport should be coordinated at the highest level within the annual governance cycle.
leaving them out of the european semester would be a gross mistake in the eu's economic growth policy, obliterating the untapped potential of this market rather than using it as a catalyst for economic recovery and sustainable growth while attracting investment and promoting social cohesion.
the eu must support member states in increasing crossborder trade in services, creating a single energy market, and taking urgent action to keep pace with the evolution of digital technologies.
the report stresses the need to strengthen the governance of the single market as a horizontal priority of the different union policies, while preserving the necessary balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions.
for a single market to function well and effectively, it must be based on a sustainable and highly innovative and competitive social market economy, which is necessary to increase sustainable growth and competitiveness, attract investment, promote social cohesion and create jobs in order to revitalise the european economy.
these priorities are a matter of deep concern, even though there are ongoing attempts to gild the pill with the usual brushstrokes of 'social', 'sustainable' and 'innovation'.
it is therefore necessary to strengthen the governance of the single market within the european semester, while preserving the necessary balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions, and to improve the quality of the transposition, application and enforcement of the rules governing the single market, while also significantly reducing the duration of infringement proceedings.
special attention is also needed in the main areas of growth with potential for economic recovery and relevant convergence, such as the free movement of goods, services, public procurement and concessions, the digital single market, the body of consumer protection legislation, energy and transport.
the investments shall be made with a view to the objectives set out in the strategy 2020. that is how we will achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ like the rapporteur, i consider the completion of the single market, comprising more than 500 million europeans, a key instrument for the relaunch of more equitable economic growth and quality jobs in the eu, as outlined in the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to create the conditions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in this respect, i agree with the general guidelines set out in this report in the context of the european semester as a horizontal priority of the different union policies, preserving the balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions and improving the quality of transposition, application, enforcement and monitoring of the rules of the single market, guaranteeing businesses access to an internal market capable of attracting investment and ensuring the necessary competitiveness for the eu to improve its economic model and assert itself as an effective global economic power.
these priorities are a cause for deep concern, especially when the golden pill is a social, sustainable and innovative strategy aimed at building a european industrial strategy, which does not always take into account the specificities and needs of industrial development in each member state.
the protection of children and the guarantee of a safe environment for their development are key tasks of the european union and its member states.
‒ the protection of children and the guarantee of a safe environment for their development are key functions of the eu and its member states.
and with regard to the mediterranean question, and in the context of the neighbourhood policy, i would like to stress the crucial importance of the relationship with the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean, for reasons that have to do with migration, that have to do with energy and that have to do with the question of security.
but it is true that terrorism today has in libya a bridge of easy and quick access to the european continent, and there are environmental and cultural disasters of biblical proportions on the horizon, threatening the whole mediterranean.
the political solution to the end of the armed conflict in mali must be based on an inclusive plan, representative of the diversity of society, so that it is sustainable and restores peace to the country.
the stability of the volume of fish caught could be an indication of its sustainability, but as in other regions of europe, there is no scientific knowledge to certify the state of the portuguese watershed and the amounts of annual fisheries are not even measured in terms of catches per unit of effort, but as an overall value.
the complexity of the situation and the need to maintain sustainable water sources accessible to two distinct and sometimes competing fishing activities, commercial fishing and recreational fishing, therefore require comprehensive, pan-european and integrative regulation.
the abduction and recruitment of children to fight in the armed forces of the government and the opposition in south sudan, in a war that has dragged on for more than a year with successive failed peace agreements, constitutes a war crime and a crime against humanity, in addition to others committed since the beginning of the conflict, in a climate of impunity that the international community cannot tolerate any longer.
on the other hand, the political climate that the russian authorities have created has prepared a fertile ground for such murders.
‒ the 2014 annual report takes stock of a worsening security environment around the eu, especially in the european neighbourhood policy countries.
‒ the security environment around the eu has been deteriorating, with europe's stability and security constantly being challenged at an unprecedented level.
i cannot therefore fail to express my concern, also because of the internal crisis, that the eu has not yet been able to use all its potential to find a more favourable political environment and international security more in line with european values.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it draws attention to the dramatic deterioration of the security environment around the eu, in particular in its immediate neighbourhood, where the international law-based order, stability and security of europe are being challenged at an unprecedented level.
i also think it is appropriate to draw attention to the fact that energy is increasingly being used as an instrument of foreign policy and that european integration is based on cooperation in this field too.
some structures created prove insufficient to respond to the present environment.
i think it is essential, as the rapporteur has said, that there should be a reform of european policies on migration, a european strategy on energy security and two other strategies to reinvigorate the european political and legal order and the world order.
‒ we note with concern the dramatic deterioration of the security environment around the eu, in particular in its immediate neighbourhood, where the international law-based order, stability and security of europe are being challenged at a level unprecedented since the beginning of the european integration process.
we must be able to stop the advance of the islamic state and not allow a climate of fear to take hold in europe.
finally, the fixing of total allowable catches, always taking into account mitigating factors and the historical fishing quotas of each country, should be introduced in order to achieve the maximum possible fishing yield within a sustainable framework.
only then will sustainable and profitable exploitation of this important fishery be possible.
it also considered that management measures at european level for the fishing of sea bass were necessary to safeguard the species, which included the establishment of a multiannual sea bass management plan to restore the stock to a level above the maximum sustainable yield.
in this document we talk about civil and political rights, social and economic rights, human rights, women's rights, children's rights, the rights of lgbti people, climate change, the fight against impunity, the rights of minorities.
i prefer to address the energy question in the hope that the european spirit and common sense will prevail in solving the greek problem.
energy is a central issue for the european union and it is good that you have addressed it.
according to european commission figures, 53% of this energy is imported, which equals an annual expenditure of 400 billion euros.
the price of energy in the european union is also 40% higher than in the united states.
portugal, like many other countries in the south, believed in the sincerity of the alternative agenda, the european agenda that puts solar, wind and tidal energy at the centre of its options and invested heavily to be able to gain competitive advantages in this area.
the fundamental problem is obviously one which has already been fairly well solved in my country, and at the moment the question that is still outstanding is whether the investments which have been made can actually bring about a change in the european energy mix or whether they have to be confined to the country where they are produced, where there is in fact overcapacity and difficulty in storing them.
i also agree with the importance of the energy union and, as i said, interconnections will go a long way towards having better quality, safer energy and markets can work, but in order to do that they have to work as a system and a system is always limited by the weakest link.
do you not think that this decision on the energy union lacks concrete actions which will have to be implemented if some country does not cooperate with this strategy?
mr president, the results of the liberalization of the energy sector are in sight.
the natural monopolies of energy production and distribution were first broken up and then privatized.
now, with the so-called energy union and the internal energy market, the conditions are being created for the further development of monopoly concentration on a european scale.
this is the hard and pure objective, however much they try to envelop and adorn it with a rhetoric that is nothing more than that, the rhetoric of environmental efficiency and sustainability.
families, businesses are choking on an energy bill that's never been higher.
both the dynamisation of the economy and the sustainability of the energy model they require are to be achieved by restoring democratic public control over this strategic sector.
the wild destruction of forests for the production of palm oil, soybeans, beef and cattle skin is a criminal act with serious environmental and social consequences.
the european institutions and their citizens must be alerted to these signs and, if confirmed, compensation should be paid to the injured parties and environmental services should be reimbursed to the indigenous communities.
i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the process of deforestation, which involves corruption and violence, jeopardises climate stability and leads to the loss of biodiversity, and these are issues with which the european union is formally committed in its strategy for sustainable development, mitigating global warming and combating the loss of biodiversity.
in this context and given the reiterated request by ukraine on 15 december 2014 for macro-financial assistance, i agree with this decision, being certain that this assistance should be exceptional and conditional on ukraine undertaking the reforms necessary for the political stability of its institutions, the strengthening of its administrative capacity, the prevention of fraud and corruption and the creation of the conditions for sustainable growth and development, generating employment and capable of consolidating ukraine's public accounts.
on the other hand, i agree that it is important to maintain the fiscal sustainability of states by ensuring their tax revenues by taking immediate and coordinated action, both in the eu and in the international context, to combat tax evasion and tax fraud, as well as to fight aggressive tax planning and tax havens.
secondly, it considers that fiscal policy is an important part of fiscal sustainability, as it ensures revenue.
by tackling these problems and using a more efficient and effective fiscal policy, we will be ensuring the fiscal sustainability of our states and of the union itself.
mr president, commissioner, this proposal is to transfer to 2015 funds which, due to the late adoption of the regulations, could not be used until the end of 2014. this is a positive proposal which should be adopted, especially since it is accompanied by a declaration of the european commission's willingness to cooperate actively with the national and regional authorities in implementing these funds in areas which are fundamental to sustainable development and to combating asymmetries.
the liberalized market will create enormous difficulties for countries where the costs of the environment are higher, concentrating production even more in northern and central europe.
in the cases under consideration, ensuring a high and sustainable level of health care for all and better coordination of social, socioeconomic and employment policies are aspects which deserve my agreement.
‒ the sustainability of social protection systems, coupled with demographic change, requires member states to present long-term, sustainable strategies, identifying problems and possible solutions.
in the context of the overall challenge of modernising social protection systems, the commission has identified four main objectives: making work rewarding and ensuring a secure income; ensuring pension security and the sustainability of pension schemes; promoting social inclusion; and ensuring a high and sustainable level of health care.
we need to redefine priorities and ensure the sustainability of pension systems by promoting social inclusion and health care.
the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
the member states of the european union committed themselves in 2002 in johannesburg to maintain and restore fisheries resources to levels that can produce a maximum sustainable yield as urgently as possible and no later than 2015. tomorrow we shall be voting on the first multiannual plan and it is our duty to make this precedent precise and appropriate.
the fishing rate must therefore be set at a maximum sustainable level of catch mortality, which ensures that current economic income does not undermine its stability for the future.
to ensure that the maximum sustainable yield is resilient, a precautionary approach should be used by keeping catches at levels 10 to 20% below the maximum calculated fishing mortality rate.
setting a target of 80% of the expected fishing mortality to maintain maximum sustainable yield will ensure a further step forward from what was promised in 2002.
mr president, it seems very important to stress that this regulation will effectively mark the transition from the previous common fisheries policy to the new common fisheries policy, which is more oriented towards holistic sustainability.
the evolving climate change context brings new risks, such as increased occurrence of fires and pests and diseases, which require increased attention from public policies.
only in this way will it be possible to preserve the multifunctional role of forests and promote their sustainable management.
the value of the forest also accounts for its various functions, such as soil and water protection, carbon sequestration and landscape and biodiversity protection, as well as the value of activities linked to hunting, grazing and recreation.
mr president, commissioner, although this directive predates the energy union communication, we now have the opportunity to reassess it in the light of a new perspective, a european union that prioritises renewable energy, security of supply, energy efficiency and leadership in innovation and research.
the proposals in this report are fairly balanced and call for the commission to come forward with an ambitious proposal for the promotion of the use of renewable energy in transport from 2020 onwards.
in this respect, apart from the necessary encouragement of the most advanced technologies, in particular the next generation of biofuels which minimise competition with other sectors and minimise the emission of greenhouse gases, it is important, commissioner, to consider the ambitious objective for the development of electric mobility.
electric mobility, using electricity also produced from renewable sources, in conjunction with biofuels, could provide very high levels of penetration of endogenous energy in transport and this is very important in contributing to the energy security of the european union, in reducing dependence and in leading the new era of the transport industry in european terms.
what we do by 2020 will indelibly mark our ability to lead the energy transition.
the energy transition in europe is a necessity for the planet and we also want to see it happen.
once this amendment to the packaging and packaging waste directive is adopted and has entered into force, member states will have the tools available for effective action.
as many also mentioned, marine litter is a huge environmental problem threatening mainly, but not only, our marine biodiversity.
the new directive also entrusts the commission with a number of tasks, such as the development of a methodology for calculating the annual per capita consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags, the development of labels or marks to ensure union-wide recognition of biodegradable and compostable plastic carrier bags, and assessing the impact of the use of oxo-degradable plastic carrier bags on the environment.
the compromise reached is an important step forward in addressing the issue of plastic waste, endorsed by overwhelming public support.
the transport sector is responsible for about a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union, second only to the energy sector.
in 2012, greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector were split between road transport with a majority of 72% of the total against 12,8% for civil aviation, less than 1% for rail transport and 13,9% for the total shipping sector.
between 1990 and 2007, co2 emissions in sectors other than transport decreased, while in this sector they increased by 36%.
although the economic crisis has contributed to the slowdown in greenhouse gas emissions, we are already seeing the first signs that these emissions are rising again.
in view of this, the 2020 energy and climate framework provides for a review clause for the inclusion of maritime transport in the union's reduction targets in the event that an international agreement is not reached in the meantime.
we will be adopting legislation at this plenary session which is a first step towards reducing these emissions, which represent around 4% of co2 emissions in the european union.
contrary to the objectives of decarbonising the european economy, in the medium and long term, if nothing is done, greenhouse gas emissions from ships will increase by more than 50% by 2050. the adoption of this regulation at second reading will, in my view, meet three important policy objectives: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the maritime sector, in particular the maritime transport sector.
regardless of the progress made in this forum, in terms of setting targets for emission reductions being somewhat disappointing, the truth is that cooperation with our international partners is essential in terms of climate policy and the european union is once again taking the lead in this area.
secondly, this legislation will combine the monitoring of co2 emissions with energy efficiency data from ships and the transparency of this data.
the european commission will make reliable information on energy consumption and efficiency of ships available to the market on an annual basis.
finally, this legislation will have the potential to create some 10 000 jobs in green technology areas linked to the maritime sector, as well as public health benefits related to lower emissions of other pollutants such as nitrogen oxides, sulphur oxides and fine particulate matter.
i therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that a robust system of monitoring, reporting and verification of emissions is a precondition and a cornerstone for any further emission reduction measures that may be decided for this sector in the near future.
carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels are the main cause of so-called 'greenhouse gases' and thus of the intensification of global climate change, but also of ocean acidification.
all sources of emissions must be reduced as a matter of urgency.
it is therefore important to take into account the dependence of this sector on fossil fuels and to implement measures to reduce the associated greenhouse gas emissions.
some concerns, some ideas for the future, the exploitation of the potential of liquefied natural gas, the transition to low-carbon technologies as a medium-term objective, the rejection of market solutions adopted in other sectors, such as the carbon market, giving preference to normative solutions and the need to recognise the specific situation and needs of the outermost regions and, in particular, the need to ensure public transport services, regular links between islands and between them and the mainland, both for people and for cargo, on a regular basis.
this regulation is an important signal and is consistent with the european council conclusions on the 2030 climate and energy framework and confirms that all economic sectors, including maritime transport, have to contribute to the fight against climate change.
let me stress that it is important for the european union to reach global solutions to marine emissions.
this is why this regulation is important, because it sends an unmistakable signal of what we want in the context of the next session of the international maritime organisation, which will be held in london next may, and also in the context of the paris climate change conference at the end of the year.
moreover, as we remain committed to moving as quickly as possible globally to tackle greenhouse gas emissions from ships, this regulation ensures that, once there is agreement on a legal framework for a future global measure, we can adapt our monitoring, reporting and verification system.
ladies and gentlemen, i hope you will listen to me, ladies and gentlemen, although this regulation imposes new obligations on ship owners, such as monitoring and reporting of co2 emissions and other data relating to distance travelled and cargo carried, the truth is that this regulation will safeguard ways of complying with these obligations without this representing an additional administrative burden, and this without wanting to contradict my colleague mr nistelrooij, since pre-existing documentation on board can be used.
for the same purpose, this regulation will apply only to ships of more than 5000 gross tonnage, which represent only 55% of all ships but account for around 90% of co2 emissions.
this is a small step, no doubt, but at the same time an essential step so that in the future we can impose concrete targets for decarbonisation and reduction of air pollution by this sector, hoping that such an agreement can be reached at global level.
it is true that i was unable to include some of the issues i wanted in the negotiations for this document, such as a more ambitious approach to greenhouse gases in general, but the truth is that in order to achieve the ultimate objective, the production of a consensus document that would appeal to all political groups with different environmental sensitivities, we had to accept compromise agreements.
‒ the proposal aims to ensure that on-board personnel have the necessary qualifications to reduce threats to the safety of persons or property at sea or to the marine environment during operations on board fishing vessels.
these measures are aimed at improving safety conditions for this work and minimising threats to the marine environment.
the convention aims to ensure that personnel on board fishing vessels have the necessary qualifications (as attested by an official certificate) and the necessary fitness for work (as attested by a medical certificate) in order to minimise potential threats to the safety of human life, property at sea or the marine environment during operations on board fishing vessels.
as a native of the azores, i consider it essential that training centres be set up in the azores, especially when they are in the right place to enable extensive, intensive and sustainable use of the sea.
these measures are aimed at improving safety conditions for this work and minimising threats to the marine environment.
‒ the directive encourages the switch from traditional biofuels to second generation biofuels, with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the increasing use of agricultural land for biofuel production.
the new biofuels rules stipulate that the share of energy from 'classic' or first generation biofuels should not exceed 7% of the final energy consumption in transport in the member states in 2020. for 'advanced' or second generation biofuels, a non-binding target is set with a reference value of 0,5 percentage points in energy content of the share of energy from renewable sources in all forms of transport in 2020.
in writing.
the commission put forward a legislative proposal in 2012 with the aim of minimising greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions, mainly from road transport.
in 2009, as part of the 2020 climate and energy strategy, a dual target was set by 2020: 10% share of renewable energy (mainly biofuels) in the transport sector, introduced by the renewable energy directive, and a 6% reduction in the ghg intensity of fuels used in road and non-road transport, introduced by a revision of the fuel quality directive.
the effects of a shift in the use of agricultural land towards higher carbon productions is a well-founded concern in the proposed amendments.
this change may also raise questions of biodiversity and food sovereignty.
the rapporteur proposes setting targets for advanced biofuels to encourage a shift towards these fuels, which are less dependent on agricultural production and have a much greater capacity to reduce ghg emissions.
it also proposes that other renewable energy sources should be taken into account.
‒ the aim of the commission proposal, which was presented in october 2012, is to start the transition to a biofuels policy that can substantially minimise greenhouse gas emissions, also taking into account emissions associated with indirect land use change (iluc).
i hope that the adoption of this report will give a major boost to our efforts to increase the use of renewable energy.
‒ according to this report, by 2020, each member state should ensure that the share of energy from renewable energy sources in all modes of transport represents at least 10% of the final consumption of energy in transport in its member state.
i support this report because i believe that we must increasingly rely on sustainable and environmentally friendly sources of energy, and renewable energy sources are a good example of the kind of sustainability that is desired.
however, i would like to stress the importance of other measures to reduce energy consumption (rationalization of transport modes) and of increasing research and development into new energy sources.
‒ i support the harmonisation of eu directives and legislation in order to start a biofuels policy that can minimise greenhouse gas emissions.
investment in the environment in the european union is urgently needed in the short and long term in pursuing a greener europe and achieving the 2020 targets.
‒ the effects of a shift in the use of agricultural land towards higher carbon crops for biofuel production, including its own contribution to ghg production, which may occur when existing agricultural production is shifted to other previously uncultivated land, and a very highlighted concern in the proposed amendments.
the rapporteur proposes setting targets for advanced biofuels to encourage a shift towards these fuels, which are less dependent on agricultural production and have a much greater capacity to reduce ghg emissions.
it also proposes that other renewable energy sources be taken into account and that electric vehicles be promoted.
although the titles of the communication, the directives and this report refer to the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the fact is that these texts make little mention of other scenarios than biofuels, suggesting that under the pretext of noble objectives, such as the reduction of factors that cause climate change, such as ghgs, another potentially very lucrative business is promoted, which could mean the loss of agricultural production to feed the people, in order to have agricultural production for the production of raw material for biofuels.
they introduce a target for next-generation biofuels, which should be encouraged, in particular in the framework of the research and innovation policy set out in horizon 2020 and the energy union principles.
they call on the commission to present an ambitious proposal for the promotion and use of renewable energy in transport for the period after 2020. in addition to the necessary incentives for the most advanced technologies, in particular for new generation biofuels that minimise competition with other rows and the emission of greenhouse gases, i believe that the conditions are finally in place to pursue the ambitious objective of developing electric mobility.
‒ the commission presented a legislative proposal in october 2012 with the aim of initiating a transition to a biofuel policy that can significantly minimise greenhouse gas emissions, especially in road transport.
in 2009, as part of the 2020 climate and energy strategy, a dual target was set by 2020: 10% share of renewable energy (mainly biofuels) in the transport sector, introduced by the renewable energy directive, and a 6% reduction in the greenhouse gas intensity of fuels used in road and non-road transport, introduced by a revision of the fuel quality directive.
although the titles of the communication, the directives and this report refer to the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, the fact is that in these texts little is said about other scenarios than biofuels, suggesting that under the pretext of noble objectives such as the reduction of factors that cause climate change, such as ghgs, another potentially very lucrative business is promoted, which could mean the loss of agricultural production to feed the people, in order to have agricultural production for the production of raw material for biofuels.
because of their low recycling value, plastic bags are now a serious environmental problem, since they constitute, together with bottles, the majority of the plastic waste that accumulates in european seas and can last for hundreds of years, mainly in the form of fragments.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of waste generation should be amended to include the following elements:
‒ nearly 100 billion plastic bags are consumed in the eu every year, a figure that is expected to rise to 111 billion by 2020 if no action is taken to reduce them by then.
89% are used once before they become waste.
in the eu, plastic bags are considered to be packaging according to the packaging and packaging waste directive 1994. the new legislation amends that directive to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags, i.e.
this can be achieved by campaigns to raise awareness and environmental awareness, by encouraging the repackaging or re-transport of goods marketed by the various sectors and by calling on member states to promote the use of alternatives.
pollution is no less harmful if someone pays more or less.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the community, and has recently launched a new initiative to combat the pollution of the environment.
plastic bags are among the most polluting items and their indiscriminate use only contributes to the deterioration of the environment.
i am in favour of this report, which i regard as a measure for environmental protection and of great importance for the rational use of plastic bags throughout the european union.
‒ reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic bags is relevant as it limits the negative impacts on the environment.
‒ the consumption and disposal of lightweight plastic bags is a serious environmental problem, and one that according to eu surveys is at the top of the list of environmental concerns of europeans.
i fully support the objectives of this legislation, namely to limit the impacts of waste production on the environment and to prevent and reduce waste production.
finally, we have binding measures in the eu to slow down the production of waste.
as regards the designation of 'degradable oxo-waste' proposed mainly by the producers of plastic bags, the council proposes to carry out further studies of the environmental impact of these products.
rather, research and development of solutions that avoid the harm associated with plastic bags by replacing them in their various uses should be encouraged, and environmental awareness and awareness campaigns should be promoted and supported by encouraging the change of packaging or means of transport of goods traded by the various sectors.
regulation of emissions from shipping has been identified as a need in the context of air quality and climate policy-making both at european and intercontinental level.
i support the report by mr josé inácio faria because it establishes a system for monitoring, reporting and verification (mcv) of greenhouse gas emissions from the maritime sector at european union level, which will make it possible to develop policies to reduce emissions associated with the sector in line with the general policies on climate, air pollution and the protection of human health.
‒ international shipping is the only means of transport that remains outside the eu's greenhouse gas reduction commitment.
emissions from this sector currently account for 4% of eu-wide emissions.
this regulation introduces a european-wide system for the monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv system) of co2 emissions from maritime transport.
the aim is to increase transparency on ship emissions and create an incentive to reduce them.
from 1 january 2018, ship-owners will have to monitor and report co2 emissions from ships of more than 5000 gross tonnage, which represent around 55% of ships calling at eu ports and around 90% of associated emissions.
the new rules apply to co2 emissions from voyages to, from and between european ports.
‒ in april 2014, parliament adopted at first reading the proposal for the introduction of a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying co2 emissions from maritime transport.
the council's position is in line with the objectives discussed and negotiated with parliament on the eu's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the white paper on transport, which calls for policies to this end, given the dependence of this sector on the use of fossil fuels and the fact that its emissions also contribute to air pollution and climate change.
we welcome a monitoring, reporting and verification system which serves the purpose of providing better information not only on the amount of greenhouse gases (ghgs) emitted by this sector but also on the collection of concrete data which will allow the development of concrete policies to deal with the issue of ghg emissions, which is why we voted in favour.
‒ this regulation requires owners of ships entering and leaving eu ports to monitor and report carbon dioxide (co2) emissions from january 2018. the new rules apply to ships of more than 5000 gross tonnage, regardless of flag state, and represent a first step towards reducing co2 emissions from shipping.
the new regulation introduces a european-wide system for monitoring, reporting and verifying (mrv system) co2 emissions from shipping.
the aim is to increase transparency on ship emissions and create an incentive to reduce them.
i do not disagree with the real need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from shipping.
the pollution must be tackled by increasing the use of alternative fuels such as lng.
‒ the establishment of a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from shipping is important as we move towards green and sustainable goals.
in the present day, ecological and environmentally friendly behaviour should be encouraged and stimulated, and as such this system is advantageous in the context of sustainable ecology.
it will certainly be an advantage to have greater control over carbon dioxide emissions from shipping.
‒ carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels are the main cause of so-called 'greenhouse gases' and thus intensify global climate change and ocean acidification.
all sources of emissions must be reduced as a matter of urgency.
i hope that this initiative will go further in bringing about the necessary change in european energy options in the maritime transport sector.
‒ the council's position is in line with the discussions and negotiations with parliament on the eu's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the transport white paper which requires policies to be implemented in this regard.
this sector is dependent on the use of fossil fuels and its emissions also contribute to air pollution and climate change.
we welcome a monitoring, reporting and verification system which serves the purpose of providing better information not only on the amount of ghg emitted by this sector but also on the collection of concrete data which will allow the development of concrete policies to deal with the issue of ghg emissions.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the regulation on carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport because, although it is not yet fully satisfactory, it has the merit of pointing to a more efficient and ethical use of biofuels, allowing a european regulatory framework, in the absence of international regulation, on the monitoring, reporting and verification of greenhouse gas emissions and air pollutants from the maritime sector, in the wider context of the fight against climate change.
‒ in april 2014, parliament adopted at first reading the proposal for the introduction of a system for monitoring, reporting and verifying co2 emissions from maritime transport.
the council's position is in line with the objectives discussed and negotiated with parliament on the eu's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and with the white paper on transport, which calls for policies to this end, given the dependence of this sector on the use of fossil fuels and the fact that its emissions also contribute to air pollution and climate change.
we welcome a monitoring, reporting and verification system which serves the purpose of providing better information not only on the amount of greenhouse gases (ghgs) emitted by this sector but also on the collection of concrete data which will allow the development of concrete policies to deal with the issue of ghg emissions, which is why we voted in favour.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the plan shall provide for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities and, consequently, of the livelihoods of fishermen.
i support the report in question, arguing that the multiannual plan should contribute to rebuilding, achieving and maintaining the populations of the species concerned at acceptable levels of sustainability, and to minimizing as far as possible the impact on other species such as seabirds and the marine environment in general.
the regulation sets out specific measures that will contribute to the balance of the ecosystem and the species concerned.
to this extent, and since stocks of fishery resources are finite and others are overexploited, measures are needed to ensure the sustainability of the resources and of the fishing industry itself.
i therefore agree with this plan and believe that it should provide for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of stocks, based on responsible and forward-looking management, based on up-to-date scientific advice.
the european union committed itself in 2002 to maintain and restore fisheries resources to levels that can produce a maximum sustainable yield, on an urgent basis then and if possible no later than 2015. the first multiannual plan is now voted on and it is our duty to make this precedent precise and appropriate.
the fishing rate must therefore be set at a level of maximum sustainable catch mortality that ensures that current economic income does not undermine its stability for the future.
setting a target of 80% of the expected fishing mortality to maintain maximum sustainable yield will ensure that the promise made in 2002 is delivered further.
the plan shall provide for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities and, consequently, of the livelihoods of fishermen.
the text states that discards are a considerable waste and compromise the sustainable exploitation of marine organisms and ecosystems and that since the general compliance by operators with the landing obligation is essential for it to have the expected effects, the non-compliance with the landing obligation should be categorised as a serious infringement, but given two years to adapt to the new rule.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is an urgent need to move towards a sustainable model of fishing compatible with the protection of marine resources and the marine environment.
‒ i think it is very important to stress that this regulation will effectively mark the transition from the previous common fisheries policy, which was geared towards maximising catches, to the new common fisheries policy, which is geared towards environmental sustainability and the optimisation of yields.
high levels of discards are identified as an important driver of the lack of environmental sustainability of the cfp in the impact assessment carried out for the proposal for the basic regulation for the cfp.
this is just one more of them, referring to economic, trade and investment cooperation, with a separate procedure for matters falling within the competence of the european atomic energy community.
the report also calls for the european parliament to be given the right to vote on the proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
wood is a renewable resource that is often under-utilized in europe and the smart and sustainable use of this raw material must be ensured, in particular through the development and exchange of know-how.
given that many eu policy areas, such as energy, environmental and climate protection policy, influence forest management, i agree that a new eu forest strategy, focused on better coordination, is urgently needed so that forestry and forests are better positioned in the different european strategies and a more coherent approach can be found.
although some of our proposals are reflected in the report, such as the protection of biodiversity, the creation of specific support measures for the prevention of forest fires and pests, the need and function of the forest for the protection of soil erosion and the need to recover much of the vegetation cover lost by poor and unsustainable forest management, we regret that several other proposals we made were not considered.
this report is being hampered by pressure from the large groups linked to the timber and energy sectors.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
forestry policies that take into account the importance of forests in protecting biodiversity, preventing soil erosion, carbon sequestration, air purification and maintaining the water cycle are required.
i am voting in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of sustainable forest management and its multifunctional role from an economic, social and environmental point of view, as well as its positive impact on biodiversity and the mitigation of climate change.
i also stress the need for forest resources to be used and reused efficiently, making a decisive contribution to the proper and sustainable management of forests.
it is important that the commission has a new eu strategy for forests, but it is also important to safeguard the sustainable and responsible management of forests, balancing their multifunctional role in economic, social and environmental terms.
‒ forests are an absolutely central asset of our union, which should be preserved and managed in a sustainable way.
given its cross-cutting nature, it is necessary for the union to have an integrated strategy for sustainable forest management (together with, for example, energy, environmental and climate protection policy) and to develop an action plan on deforestation/forest degradation, encouraging the conservation and management of existing forests as well as the reforestation of previously deforested areas.
in terms of support to member states, i share the view that the eu should support national policies for sustainable forest management and strengthen prevention and cooperation on increasingly common cross-border challenges such as forest fires, climate change and natural disasters.
finally, i would also like to stress, as the rapporteur has done, the importance of the sustainable production and use of materials such as wood or cork for the creation of green jobs and as a means of promoting greater research and innovation in the sector.
‒ the updating of the european forest strategy should take into account the need to safeguard the multifunctional role of forests and to contribute to their sustainable management.
the first are fundamental instruments for the conservation, recovery and promotion of natural capital, biodiversity and ecosystems, and explain the management objectives of the natura network.
the evolving climate change context brings new risks, such as increased occurrence of fires and pests and diseases, which require increased attention from public policies.
the recognition that forests serve the social, environmental and economic interests as well as the interests of all the ecosystems that exist in them.
this strategy fails, however, to recognise the growing conflicts between the various sectors that depend on forestry and the growing demand for biomass from the energy sector.
we regret that many of the proposals we made in the committee on agriculture have not been considered, in particular the need to create criteria which reflect the great diversity of the type of forests in europe, criteria for environmental and social value above any logic of financial profit, the need to recognise the various agroforestry activities and their social and economic function.
the report before us today is being pushed by the major groups linked to the wood and energy sectors, as can be seen in the amendments adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development, such as point k (considering that, due to the growth of the world population, there is an increasing demand for energy, so forests must play a more important role in the future energy mix of the eu).
the recognition that forests serve the social, environmental and economic interests as well as the interests of all the ecosystems that exist in them.
this strategy fails, however, in not recognising the growing conflicts between the various sectors that depend on the forest and the growing demand for biomass by the energy sector.
however, the report which parliament is presenting to us today is under pressure from the major groups linked to the timber and energy sectors, as can be seen in the amendments adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development, such as point (k).
tomorrow's sustainable employment depends on investment today in the education and training of young people, as well as on reforms that make it easier for learners to transition between different types and degrees of education and between education and employment.
state aid is an important economic policy instrument to boost economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular to enable the state to intervene in order to realise its strategic choices, to ensure the financing of public services and to compensate undertakings which provide services of general interest.'
‒ we know that state aid is an important economic policy instrument to boost economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular so that the state can intervene in order to realise its strategic options, ensure the financing of public services and compensate companies that promote so-called 'services of general interest'.
we know that state aid is an important economic policy instrument to boost economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular so that the state can intervene in order to realise its strategic choices, ensure the financing of public services and compensate undertakings that promote so-called 'services of general interest'.
these categories include aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, research, development and innovation, environmental protection, employment and training, among others.
we consider that state aid is an important economic policy instrument to stimulate economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular so that the state can intervene in order to implement its strategic options.
we consider that state aid is an important economic policy instrument to stimulate economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular so that the state can intervene in order to implement its strategic options.
the objective of article 108 of the treaty is to verify whether aid granted by states or through state resources is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107. we consider that state aid is an important economic policy instrument to stimulate economic, social, environmental and regional development, in particular so that the state can intervene in order to implement its strategic options.
employment policy, environment, education or public health).
‒ having regard to the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget of the european institutions and agencies for the financial year 2013, which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, and to other legal provisions contained in the recitals of the proposal for a decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (the 'agency') for the financial year 2013 was eur 11 930 220, an increase of 64,74% compared to 2012, which can be explained by the nature of the newly established agency.
the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the agency's annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision granting the director of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
the budget implementation of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators did not present any significant problems.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2013.
‒ the final budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 49 270 722, representing an increase of 18,16% compared to 2012 mainly related to operational expenditure for strategic actions.
the agency devotes 71% of its human resources to operational tasks, which represents a slight increase compared to the situation in 2012. the agency has awarded grants, in five grant programmes, to a consortium of european environmental institutions and bodies, united nations organisations and national environmental organisations, representing 31% of the overall operating expenditure.
in this context and after assessing the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the executive director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2013.
the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency did not present any major problems.
in general terms, the agency provides technical and scientific support to the commission in the area of maritime safety and prevention of pollution from ships, developing and updating legislation, as well as monitoring its implementation and evaluating the effectiveness of the measures adopted, with the main objective of preventing future problems and accidents.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications, and with an allocation of eur 420 000 000 from the budget of the seventh research framework programme.
‒ as this is a budgetary matter concerning the implementation of the budget for the european institutions and agencies for 2013, and taking into account the annual report of the court of auditors which ensures the reliability, legality and regularity of the accounts, as well as other legal provisions in the recitals of the draft decision, i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
in this context and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of this decision giving the director of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2013.
this was the case with the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013. i would remind you that the discharge procedure is the instrument which ensures accountability and transparency in the management of community funds and the supervision of the growing number of european agencies.
along with hunger and malnutrition, food waste and obesity are on the rise.
we produce more food than we need, and at the same time we contribute to the degradation of the environment.
the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment and for the development of a european information system for the protection of the environment.
‒ on 24 april 2013, the rana plaza, an eight-storey building in savar, on the outskirts of dhaka, where several garment factories were located, collapsed, killing more than 1100 people and injuring more than 2500. as a result of these tragic events and with public protests and calls for action by the european parliament, the eu, in collaboration with the government of bangladesh and the world labour organisation, launched on 8 july 2013 the 'pact for the continuous improvement of labour rights and factory safety in the knitting and knitwear industry in bangladesh' (the sustainability pact), under which bangladesh committed to take action to improve labour standards and working conditions in the country's garment industry.
i therefore stress the absolute need for future monitoring of the implementation of the ongoing measures (the sustainability compact, the agreement, the alliance and the better work programme) by the international community (notably the ilo, the eu, the us, the business and trade union community) and for support to the government of bangladesh so that these measures (and other announced ones, such as the amendment of the labour law) are effectively implemented on the ground, intensified (e.g.
the efforts to combat human trafficking, the promotion of human rights and the climate of religious tolerance and good inter-ethnic relations in the country are also to be commended.
albania has made significant progress in recent years towards eu accession and was therefore granted candidate country status in june 2014. the opening of eu accession negotiations depends on the consistent adoption and effective implementation of sustainable reforms in the five key priorities, namely public administration reform, strengthening the judiciary, fighting corruption and organised crime, and strengthening the protection of human rights.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
this resolution strongly supports the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina and believes that the eu's enhanced engagement should focus, inter alia, on socioeconomic issues, the business environment, the institutional framework, the rule of law and governance, law enforcement policy, the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, public administration reform, civil society and youth.
i note that some progress has been made, particularly in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, but there are still areas such as gender equality, social protection and the environment where progress has been very limited.
the eib is accused of acting with opacity, without satisfactory social and environmental standards and of being involved in controversial projects such as the tenke fungurume mining project in the democratic republic of congo (drc), just one example among many.
it stresses the need to strike a new balance between better valuation and the best possible investment, and to steer the economy towards sustainable growth and a job-creating recovery.
the report therefore calls for efforts to be made to extend joint interventions to finance smes or sustainable infrastructure, whether tangible or intangible, recognising that one of the reasons for the investment and credit crunch is the loss of competitiveness of member states' economies.
i end by underlining the importance of the eib following the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and further pointing out that the european fund for strategic investments should take due account of the general objectives of territorial, social and economic cohesion policy, as well as sustainability and energy efficiency.
among the criticisms that have been levelled at the eib are allegations of opacity, lack of satisfactory social and environmental standards and involvement in controversial projects.
among the criticisms that have been levelled at the eib are allegations of opacity, lack of satisfactory social and environmental standards and involvement in controversial projects.
‒ with the expo theme 'feeding the planet: energy for life', it is important to significantly boost the debate on improving food production and distribution, combating food waste, promoting and developing existing positive strategies to address the challenge of food insecurity, undernutrition and food imbalances, and creating a balance between the availability and consumption of resources.
‒ this resolution is the result of the decision of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the eu's participation in expo milano 2015. the eu will be represented at expo milano with a pavilion under the theme 'feeding the planet: energy for life'.
after several hearings in the committee on agriculture on this topic, it was agreed that topics such as food security, the fight against food waste and the promotion of healthy eating and nutritional requirements, through the promotion of research and education, would be raised and focused in order to help prevent and eradicate malnutrition and prevent obesity.
the resolution omits some important aspects, such as the defence of small farms and sustainable agriculture against intensive production methods, soil erosion, deforestation, water scarcity and the loss of biodiversity, which lead precisely to the lack of food on the planet.
the milan world expo will run from 1 may to 30 october 2015, and will be devoted to the theme 'feeding the planet: energy for life'.
the united nations food and agriculture organization (fao) on the other hand predicts that the world population will grow from 7 to 9.1 billion, requiring a 70% increase in food supply by the year 2050. to meet the challenge of food security, this resolution considers the following components to be essential: a strong and sustainable agricultural sector in the eu, a prosperous and diversified rural economy, a clean environment and family farms ensured by a sound, fair, internationally sustainable and adequately funded common agricultural policy.
‒ i support this motion for a resolution on the eu's participation in the 2015 world expo in milan, entitled 'feeding the planet: energy for life', which will take place between 1 may and 30 october 2015, as it is a unique opportunity for the eu to massively disseminate its main achievements in the fields of food and sustainability.
the initiative coincides with the closing year of the millennium development goals and the start of a post-2015 framework that will also address the sustainable development goals.
at the same time, the europe 2020 strategy will also be halfway through its implementation period, so expo milano will serve not only as a channel for presenting the strategy's interim results, but also for disseminating its objectives for the future, especially in the areas of food security and sustainability.
as such, the eu's participation in this exhibition represents a unique opportunity to strengthen its role as a global player in the development of future initiatives on food, health and food safety and to communicate with citizens and raise awareness of current challenges and future sustainability goals.
along with hunger and malnutrition, food waste and obesity are on the rise.
we produce more food than we need, and at the same time we contribute to the degradation of the environment.
‒ next may the eu will be represented at expo milano with a pavilion under the theme 'feeding the planet, energy for life'.
after several hearings in the committee on agriculture on this topic, it was agreed that topics such as food security, the fight against food waste and the promotion of healthy eating and nutritional requirements, through the promotion of research and education, which help to prevent and eradicate malnutrition and prevent obesity, would be raised and focused.
the resolution omits some important aspects such as the defence of small farms, such as the defence and promotion of sustainable agriculture against the extensive production methods of large farms which cause, among other problems, soil erosion, deforestation, promote climate change, lack of water and loss of biodiversity, which lead precisely to the lack of food on the planet.
pollution has turned the niger delta into one of the most polluted places on the planet.
in this context, the attacks by boko haram between 3 and 8 january 2015 on baga and 16 neighbouring towns and villages resulted in the destruction of 3 700 structures and the death of thousands of people, and ushered in a climate of continued violence and permanent insecurity.
pollution has turned the niger delta into one of the most polluted places on the planet.
my opinion focused mainly on the commodity price assessments provided by the supervisory agencies and the physical energy markets.
we also know that the manipulation of commodity price valuations can put not only the investor but also the end user at risk, because it is this that determines the price that many households will pay for gas or any other energy supply.
and it is also very important that the private sector is more aligned with the objectives of sustainable development, with a regulatory framework that favours it and also with financial instruments and incentive structures that ensure that alignment.
and without ambition at the addis ababa conference, without adequate funding, the sustainable development goals, however beautiful, will not be off the paper.
tobacco production in europe plays an environmental and social role in an agricultural activity that remains relevant in some regions.
mr president, environmental protection, the efficient and sustainable use of resources, reuse and recycling, among other sustainable development objectives, are undoubtedly opportunities for the development of a wide range of small and mediumsized enterprises.
but here a word of caution: the market for environmental goods and services to which this report refers cannot justify or legitimize old or new forms of private appropriation of nature and its resources.
with this model, once again, it will be the big companies that will accumulate the gigantic profits generated by these new technologies, benefiting for this purpose from the legislative environment conducive to exploitation, provided, in a servile way, by the current governments and the current institutions of the european union.
will it be created under the pressure of reality, giving competitors an advantage over european companies, or will we be able to create favourable contexts in advance so that the union can lead in market niches such as health services, energy efficiency, cultural content, smart mobility or others that are critical to the competitiveness of our economy and the sustainability of our welfare state?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
employment policy, the environment, education or public health).
employment policy, the environment, education or public health).
‒ this year will be of the utmost importance in the development agenda with the adoption of the sustainable development goals which should guide national policies and international cooperation activities over the next 15 years, succeeding the millennium development goals, with the adoption of the agreement on global action against climate change and the international conference on financing for development, which will allow for the establishment of targets and plans for financing and implementation of the post-2015 agenda.
‒ 2015 is a pivotal year for global development efforts, with the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and an agreement on global action on climate change, valid until 2030.
‒ the european union is the world's largest donor of development aid, accounting for almost 60% of global official development assistance, and this year is pivotal for global development efforts, with the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and an agreement on global action on climate change, valid until 2030. the importance of the challenge of financing the sustainable development goals (sdgs) requires a strong and comprehensive partnership and the use of all forms of financing (national, international, public, private and innovative resources) and non-financial means; private financing can complement, but not replace, public financing.
‒ 2015 is a pivotal year for global development efforts, with the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and an agreement on global action on climate change, valid until 2030. the third international conference on financing for development, to be held in addis ababa, ethiopia, from 13 to 16 july 2015, should therefore create the conditions for the financing and implementation of the post-2015 agenda.
‒ the topic of patient safety and the fight against drug resistance, especially antimicrobial resistance, is certainly not unknown to anyone involved in the management of health systems or who has attended the sessions of the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety in recent years.
‒ patient safety and the fight against drug resistance, especially resistance to antimicrobial agents, are widely discussed issues both by the world health organisation (who) and by european institutions such as the commission, the council and the specialised agencies (ecdc, ema, efsa) and the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
‒ the sectors covered by green growth provide major economic and environmental benefits to smes, which are the backbone of the european economy and are important drivers of economic growth and job creation.
‒ the report begins by declaring its support for the concept of green growth, the economically viable exploitation of wind, solar, hydro and geothermal energy, energy efficiency and resource use, waste management, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the circular flow of recycling and reuse of raw materials.
smes are the backbone of the european union's economy and are the key drivers of europe's long-term economic growth and the creation of sustainable employment opportunities in the 28 member states.
the opportunities arising from this cover multiple areas of significant importance, such as renewable energy sources and in particular the economically viable exploitation of wind, solar, hydro and geothermal energy , energy efficiency, resource efficiency, waste management, emission reduction, electrification and the circular flow of recycling and reuse of materials.
renewable energy, forestry, waste management) but also to the amount of jobs that could be generated in the future.
‒ smes represent more than 98% of european enterprises and account for more than 67% of total employment in the union and 58% of gross value added, thus constituting the backbone of the eu economy and a key driver of its long-term economic growth and the creation of sustainable employment opportunities in the 28 member states.
the global market for environmental goods and services is estimated to be worth €1 trillion per year and is expected to double or even triple by 2020, creating huge opportunities for european smes and for eu economic growth in general.
‒ this report calls on policy makers to fully understand the potential of the green economy at the level of smes, as they now represent over 98% of european enterprises and account for over 67% of total employment in the union, and are one of the pillars of the european economy, long-term economic growth and the creation of sustainable employment opportunities in the 28 member states.
‒ in the face of the employment crisis and the lack of sustainability in employment, smes have a social role and added value that deserve our full attention.
by combining sustainability with concepts such as the circular economy, regionalisation, knowledge, innovation, the latest digital technologies, bureaucratization, entrepreneurship and micro-credit, we will be fostering a more equitable, transparent, fair and inclusive society.
‒ the report supports the concept of green growth, the economically viable exploitation of wind, solar, hydro and geothermal energy, energy efficiency and resource use, waste management, emission reduction, circular flow of recycling and reuse of materials and highlights the importance of the role of smes in this comprehensive framework for promoting job creation and economic growth.
‒ the report begins by declaring its support for the concept of green growth, the economically viable exploitation of wind, solar, hydro and geothermal energy, energy efficiency and resource use, waste management, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the circular flow of recycling and reuse of raw materials.
it is in the strategic sense and consistency of all internal security and external action policies, including development, trade and energy supply policies, that the european union must act on all fronts to help people resolve conflicts, get rid of oppressive regimes and to tackle other causes of migration flows, such as poverty.
in addition to economic cooperation, the agreement contains other provisions covering a range of areas of cooperation which are of great relevance for development, such as social cooperation, environmental cooperation, particularly in the field of climate change, cultural cooperation, cooperation in the fight against drugs and money laundering, cooperation in the field of health and, in particular, the fight against aids.
moreover, the way in which the regulation defines the centre of the debtor company's main interests, the location of which is decisive for the choice of the member state in which the main insolvency proceedings may be opened, does not preclude such a location from being deliberately chosen because it has a legislative environment favourable to the interests of shareholders and thus unfavourable to those of employees, which provides incentives for member states to use their company law as a tool of legislative competition to the detriment of the rights of employees.
this objective is linked to the eu's current policies to promote economic recovery and sustainable growth, a higher investment rate and the preservation of jobs, as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy.
the commission explicitly states that quantum dot leds (with and without cadmium) for lighting are not yet available and acknowledges that their positive environmental impact could therefore not be demonstrated.
‒ the regulatory role of the european union in promoting sustainable development and often opening legislative pathways to international standards is recognised.
at the same time, through funding programmes such as horizon 2020, the union has catalysed scientific and technological research, which is the basis for much of the innovation that reduces the effects of pollution and offers citizens in general a better quality of life.
i think we need to continue to promote sustainable solutions and to discourage the use of techniques and methods that are outdated or have environmentally more suitable alternatives.
for that reason, i voted to make this delegated directive unworkable and to impose the best available environmental and technological practices.
this objection was raised in view of the fact that the production of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin uses land necessary for sustainable food production mainly in southern europe, whereas the large-scale production of biofuels, which are much more profitable, could make it difficult and take away access to land for farmers and make the fight against hunger much more difficult.
this objection was raised in view of the fact that the production of ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin uses land necessary for sustainable food production mainly in southern europe, whereas the large-scale production of biofuels, which are much more profitable, could make it difficult and take away access to land for farmers and make the fight against hunger much more difficult.
‒ the european food safety authority, in a recent scientific opinion on the risk assessment of xylella fastidiosa, has shown that 'intensive use of insecticide treatments to limit disease transmission and control the vector insect can have direct and indirect impacts on the environment by altering entire food webs with chain-linked consequences, thus affecting different food levels'.
i am voting in favour of this resolution for asking the commission to carry out a cost-benefit analysis of the eradication strategy, for calling for consideration of alternative measures depending on the extent of the spread of the bacterium, the plants affected and the strain of the bacterium, and for urging the commission to limit the large-scale use of pesticides and to implement directive 2009/128/ec establishing a framework for community action on the sustainable use of pesticides.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
animal and plant diseases can have devastating economic and environmental effects and the risk of spread is high in this context.
madam president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, next june the second eu-celac summit will take place in brussels under the theme: building our common future, working to create prosperous, cohesive and sustainable societies for our citizens.
this is a unique opportunity to deepen the policy dialogue on innovation for sustainable growth, education, security and climate change.
madam president, madam minister, in the current geostrategic context, all summits are very important, especially if the european union can participate in these summits with a clear vision of its priorities, with a clear vision to consolidate a sustainable, peaceful and people-centred globalisation.
there is ample scope for joint work in consolidating the processes of democratic stabilisation and openness and in deepening and developing free trade agreements which contain the social and environmental standards which constitute a european reference for the new globalisation.
we expect a new impetus for free trade processes, in particular with mercosur, we expect an articulated vision for the paris climate summit and clear signs of willingness to cooperate in the energy transition process.
madam president, commissioner, the european energy regulators agency was and is one of the elements of the so-called energy package.
this package consists of a comprehensive strategy, defined at eu level, to privatise and liberalise the energy sector.
in this case, new bureaucracies are emerging at national and european level, with greater external control over what happens in each country, in a strategic area such as energy, which affects all sectors of society horizontally.
‒ the security environment in the european union and its neighbouring regions to the east and south is increasingly unstable and volatile, due to the high number of security problems, both long-standing and recent, which will only be effectively addressed if its structures and its member states work together in a common and truly coordinated effort in the context of the cfsp/csdp.
in the report, the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's policy on the environment to include the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
‒ the increasing challenges of the security environment inside and outside the union, characterised by new risks and threats that no member state is able to address on its own, require a strengthening of the csdp to make it a more effective policy instrument and an effective guarantor of the security of eu citizens and the promotion of european interests and values.
madam president, commissioner, the meeting of the g7 economics ministers and central bank governors in dresden is already anticipating what will be yet another space for reaffirming the policies and guidelines that have led the peoples of europe and the world to disgrace, economic destruction, social and environmental devastation.
a space to reaffirm all the fallacies about fighting terrorism and climate change.
and what we hope is a clear political signal of an effective commitment to building a more just and sustainable world, able to face the drama of poverty that challenges the dignity of the human person, and that is what will be decided at three very important conferences, starting already with the addis ababa conference on financing for development.
what is now being discussed is not sustainable development in 2030, but financing for development in each of the 15 years between now and 2030, and the european union is not making any concrete commitments to this end.
the talks on sustainable development and cooperation with africa are very beautiful, but they will only go beyond that if these commitments are not to be taken seriously and if they are not accompanied by financial commitments appropriate to our ambitions.
this meeting of g7 economics ministers and central bank governors in dresden allows for the confirmation of the policies and guidelines that have led europe to economic destruction and social and environmental devastation.
we'll hear the usual fallacies about fighting terrorism and climate change, passing over the final statements of this summit plus some uncomfortable, though unavoidable, facts for the g7 gentlemen.
the meeting of the g7 economy ministers and central bank governors in dresden already anticipates what will be yet another space for reaffirming the policies and orientations that have led the peoples of europe and the world to disgrace, economic destruction and social and environmental devastation; a space, surely, for reaffirming the blackmail and pressure on greece and the greek people and reaffirming known fallacies about the fight against terrorism and climate change.
i am also in favour of incorporating into the programme such issues as healthy eating habits and the fight against food waste.
the proposal has two main objectives: on the one hand to include essential products such as fresh fruit and vegetables in the diet, with a view to linking them to agriculture, public health and the environment, and on the other hand to allocate separate financial envelopes to the member states for the fruit, vegetables and milk sectors, taking account of the specificities of the type of products and their distribution chains.
it is a report which is incisive in its diagnosis: it is true that we cannot continue to be trapped in outdated economic models, which are unsustainable from an environmental point of view and are based on an obsolete gender division of labour, which has been superseded by the integration of women into the labour market.
this is an important and unequivocal signal to our external partners of the union's commitment to halting global warming, already embedded in its 2020 energy and climate strategy.
we must continue to make efforts and there is much work to be done to secure ambitious and binding commitments at the paris conference of the united nations framework convention on climate change, which will take place later this year and involve 195 countries.
in europe, we are making good progress in reducing co2 emissions in certain areas, such as the industrial, energy and housing sectors.
on the other hand, we continue to see co2 emissions in the transport sector rise because of forms of mobility that we have not yet changed, or because we are tied to sectoral interests, or because of technological barriers, or because of the need for huge investments to effect the transition to a new mobility paradigm.
the negotiating process cannot be dragged on indefinitely and there are countries for whom climate change is a threat to their very existence.
the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997, setting a binding target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions at international level.
the eu has proposed a 20% reduction in its emissions (compared to 1990) for the second commitment period of kyoto.
despite the frequent publicity about the eu's 'leadership' role in combating climate change, this figure fell short of the united nations panel on climate change's recommendation of a reduction of at least 25% by 2020. but above all, the biggest problem is that the eu still has a market-based approach to climate change, which is ineffective and perverse, and the carbon market is a prime example of this.
madam president, several important issues arise when we approach a strategy for energy security in europe: the critical importance of progress in energy efficiency in transport, industry and buildings; the need to diversify the sources of energy supply both internally and externally; the increased use of renewable energy and the recognition of the inevitable exhaustion of fossil fuels; the need for major investments in energy production and distribution chains and in research and development of less mature technologies; the need to lift certain member states out of energy isolation.
finally, these and other issues will only be properly addressed and implemented within the framework of public, democratic control of the energy sector, including planning, production and distribution of energy.
it is not the miraculous virtues of the internal energy market that will ensure the objectives of progress, social justice, sustainability, development.
energy is a precious public good which must be rescued from the hands of private monopolies.
mr president, commissioner, the development of the single energy market is one of the areas where the european union has fallen behind in relation to the dynamics of globalisation, technology and the needs of sustainability and competitiveness.
we must therefore seize this opportunity, not only to respond to the immediate challenge, but to give a decisive boost to europe's leadership in the energy transition.
for example, the digital union dossier which links so strongly with the energy union and which pointed to security threats due to our delays in creating a regulated and transparent single market.
but let us return to energy security.
the strategic pillars highlighted in this report are appropriate: more efficiency, more own production with priority for renewable and environmentally friendly energy, technological leadership, an integrated market with strong interconnections, diversification of sources and geographical origins of the necessary imports.
the implementation of this strategy implies a single market and an energy union.
but it also means giving a new impetus to the sustainable growth of the european economy, with a new model of spatial organisation, mobility and social organisation.
energy security and economic change, too.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy policy is now of central importance for european competitiveness and for the union's climate objectives.
we need energy at competitive prices, energy that is safe, energy that is clean.
electricity interconnections are essential to balance higher levels of renewable energy penetration into the grid, thus helping to reduce its cost to the final consumer and the taxpayer.
furthermore, the gas interconnections and the existing capacity to receive liquefied natural gas in the iberian peninsula can also contribute to the diversification of supply sources, energy security and price convergence in europe.
i therefore stress the urgent need to implement the third energy package, to support investments in interconnection infrastructure and to ensure close and real-time monitoring by the european commission of the implementation of these priority projects.
the protocol was ratified by the eu in 2002. in march 2012, the council decided to propose a joint quantified commitment of a 20% reduction of the union's emissions below 1990 levels for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol.
the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the protocol, which includes legally binding emission reduction commitments, under which the eu and its member states are jointly committed to limit their average annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their reference annual emissions.
i supported this recommendation, as with this decision to ratify the doha amendment, the eu sends a clear signal regarding the efforts and leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change at international level.
member states are already implementing a 20% reduction in emissions by 2020. a new agreement is in the works with experts and meps joining forces to negotiate the text that will succeed the kyoto protocol, which is expected to be adopted in december 2015 and implemented from 2020.
the eu, its member states and iceland commit to limiting their average annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the period 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their emissions in the base year (generally 1990).
this commitment was determined on the basis of the total level of ghg emissions allowed during the period 2013-2020 under the eu climate and energy package and falls short of the one recommended by the united nations panel on climate change, despite all the hype about the eu's 'leadership' role in combating climate change.
we supported this resolution, even though we know that we are very different from the majority in parliament on the approach to climate change.
the effects of the liberalisation and deregulation of international trade and the absence of criticism of the carbon market are emphasised.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and on the joint fulfilment of its commitments.
a significant reduction in collective greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions is a clear sign of the eu's efforts and leadership in meeting the kyoto objectives to combat climate change at international level.
- i am voting in favour of this proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, as the formal entry into force of the doha amendment is among the european union's priority objectives, considering that the kyoto protocol constitutes a fundamental contribution to global efforts to combat climate change.
the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of the commitments undertaken by the european union will send a clear signal with regard to the efforts and leadership of the european union and its member states in addressing climate change at international level.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the period 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their emissions in the base year (generally 1990).
that commitment was determined on the basis of the total level of greenhouse gas emissions permitted for the period 2013 to 2020 under the eu climate and energy package.
given the importance of making ambitious commitments to combat climate change, in particular in order to achieve the objective of keeping the global temperature rise below 2°c, i voted in favour of this decision to approve the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with commitments to reduce annual average greenhouse gas emissions over the period 2013-2020. like the rapporteur, i believe that this decision on the joint fulfilment of the european union's commitments will send a clear signal regarding the efforts and leadership of the eu and its member states in tackling climate change at international level.
it is a pity that the countries with the highest pollution rates systematically abstain from participating.
the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change entered into force on 16 february 2005, establishing a set of legally binding emission reduction commitments for the period 2008 to 2012. in 2012, at the doha climate change conference, it was decided to approve an amendment to the kyoto protocol, which would establish a second commitment period, 2013-2020, with equally binding commitments to reduce emissions.
the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the period 2013-2020 to 80% of their emissions in the base year (generally 1990).
this commitment was determined on the basis of the total level of greenhouse gas emissions permitted for the period 2013-2020 under the eu climate and energy package.
‒ all efforts will be limited to achieving the ambitious targets that can mitigate the effects of climate change and one day reverse its effects.
the united states, china and japan are, along with the european union, the main culprits for the planet's unfortunate environmental condition.
as was the case with the call for global ocean governance put forward by commissioner vella during blue week in lisbon last week, the mechanisms for global environmental governance must be strengthened.
the agreement between the european union and the member states on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol is a clear signal for coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level.
during this period, the country had to limit its emissions increase to below 10% on average.
in the end, emissions decreased on average by 2% during this period.
the agreement on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change will be a clear signal for coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level.
the eu, its member states and iceland commit to reducing their average annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 20% in the period 2013 to 2020. that commitment was determined on the basis of the total level of ghg emissions permitted for the period 2013 to 2020 under the eu climate and energy package, which falls short of the level recommended by the united nations panel on climate change.
as for its participation in the emissions trading scheme, although this is a sovereign decision of iceland, we reiterate our criticism and deep disagreement with it.
‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments under the second period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc).
the eu is a strategic player in the international climate change negotiations and this agreement is further proof of its serious commitment to delivering on its commitments together.
iceland participates in the eu emission trading scheme (ets) and the greenhouse gas emissions monitoring and reporting mechanism.
i am voting in favour of this report because i share the rapporteur's view that the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments under the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change will be a clear signal for coordinated european efforts to combat climate change at international level.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the period 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their emissions in the base year (generally 1990).
i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement, considering it to be another sign of the european union's determination to combat climate change and to define an ambitious policy in this field.
it is yet another clear signal from the eu to european efforts to combat climate change at international level.
although iceland is not an eu member state, it also intends to fulfil its commitment under the eu climate and energy package with regard to the targets of this 'second period' of the kyoto protocol, together with the eu and its member states.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of nuclear safety, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the use of radioactive waste in the transport of nuclear materials.
more countries need to be engaged in fully meeting the targets set out in kyoto and other relevant conventions to combat and mitigate climate change.
as with the so-called ozone hole, we need to take swift and decisive action that will make a real difference.
i congratulate the european union for aligning itself with iceland, a country that has managed to reduce emissions with a practically wasteful use of fossil fuels.
the question of the eu's energy dependence is worth mentioning, as the justification for pursuing the european energy security policy, which among other things provides for the transfer of energy dependence to the us, is being sought.
‒ global energy demand is increasing, forecast to increase by 27% by 2030. currently, more than 50% of the eu's energy needs are met by external suppliers, making the eu vulnerable in terms of its energy policy.
i believe that a common, coordinated and strong eu strategy is vital to moderate demand through energy efficiency on the one hand and to increase own energy production and define measures for an integrated, coordinated and effective internal energy market on the other.
the eastern partners are not reliable when they use energy supply as a political weapon.
so sources and supply routes must be diversified, and efforts must also be stepped up to implement projects for strategic energy infrastructure in europe.
the energy island phenomenon must be brought to an end.
‒ the eu's over-reliance on imports from russia, demand moderation, prices, renewable energy, the achievement of a fully integrated internal energy market, levels of electricity and gas interconnection and investment are some of the issues addressed in this report.
it should be noted that the eu imports 53% of its total energy consumption.
the main challenges in this area are the creation of an energy union, demand moderation, increasing own energy production, developing energy technologies, achieving a fully integrated internal energy market, diversifying external supply and the need for coordination and solidarity between all member states.
the exclusive competence of the member states to define their energy targets, the need to find solutions and compromises in terms of technologies (technologically neutral approach) and prices, which will make it possible to support reindustrialisation processes, and the key role of renewable energies are highlighted.
the main points of view are: the market is seen as playing a decisive role in the management of energy issues, even if mitigated by possible mechanisms of solidarity; consumers are seen as becoming investors in energy assets; there is no clear and specific reference to the issue of the lack of energy resources (in the case of fossil fuels); and there is no consideration of strong state intervention, particularly in energy production and distribution and planning.
‒ we cannot continue to treat energy as a source of profit and income for multinationals and monopolies.
energy is a common good and any european energy strategy must take this into account.
the strategy outlined in this report is also to defend nuclear energy or the exploitation of shale gas.
it is true that the report mentions a change in the energy model, but it is all a deliberate and misleading misunderstanding, because the 'new' model to which the report is aiming is a model of dependence, which is unsustainable, asymmetrical and socially unfair, in other words, the complete opposite of what it should be.
‒ despite the increasing focus on renewable energy and the diversification of energy sources, the european union still imports 53% of its total energy consumption, namely 85% of oil, 67% of gas, 41% of solid fuels and around 95% of uranium.
it should also be noted that the eu is highly dependent on russian energy sources.
i am in favour of fusion and i believe that more strategic studies are needed on the banning of nuclear energy and the future use of shale gas.
however, because i believe that it is necessary to go further into energy issues in such fundamental areas as energy security and energy independence, i have decided to abstain in the final vote.
i would also like to take this opportunity to stress the special importance which must be attached to the outermost regions, which have natural economic, social and territorial constraints and where energy supply is becoming more difficult and more costly.
‒ the eu's external energy bill is over €1 billion per day €400 billion in 2013 and more than a fifth of the eu's total imports, largely dependent on a single country, the russian federation, which is the largest source of imports of oil (35%), gas (26%), coal (30%) and uranium (25%), often using its energy resources as a political weapon.
the prosperity and security of the eu require the rational use of energy and a stable, affordable and sustainable energy supply.
energy security is also political independence.
it is therefore essential to develop an energy security strategy based on technology and the decarbonisation of energy resources.
energy efficiency, renewable energy and smart infrastructure are three pillars that do not compromise our future.
‒ following the serious ukrainian crisis, the european commission proposed a european strategy for energy security in may 2014 and the committee on industry, research and energy of the european parliament decided to draw up an own-initiative report on this issue.
this report was structured to try to respond to the future challenges of the union in terms of its energy policy, stressing from the outset the importance of achieving the objective of the 'european energy union', the promotion of energy saving and efficiency, the increase of domestic energy production, the focus on technological innovation/research and development, the identification of constraints and the creation of european legislation that allows the development of a fully integrated european energy market, as well as in external terms, the diversification of energy sources and the absolute need for a single discourse across the union.
unfortunately, differences between the various political groups on the setting of binding energy efficiency targets, the use of nuclear energy or the legislative framework for shale gas exploitation led to the failure of this report and i abstained in the final vote.
in the light of the above, the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment against pollution, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by industrial activities, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks of chemicals, and the protection of the environment.
given the potential for instability and, in particular, europe's dependence on the black sea for the transit of energy supplies, the european union has a strategic interest in dissuading regional actors from adopting a reckless policy stance, if necessary by mobilising european naval and aerospace assets to the black sea.
the eu is a key partner for azerbaijan in energy, trade and political dialogue, but it is precisely with our partners that we must promote our values most.
while it is true that relations between the russian federation and the eu and its member states should seek peaceful solutions and not conflict, the eu must stand firm, in conjunction with nato, and ensure security in terms of energy, maritime, border and, not least, the people of this region.
the eu is called upon to consider its strategic interests, identify new defence solutions and rethink its common security policy (which necessarily includes energy policy).
in this sense, i am in favour of adopting this resolution which reaffirms the need for firm and united positions (with 'one voice') both at eu and nato level, in respect of the international legal framework, and stresses the importance of the union strengthening its energy independence and maritime/border security.
a fund also open to research, to broadband, to energy efficiency, but also to education, to health, to tourism, to infrastructure.
there are also platforms: they can be regional, they can be national, they can be thematic, where third countries can also be present, using the guarantee; and they can contribute to the energy union, they can also contribute, for example, to the digital union.
mr president, the conference of the parties will discuss in paris in december ways of combating and mitigating the effects of climate change.
on a global scale, the barometer for climate change is the arctic ocean.
the resolution stresses the importance of ecosystem-based management and the identification of marine areas of particular ecological and biological significance, as recently recognised and identified under the convention on biological diversity.
the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the cuts in the two community programmes are now €2.8 billion for horizon 2020 (the eu's research and innovation programme) and €2.2 billion for the connecting europe facility (investments to improve europe's transport, energy and digital technology networks).
i believe that it is time for the european union to make private individuals aware of the need to make strategic investments in areas which are essential for improving energy, transport and telecommunications links.
in this regard, and without prejudice to the indispensable structural reforms ensuring the financial and social sustainability of the union states, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), reinforced by the financial contributions of the member states, should be a complement to the competitiveness and investment strategy.
i am voting in favour of this report on economic governance, which aims to underline the importance of the fact that the budgetary rules should be interpreted in such a way as to close the investment gap in the european union and facilitate the implementation of growth-friendly, sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms.
in this regard, it advocates a holistic approach, based on fiscal sustainability, to growth-enhancing structural reforms and investment strengthening, supports the three-pillar strategy (growth-enhancing investment, fiscal consolidation and structural reforms) presented in the 2015 annual growth survey, and welcomes the recently published commission interpretative communication on flexibility.
mr president, commissioner, the concept of sustainable growth is the key to a globalisation that is regulated, environmentally friendly and people-centred.
on the other hand, climate change has been generating catastrophe, famine, desolation, and requires clear, strong responses with concrete results.
in this context, the commitment to a circular economy that creates wealth by incorporating waste management into the value chain is a smart and urgent commitment.
we must set an example in europe, through international agreements, trade and others, and extend this vision to the global economy, so that when we say we want sustainable growth, it is not just rhetoric, it is a strategy for the future, good for people and good for the planet.
overcoming capitalism is not in itself a guarantee that we will have a harmonious and sustainable relationship between man and nature, but it is certainly a necessary condition.
(perhaps some people confuse the circular economy with something closer to a spiral economy...) as regards waste, its reduction and reuse, and its proper management, what is needed is a strong presence and role of the states in this area, ensuring that the public interest and public services prevail over private business.
this is the opposite of what is being done in several countries, such as portugal, where, against the wishes of the people and local authorities, progress has been made towards the privatisation of the waste sector.
we therefore propose, in conjunction with the national authorities, that the european milk observatory introduce sustainability criteria which take account of production costs and the economic and financial viability of farms.
i ask you to help us in this regard, on behalf of the producers of the azores, so that we can maintain the traditional milk production in our region, with all the social and family, environmental, economic and other benefits.
this model of european integration with a single currency and all the budgetary constraints leaves the states with no scope for public investment, and these become dependent on large companies, not only in the area of major transport infrastructure, but also in fundamental areas such as health, energy or education.
more support is also needed, as is the extension of eligible expenditure, in order to create the conditions for its sustainability.
habitats structured by the presence of corals are crucial for the maintenance of marine biodiversity and provide relevant ecological services to fish springs.
for the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources and the conservation of species and habitats in the north-east atlantic, it is urgent to follow up on this regulation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it deserves support because it contains strong demands for a good ttip agreement: safeguarding social and labour rights, protecting the environment, food safety and consumer rights, defending public services, transparency of negotiations and, not least, the end of the private arbitration system, isds.
it is the only way that the values that we have on human rights first, but also on the environment, on labour rights, and which are shared values, even if they have some differences, can prevail in the framework of globalisation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we accept the principle of simplification, but we condemn the liberalization of world trade, that is, the opening up of markets to competition between countries with enormous disparities in the level of economic development, and its consequences: the increase in poverty and inequalities worldwide, the attack on the achievements of workers and the sovereignty of peoples, the appropriation by the large multinationals of natural resources and biodiversity, environmental destruction, the increase in unemployment and the ruin of millions of small farmers.
we reject the liberalization of world trade, that is, the opening up of markets to competition between countries with enormous disparities in the levels of economic development, with all the consequences that this entails: increasing poverty and inequalities worldwide, the attack on the achievements of workers and the sovereignty of peoples, the appropriation by the large multinationals of natural resources and biodiversity, environmental destruction, the increase in unemployment, the ruin of millions of small farmers and the undermining of food sovereignty and food security.
the european union's fisheries agreements with third countries are important for three types of reasons: they allow the exploitation of water resources, thereby contributing to food security; they offer financial compensation to countries that have sovereignty over resources; and finally, because they help to structure the sustainable and responsible use of fisheries in general.
in practice, this amount will be used to partially reduce member states' contributions, where it could and should be used as a boost, not by reducing those contributions, which are already insufficient, in particular for programmes where a lack of payment appropriations has been detected: in the social and environmental areas.
although i regret that this amount is being used to partially reduce member states' contributions, rather than using these appropriations to strengthen programmes more advantageously, i voted in favour because i think that in any case it is better not to waste money.
‒ the mobility of european citizens is an essential requirement for the exercise of their fundamental freedoms, with crossborder multimodal travel planning and ticketing services for long-distance journeys posing a major challenge to the transport sector, benefiting consumers, the wider economy, the environment and the tourism sector.
the aim will not be so much to ensure better and more sustainable mobility for people as to further liberalize and privatise the transport sector and the inevitable monopolistic concentration that always follows.
the economic gains are complemented by the contributions to the sustainability of the european transport sector and the more efficient use of available infrastructure.
like the rapporteur, i consider the multimodal ticketing system to be a very important and integral element of the transport network as such, providing solutions which are attractive to users, sustainable and economically viable, energy efficient and environmentally friendly, avoiding congestion, traffic jams or other traffic problems.
i support the role of the union budget in creating added value through resource sharing and ensuring a high degree of synergies between the european structural and investment funds and the efsi, while enhancing the multiplier effect of the union contribution and supporting the mobilisation of additional sources of public and private funding to finance investments to achieve objectives with a european dimension, in particular in the context of addressing cross-border challenges in areas such as energy, environmental and transport infrastructure.
in this context, i voted in favour of the proposal, hoping that the efsi will indeed provide the necessary impetus and stimulus for innovation, the ultimate guarantee of a more competitive europe in a context of sustainable growth.
the committee also welcomes the fact that the commission has taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, and that the commission has also taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
‒ the report made a first effort to assess the effects of the 'milk package' in the dairy sector, adopted under the co-decision procedure in 2012, with the aim of strengthening the position of milk and milk products producers in the supply chain and preparing the sector for a sustainable and more market-oriented future.
the end of milk production quotas, after 30 years of implementation, presents challenges in terms of market volatility or a crisis situation, and which the milk package considers necessary to prepare the sector for a sustainable future.
we therefore propose, through the european milk observatory in conjunction with the national authorities, the introduction of sustainability criteria which take into account production costs and the economic and financial viability of farms.
i support the zahradil report because it considers that both smes and large companies can provide knowledge, experience, good practices and networks specific to the private sector involving public authorities in third countries, contributing to the implementation of policies for sustainable development.
we are well aware of the disastrous results in portugal and the consequences of the waste of public resources and their transfer to large economic and financial groups.
‒ there are positive experiences of ppps which result from the following elements: better project execution, good quality or value for money, long-term financing of infrastructure construction costs, stimulation of innovation and research, participation of the private sector both in the construction and operation of projects and also in terms of financing, more flexible and qualified management environment, resource benefits for renowned companies and smes and enhanced competitiveness of eu companies for participation in public contracts in third countries.
‒ public-private partnerships (ppps) are important as drivers of economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation, both in the european single market and internationally, playing a strategic role in modernising energy, water, road and digital infrastructure.
they are becoming dependent on large companies not only for major transport infrastructure but also in such fundamental areas as health, energy and education.
other proposals include the inclusion of economic and social criteria to increase support for small and medium-sized agricultural production while preserving the rural environment, and the defence of local marketing and consumption networks that promote social and regional cohesion.
more support is also needed, as is the extension of eligible expenditure to create conditions for sustainability.
we are in favour of promoting traditional diets based on seasonal vegetables and fruits, we are against the limited use of funds by producer organisations, against the closure of farms which lead to the desertification of large areas of land, we are in favour of including criteria of economic and social value for small and medium-sized agricultural production, we are in favour of preserving the rural environment and we are in favour of local marketing and consumption networks which promote social and regional cohesion.
that is why in the resolution we are going to table and in the amendments we are going to table we refuse to allow the debt to continue to be the pretext for imposing austerity measures and we propose renegotiating it, including reducing and restructuring it, so that the debt in the various countries reaches sustainable levels, does not stifle the development possibilities of the countries and is simply payable.
i identify a certain short-sightedness on the part of company management, which is too focused on short-term profitability, even questioning the long-term sustainability of the company itself.
the solution to align company decisions with long-term sustainable management and, at the same time, ensure fiscal transparency is to involve local workers and agents in the strategic decisions of companies, as we have suggested.
the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme is the most important instrument to combat climate change emissions.
it is therefore essential to restore the full performance of this instrument which, due to the economic slowdown and the excess liquidity of allowances that occurred on the market, no longer provided the appropriate final price to limit emissions.
the outcome of the negotiations on this legislative proposal will allow for a more stable and predictable market environment, more environmentally friendly and more investment-friendly in green technologies.
i hope that the european commission, commissioner, will now work towards proposing, before 2020, an innovation fund to promote research and development in low-carbon technologies.
it will also be positive to put 900 million carbon allowances, which have been deferred, directly into the market stabilisation reserve to prevent them from once again causing a fall in their market price.
the fact that we can pass this legislative proposal tomorrow is also a signal to our external partners that the european union continues to take the fight against climate change seriously.
commissioner, we cannot forget the urgent need to reach a legally binding global climate agreement in paris this year.
madam president, i would like to ask a question to mr faria, who said that the carbon market is the main instrument to combat climate change.
i wanted you to give me here examples of places and times where the carbon market has ever worked to promote, lead to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
it says here he stopped giving the price sign: i would like to ask the commissioner to tell me in what period, namely the european union's emissions trading scheme, in what period he provided this price signal to lead to the reduction of carbon emissions.
i think that this instrument is indeed a full access instrument for reducing climate emissions and i do not see what other response could be given here than to continue to fight for this emission of greenhouse gases to be done through this important instrument.
mr president, commissioner, there are questions that the proponents of the carbon market simply cannot answer.
what structural changes have been achieved so far with recourse to market instruments such as emissions trading?
the carbon market has already proven to be inefficient and perverse, has provided fabulous profits to large polluters, has shown itself to be permeable to countless failures and frauds, some of which have damaged the public purse by billions of euros.
my question to mr tsipras, but also to my colleagues in the european parliament, is: can we accept a fair deal with a real opportunity for recovery in greece, a real opportunity to invest, with more fiscal space, but also a clear solution for the debt burden in greece in exchange for clear commitments for reform, ensuring good public administration, tax collection and a sustainable pension system?
it is urgent to repeal the european common position on cuba, an old, outdated position which limits the doors open to us for a constructive dialogue which has an impact not only on relations with cuba but also on the dialogue with latin america and central america, a dialogue so important for the sustainable development of globalisation and the planet.
we must be active partners in cuba's journey towards an inclusive, open democracy that creates the natural environment for free debate and the guarantee of fundamental freedoms.
all this combined with sustainable development and the level of universal access to services that cuba offers is one of the best examples of the european social model.
the only agreement that is good for europe is one that combines reciprocal access to markets and the reduction of barriers with respect for european norms and standards, without jeopardizing the quality of public services, respect for environmental standards, health, social protection, data protection, consumer protection and food safety.
overriding environmental sustainability and the safeguarding of public health, the search for new markets at any cost and enabling the advance of the market on the social functions of the states, destroying what remains of important public services.
i voted in favour of this report because it does not compromise the quality of public services and also insists on respect for environmental standards, health, social protection, data protection, consumer protection and food safety.
globalisation needs rules, but it needs to be safeguarded by workers' rights, public services, environmental rights, cultural diversity, data protection or a public court-based dispute settlement that guarantees equal rights for domestic and foreign investors.
this resolution sets out a set of recommendations from the european parliament to the european commission on the negotiations of the 'transatlantic trade and investment partnership' (ttip) on the various chapters of the mandate: free market access for goods, services and investment, the elimination of non-tariff and regulatory barriers, access to public markets, the need to protect our geographical indications and the liberalisation of the energy market.
the best levels of social, health and environmental protection should be the reference for progress in the talks between the parties, not the lowest common denominator.
this addresses the concerns of many citizens, including respect for high standards of protection of social and labour rights, the environment, food safety and consumer rights; the defence of public services of general interest (such as water, health and education); respect for the privacy of personal data; the protection of european geographical indications; the transparency of negotiations and the end of the controversial private investor-state dispute settlement (isds) system.
from an economic point of view, the conclusion of this agreement could mean the end of our family farming production model, which is considered to be the safest and most sustainable for food production in the world.
‒ i voted in favour of the lange report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) because i believe it is essential that there is a mandate from the european parliament to the european commission that strongly and explicitly translates the values of environmental, labour, human rights and consumer protection into the ttip negotiations.
in addition to updating the legal text of the international agreement to take account of the changes resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, this agreement was signed on 23 november 2001 and extended for a further five years, with a renewable period of five years.
the aim is to approve the continuation and financing of the agreement, which was initially established for a period of five years, renewable by agreement between the parties and after an evaluation during the year preceding its expiry.
it is positive and desirable that cooperation in these areas can be established and deepened with a view to a joint approach to important social and environmental challenges in pursuit of the public interest.
it is part of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre).
the report is designed to approve the continuation and financing of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement concluded between the european community and india in november 2001. the agreement provided for a five-year period, renewable by agreement between the parties and after an evaluation during the year preceding its expiry.
the report advocates the continuation and financing of the scientific and technological cooperation agreement concluded between the european community and india in november 2001. the agreement provided for a five-year period, renewable by agreement between the parties and after an evaluation during the year preceding its expiry.
‒ horizon 2020 the community framework programme for research and innovation is the european community's largest instrument specifically geared to supporting research through the co-financing of research, innovation and demonstration projects, and has the overall objective of contributing to the creation of a knowledge-based and innovation-based economy, the creation of new job opportunities and sustainable economic growth in europe.
in support of horizon 2020 cfp, which aims to ensure industrial leadership in the european union by 2020 and to contribute to the europe 2020 strategy focusing on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, i approve this recommendation on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands associating the faroe islands to horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020).
‒ horizon 2020 is a powerful tool for stimulating scientific research and, indirectly, for boosting the economy, protecting the environment and promoting the values we hold most dear in europe.
‒ the overall objective of this proposal for a revision of the shareholder rights directive is to contribute to the long-term sustainability of eu companies, to create an attractive environment for shareholders and to increase the exercise of cross-border voting rights by increasing the efficiency of the equity investment chain in order to contribute to growth, job creation and competitiveness in the eu.
i voted in favour of this report because this proposal for a revision aims to ensure greater involvement of shareholders in the companies in which they invest and thus contribute to their long-term competitiveness and sustainability.
for this reason, greater shareholder participation in corporate governance is one of the instruments that can contribute to improving both the financial and non-financial performance of companies and that is why i support this proposal to revise directive 2007/36/ec on the exercise of certain rights of shareholders in listed companies, as i believe that this also contributes to their long-term sustainability.
it identifies a certain short-sightedness on the part of company management that is too focused on short-term profitability, even calling into question the long-term sustainability of companies.
the key to aligning company decisions with long-term sustainable management is to involve local workers and agents in the strategic decisions of companies.
‒ the reform of the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and combat climate change by addressing the imbalance between supply and demand for emission allowances, which undermines incentives to invest in green innovation.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the climate change impact of the proposed measures.
i therefore support the belet report, which reflects the commitment reached with member states after three trilogues, providing that if the surplus reaches a certain value, licences are withdrawn from the market and placed in a reserve to avoid imbalances, promoting the need for operators to invest in reducing co2 emissions, a mechanism to start as early as 2019, instead of the proposed date of 2021.
‒ this proposal is yet another demonstration of the outright and blatant failure of the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme (ghg) to achieve its stated objectives.
since its creation in 2005, it has failed to reduce ghg emissions or drive any energy paradigm transition, but on the contrary, it has proven to be ineffective and perverse.
it was clear during the debate that the supporters of the carbon market - the same ones who, having seen its failure, now want to make some amendments to it - have no answers to simple questions, such as the lack of examples of structural changes, significant from an environmental point of view, achieved through market instruments such as emissions trading.
it's not the environment.
‒ the european council conclusions of 23 and 24 october 2014 on a 2030 framework for climate and energy action state that an operational and reformed emissions trading scheme (ets), with a market stabilisation instrument, will be the main european instrument to achieve the union's greenhouse gas emission reduction target.
‒ the commission presented a proposal for a market stabilisation reserve on 22 january 2014, together with a communication on a 2030 framework for climate and energy action.
i would stress that the aim of the commission proposal is to make structural changes to the emissions trading system (ets) in order to address the issue of the surplus of allowances, currently estimated at 2 billion (which have been increasing in the system since 2009 (during phase 2)), and to rectify its shortcomings, in order to achieve its objective of 'promoting the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions under cost-effective and economically efficient conditions' (article 1 of the ets directive).
although the 2020 greenhouse gas emissions target is guaranteed by the global emission limit, i would remind you that the surplus of allowances is undermining the cost-effectiveness of the scheme in the long term.
the surplus is thus undermining the proper functioning of the carbon market and fundamentally the carbon price, thereby reducing the incentive to invest in low-carbon technologies.
the market stabilisation reserve (mrs) is an efficient tool that will stabilise our emissions trading scheme (ets) and thus save the central pillar of europe's sustainability and climate policy.
the market stabilisation reserve is a crucial element in helping to ensure that carbon pricing stimulates innovation in energy efficiency.
this reform puts europe on track to meet its 40% greenhouse gas emission reduction target by 2030 and also sends a strong signal to the climate negotiations to take place in december at cop21 in paris.
‒ the european commission has put forward a legislative proposal to revise the eu emissions trading system (ets), in line with the 2030 climate and energy framework agreed by eu leaders last october.
the proposal aims at a more resilient and forward-looking energy union and climate policy which is, moreover, one of the priorities of the juncker commission.
as part of the contribution to the new global climate agreement, which is due to be adopted in december, this is undeniably the first step towards the goal of reducing domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030. it is also intended to establish a market stabilisation reserve for the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) as part of the 2030 framework for climate and energy policies, given the current imbalance between supply and demand for emission allowances.
we will thus be strengthening the functioning of the internal energy market at european level and ensuring that it operates in an economically efficient way, which is why i voted in favour of this legislative resolution.
‒ since its creation in 2005, the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme (ghges) has failed to reduce emissions in european countries, and there has been no real change in the way energy is produced and spent by industry.
the ets is not an incentive to promote investment in clean energy solutions.
on the contrary, it closes the door to really effective climate policies by discouraging regulations that are seen as interfering with the carbon price.
so there is no investment in clean technologies or low carbon solutions, because there is a carbon market, which is designed to be attractive to industry, and trying to reform this system and equip it with instruments to stabilize it is just a cosmetic, lucrative operation to keep it looking attractive.
‒ this proposal is yet another demonstration of the outright and blatant failure of the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme (ghg ets), which since its inception in 2005 has failed to reduce ghg emissions or drive any energy paradigm transition.
it was clear during the debate that the supporters of the carbon market - the same ones who, having seen its failure, now want to make some amendments to it - have no answers to simple questions, such as the lack of examples of structural changes, significant from an environmental point of view, achieved through market instruments such as emissions trading.
‒ this report deals with the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation.
the conclusion of this agreement with the swiss confederation builds on the european union's previous agreement with euratom and aims to associate the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 - and to regularise the swiss confederation's participation in the activities of the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter).
i would argue that in view of the serious risks of nuclear energy, which have been known for a long time and are recalled in every nuclear accident, as was the case with the most recent one in fukushima, it is necessary to abandon this type of energy.
‒ i have tabled my vote in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community.
‒ i approve this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020, and governing the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities carried out by the fusion energy joint undertaking.
‒ i voted in favour of this draft european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020, and governing the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities carried out by the fusion energy joint undertaking.
‒ this proposal concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of a scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community (euratom) and the swiss confederation associating the latter to horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community complementing horizon 2020 and regulating the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities carried out by the fusion energy joint undertaking.
‒ the horizon 2020 programme and the european atomic energy community research and training programme are important instruments for stimulating scientific research.
‒ the conclusion of this agreement with the swiss confederation builds on the european union's previous agreement with euratom and aims to associate the swiss confederation with horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation - and the research and training programme of the european atomic energy community, which complements horizon 2020. it regulates the participation of the swiss confederation in the activities of the international thermonuclear experimental reactor (iter).
the negotiations were concluded on 24 july 2014. we reaffirm that despite the controversy surrounding this project, we consider it important that energy research can continue to improve and overcome the risks and limitations of the forms of energy currently available, considering the multiplicity of options and giving priority to renewable sources.
such guidelines should enable member states to adopt sustainable economic models.
‒ i agree that the member states and the union should work towards developing an effective and coordinated strategy on employment, aimed at countering the serious effects of unemployment, promoting a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce and labour markets that are responsive to economic, social and environmental developments, with a view to achieving the objectives of full employment and social progress set out in article 3 of the treaty on european union.
‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, which together with the guidelines for economic policies, already adopted in july, constitute the integrated guidelines, which represent the main instrument of the europe 2020 strategy for jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
however, we must continue to work towards them, reiterating the importance of investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility, but also of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, fair wages and pensions and greater attention to inequalities.
at the same time, they should contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to the achievement of the objectives of the european semester of economic policy coordination.
‒ i support the report which argues that decent and quality job creation, business development and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth across the union, together with internal and external solidarity in a secure europe, should be the focus of the priorities for the 2016 budget.
‒ in the face of the challenges of globalisation, inefficient resource management and climate change, building a greener and more environmentally friendly economy is a priority.
there is an increasing need for a serious and coherent policy capable of meeting common challenges and promoting sustainable job creation in all its aspects.
i therefore support mrs lambert's report which, in a holistic way, addresses investment in sustainable job creation, calling for the full use of community funds to this end and not forgetting in particular small and mediumsized enterprises.
‒ the report presents positive concepts, proposals and perspectives - in the direction of economic revitalization, training, promotion of gender equality and sustainable development practices.
the report also argues that jobs created in the green economy must be of high quality and sustainable, and describes the need for an eu-wide industrial strategy to develop the renewable energy sector.
other very important aspects are strengthening the participation of workers in the management of the transition, ensuring that a shift to environmental taxation should not have disproportionate impacts on the lowest earners.
the insufficiency of the measures in force to achieve the objectives of protecting biodiversity, reducing the use of fossil fuels, combating climate change and preventing its impact on human health and the quality of the environment has given rise to the need to develop a comprehensive strategy in this area, with a significant impact on job creation.
it is imperative to redirect europe's investment in renewable energy, thus helping to maintain its economic and industrial competitiveness and progressively reduce its energy dependence.
‒ i agree with the 2015 report of the european environment agency which stresses the inadequacy of the measures in force to achieve the objectives of protecting biodiversity, reducing the use of fossil fuels, combating climate change and preventing its impact on human health and the environment.
i stress that without a coherent policy response to address these common challenges, a significant part of the sustainable job creation potential of the transition to an inclusive green economy may be missed.
i am voting in favour of this own-initiative report which calls for an ambitious and coherent policy on the part of the european union in the fields of renewable energy, forestry management, sustainable agriculture and soil protection.
only in this way will we be able to create the 20 million jobs in the green economy by 2020.
in the report, the commission proposes to increase the number of jobs created by the green economy by the year 2020. according to the ilo, green jobs are decent jobs that reduce energy and raw material consumption, limit greenhouse gas emissions, minimise waste and pollution, and protect and restore ecosystems, where the involvement of the workforce is essential to achieve the transition to a green economy.
in this regard, member states should make more effective use of the wide range of european funds and financial instruments available to support the creation of green and sustainable jobs, and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises.
indeed, inefficient use of resources, unsustainable pressure on the environment and climate change, as well as social exclusion and inequalities pose challenges to long-term economic growth.
as such, a green growth model - low carbon, climate resilient and resource efficient - is needed.
after hundreds of years in which the basis of employment at sea was fishing and transport, there is now room for alternative energy, biotechnology and marine tourism.
‒ the report states that the green economy is set against a backdrop of a number of challenges highlighted by the commission: inefficient use of resources, unsustainable pressure on the environment, climate change, social exclusion and inequalities... recognises the need to mainstream the concept of the green economy, reflected in a need for a coherent and comprehensive policy framework that offers a predictable atmosphere for training and investment.
we share many of the same ideas, but we think that to base the whole economy on renewable energy is a somewhat naive approach and to some extent counterproductive, in that it may divert attention from the real problem, which is a mismatch between the current production capacity of the eu and the solvent purchasing power of consumers.
‒ i voted in favour of the lambert report on the 'green jobs initiative: harnessing the job creation potential of the green economy' because i believe that a smart investment in the green economy will create wealth and quality jobs in a sustainable way.
sustainable consumption and production in the context of a green economy will allow for multiplier effects on the economy, which will enable new productive opportunities and open up new frontiers for research and innovation.
combined with the possibilities offered by information and communication technologies, the new industrialisation will have to have a strong focus on environmental sustainability.
‒ the report presents concepts, proposals and perspectives which we consider positive - in terms of economic revitalisation, training, the promotion of equality between men and women and sustainable development practices.
taxation can be a viable and sustainable source of revenue in developing countries, with the advantage of stability compared to traditional development financing mechanisms.
the report considers that taxation is a sustainable and reliable source of revenue in developing countries, with the advantage of stability compared to traditional mechanisms for financing development.
the report also calls for the eu to support the development of the eu's energy sector, and calls for the eu to support the development of the energy sector in the eu.
- i voted in favour because it is undeniable that tax havens and tax evasion have been responsible for capital flight that should have been taxed in other countries and generators of harmful practices of tax competition that have greatly undermined a more equitable and sustainable development.
the report considers that taxation is a sustainable and reliable source of revenue in developing countries, with the advantage of stability compared to traditional mechanisms for financing development.
the report also calls for the eu to support the development of the eu's energy sector, and calls for the eu to support the development of the energy sector in the eu.
this justifies a set of ambitious proposals that will lead the commission to maintain the eu's leadership in matters relating to waste management, energy efficiency and green growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the waste management of waste.
mandatory targets are called for for the reduction of waste production by 2025 by introducing mandatory separate collection of bio-waste by 2020; recycling and preparation for re-use targets that should reach at least 70% of municipal solid waste and 80% of packaging waste by 2030. it also calls for incineration to be strictly limited by 2020 for non-recyclable and non-biodegradable waste and for a binding, gradual reduction of all landfill waste in three stages (2020, 2025, 2030).
the report highlights legitimate environmental concerns, including product durability, reuse and recycling, among other important aspects.
on the contrary, it abuses the market view, rather than holding the state and public policies accountable, which would be especially important in areas as sensitive as waste which is being discussed here.
rethinking resource sustainability through a circular economy, which prioritizes reuse, re-processing and recycling, is the way forward.
i therefore believe that there must be a strong balance between the sustainable reuse of resources and the financial costs that companies must bear, so that the idea in question here does not seriously undermine the economic and financial sustainability of companies over the coming years.
‒ the global economy uses the equivalent of 1.5 times the planet's resources to achieve its total output and absorb waste.
setting a binding waste reduction target, revising european legislation on green concessions and taking measures to decouple growth from the use of natural resources are some of the recommendations made in this report on the transition to a circular economy.
‒ in july 2014, the commission presented a communication entitled 'towards a circular economy: an agenda to end waste in europe' aimed at designing and innovating for a circular economy, creating a policy framework to support resource efficiency and defining a specific strategic framework to enable smes to turn environmental challenges into environmentally sustainable business opportunities.
moving towards a more circular economy is essential to delivering on the europe 2020 strategy on resource efficiency, promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
this system will create added value for products and eliminate waste.
in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur's position on the need to adopt legislative measures on waste by the end of 2015, proposing ambitious resource efficiency targets and reliable indicators.
strengthening the circular economy in europe is a contribution to improving the global environment.
every year, as a consequence of the still-prevailing linear economy, huge amounts of waste enter the seas, degrade and turn into even more dangerous pollutants, including so-called microplastics.
on the other hand, high concentrations of carbon in the atmosphere acidify the oceans to levels that destroy the efficiency of ecosystems.
‒ the legislative proposal on waste was controversially withdrawn by the commission a couple of months later and was strongly criticised by the european parliament, eu environment ministers and civil society.
the report calls for significant improvements compared to the withdrawn commission proposal, as the commission did not make any proposal on binding reduction targets, calling for mandatory targets for the reduction of waste production by 2025. the commission is urged to present a new, more ambitious proposal by the end of 2015 reflecting waste prevention measures, binding waste reduction targets for municipal, industrial and commercial waste to be achieved by 2025, and calls for the application of the 'pay as you throw' principle for waste disposal to be combined with mandatory separate collection systems for paper, metal, plastic and glass, introducing the mandatory separate collection of biobased waste by 2020.
‒ i voted in favour of the pietikäinen report on resource efficiency: transition to a circular economy because i believe that the commitment to a circular economy, which allows for wealth creation by incorporating waste management into the value chain, is a smart and urgent commitment to the environmental, economic and social challenges that societies are facing at the same time.
unregulated globalization leads to increased inequalities and our environmental footprint.
the circular economy is an integrated and holistic approach to the challenges of globalisation, combining economic competitiveness and environmental sustainability, and enabling economic growth for current generations without compromising the development of future generations.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the environment.
this is the opposite of what is being done in several countries, such as portugal, where, against the wishes of the people and local authorities, progress has been made towards the privatisation of the waste sector.
this is not unconnected with the intention of imposing the domination of imperialism in the middle east, crushing the yemeni sovereign claim and ensuring control of yemen's geostrategic position on the routes for the transport of energy raw materials.
this is not unconnected with the intention of imposing the domination of imperialism in the middle east, crushing the yemeni sovereign claim and ensuring control of yemen's geostrategic position on the routes for the transport of energy raw materials.
the report calls for the financial strengthening of an instrument which promotes the militarization and securitization of borders through the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy; which encourages the submission of neighbouring countries to the eu's neoliberal policies with a view to imposing political and economic reforms; which privileges the creation of free trade zones, which attacks human rights while hypocritically defending them and presents the union as an example in their implementation and defence; which promotes an eu foreign policy which we do not recognise; which promotes the discriminatory and elitist stance of its migration policy by strengthening instruments such as frontex and europol; which is hostile, in particular to russia, on the basis of the energy policies which are in progress.
the union has provided assistance and support for structural reforms in areas as diverse as economic and human development, conflict and natural disaster prevention, regional and infrastructure development, environment and trade policy, smes, migration, security and energy.
a policy that privileges the creation of free trade areas, that attacks human rights while hypocritically defending them and presenting the european union as an example in their implementation and defence; that promotes an eu foreign policy that we do not recognise; that promotes the discriminatory and elitist stance of its migration policy by reinforcing instruments such as frontex and europol; that is hostile, in particular to russia, on the basis of the energy policies that are in progress.
i welcome the results achieved by the fund so far, taking into account the particular and difficult international environment of the present time.
in this atmosphere of tension and conflict, municipal and local elections were held on 29 june, which according to several international organisations, including the eu election observation mission, were neither free nor credible, and were surrounded by a climate of fear and intimidation.
the resolution therefore calls for the presidential elections scheduled for 15 july to be postponed until a climate conducive to the holding of democratic and free elections has been re-established and the various electoral observation missions have returned.
our support for this report against the cloning of domestic animals is therefore also a wake-up call in defence of small and medium-sized family farming, in defence of a production model based on biodiversity and respect for social and environmental standards.
‒ i am in favour of a total ban on trade in seal products, except in the two situations presented: a) ci exception - products derived from seals hunted by inuit or other indigenous communities; b) gmr exception - products of hunting carried out for the sole purpose of ensuring the sustainable management of small-scale and non-profit-making marine resources.
as regards the second exception, given the difficulty of distinguishing between commercial hunting and gmr hunting, i argue that it can only be carried out in very specific circumstances, allowing this exception for the management of marine resources to fulfil its objective of promoting the protection of natural biodiversity.
the regulation provided for a total ban on trade, with the exception of products derived from seals hunted by inuit or other indigenous communities (ci exception) and products from hunting for the sole purpose of ensuring the sustainable management of small-scale and non-profit-making marine resources (gmr exception).
the rapporteur agreed to the abolition of the existing exception to the possibility of importing products derived from seals hunted for the sole purpose of ensuring the sustainable management of marine resources, on a non-profit-making basis and not for commercial reasons.
the rapporteur agreed to the abolition of the existing exception to the possibility of importing products derived from seals hunted for the sole purpose of ensuring the sustainable management of marine resources, on a non-profit-making basis and not for commercial reasons.
we need to think about a sustainable approach to farming and not leave our food to the interests of multinationals and big industry.
the use of clones for agricultural purposes not only poses a threat to food security and animal health and welfare, but will also have incalculable consequences for the environment and biodiversity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in defence of a production model based on biodiversity and respect for social and environmental standards.
the only one capable of ensuring a balanced management of our territory, the sustainability of our rural world and a healthy food production for our people.
our support for this report is therefore also a wake-up call in defence of small and medium-sized family farming, in defence of a production model based on biodiversity and respect for social and environmental standards.
it also omits the role of the european union in the destruction of countries such as libya, syria and iraq, where the aim is to secure control of raw materials and energy sources.
the important thing is to create a favourable investment climate for our companies and to foster the entrepreneurial spirit throughout the eu.
we cannot continue to waste the economic potential of this important business sector.
finally, i welcome the europe 2020 strategy and its flagship initiatives in this area, which promote the spirit of initiative and entrepreneurship of european citizens, equipping them with skills and qualifications that can boost competitiveness and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ the concept of the blue economy encompasses a wide spectrum of economic sectors linked to the seas, from traditional ones such as fishing and transport to emerging ones such as tourism or the exploitation of energy resources.
i believe that the development of the blue economy should focus on sustainable activities, which can give a strong boost to economic growth and development and job creation.
particular emphasis will be placed on the potential of exploiting marine resources to develop sustainable renewable energy resources, which can make a significant contribution to the european union's energy security strategy by reducing dependence on member states.
i support the need to develop a strategic blue economy planning, direct funding and action plan to boost the sector by 2020. however, the restoration and maintenance of ecosystems, biodiversity, resilience and productivity of seas and oceans should always be taken into account.
‒ the report advocates a more comprehensive approach to the challenges of innovation and job creation in the diverse set of sectors that make up the blue economy, such as fisheries, tourism, maritime transport, shipbuilding and energy resources.
the concept of 'blue economy' covers a wide range of sectors of economic activity linked to the seas and oceans, including traditional and emerging sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland waterway transport, ports and logistics, tourism and leisure and cruise shipping, shipbuilding and repair, maritime works and coastal defence, offshore mineral exploration and exploitation, offshore energy exploration and exploitation and biotechnology, among others.
i agree that many of the major social challenges facing humanity today can be met by better knowledge of the marine environment and a better capacity to use, manage and conserve the resources of our seas, oceans and coastal areas.
‒ the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of sectors of economic activity linked to the seas and oceans, including traditional or established sectors and emerging sectors such as: fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland waterway transport, ports and logistics, tourism and leisure and cruise shipping, shipbuilding and repair, maritime works and coastal defence, exploration and exploitation of mineral resources (offshore), exploration and exploitation of wind energy and marine resources (offshore) and biotechnology, among others.
the european parliament adopted a report on the marine economy today, arguing that the sustainable exploitation of the marine environment can contribute to increasing wealth and job creation in the european union.
i believe it is important to develop a strategic plan for the activities of the blue economy at european level, through an action plan and direct funding to boost this new form of sustainable growth, which can create 7 million jobs.
i want to affirm the oceans as a vector of sustainable development, and this requires supporting universities, technology centres and smes, as well as start-ups that are developing activities related to the sea and that contribute to the generation of wealth.
‒ this report makes a set of recommendations with a view to realising the potential of the blue economy for sustainable growth, development and job creation, especially in coastal and outermost regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this is the only way for the blue economy to achieve the europe 2020 objectives in the long term through the sustainable growth of the marine and maritime sectors, recognising the importance of seas and oceans as drivers of the european economy with great potential for innovation and growth.
‒ the blue economy covers a wide range of sectors of economic activity linked to the seas and oceans, including traditional or established sectors and emerging sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland waterway transport, ports and logistics, tourism and leisure and cruise shipping, shipbuilding and repair, maritime works and coastal defence, mineral exploration and exploitation, exploration and exploitation of wind and marine energy resources and biotechnology, among others.
i am in favour of investment and use of the sea, as long as it is framed by sound knowledge and within the limits of environmental sustainability.
‒ the concept of the blue economy covers a wide range of sectors of economic activity linked to the seas and oceans, including traditional or established sectors and emerging sectors such as: fisheries, aquaculture, maritime and inland waterway transport, ports and logistics, tourism and leisure and cruise shipping, shipbuilding and repair, maritime works and coastal defence, exploration and exploitation of mineral resources (offshore), exploration and exploitation of wind energy and marine resources (offshore) and biotechnology, among others.
‒ culture and cultural heritage are both shared resources and common goods and values, which cannot be used exclusively, and their full potential for sustainable human, social and economic development is yet to be fully recognised and properly exploited, both in eu strategies and in the post-2015 united nations development goals.
‒ culture and cultural heritage are both shared resources and common goods and values, which cannot be used exclusively, and their full potential for sustainable human, social and economic development is yet to be fully recognised and properly exploited, both in eu strategies and in the post-2015 united nations development goals.
it is very important to use the available resources to support, enhance and promote cultural heritage on the basis of an integrated approach, taking into account the cultural, economic, social, historical, educational, environmental and scientific components.
the enhancement of european cultural and linguistic diversity, the promotion of european cultural heritage and the enhancement of the competitiveness of cultural areas aim to foster sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ beyond its intrinsic value, cultural heritage can be a source of employment and income, which is crucial in the current economic climate.
we need a sustainable development plan for this resource once and for all.
‒ at the level of the european institutions, policies directed at cultural heritage are the responsibility of several directorates-general of the european commission and, consequently, it would be extremely advantageous to have an integrated approach to cultural heritage (understood as a complex reality composed of several components: cultural, economic, social, historical, educational, environmental and scientific) as well as a strengthening of cooperation and coordination in this area.
we support some proposals, such as the creation of a single eu portal dedicated to cultural heritage, which would bring together information on all eu funding programmes geared to cultural heritage, the increase of the €5 million ceiling for investment projects in small-scale infrastructure, the creation of a policy framework for the historic-patrimonial real estate environment, which would contain a regulatory framework for monuments and archaeological and historic landscapes.
i cannot help but point out that almost two million people in several member states are concerned about water supply and sanitation services, about the loss of public ownership, actual or potential, of water services, because these services are in the public interest and are intended to ensure that all the population has access to high quality water at socially acceptable prices and to minimise the negative environmental impacts of waste water.
the european commission presented its official response on 17 march 2014, proposing, inter alia, to: strengthen the implementation of water quality legislation, building on the commitments made in the 7th environment action programme and the water plan; launch an eu-wide public consultation on the drinking water directive with a view to improving access to quality water; stimulate innovative approaches to development assistance in this sector; promote the sharing of good practices among member states and defend universal access to safe drinking water and sanitation as a priority area for future sustainable development goals.
in particular, taking into account that 3.5 million people die each year worldwide from water-borne diseases, that 748 million people lack sustainable access to safe drinking water and that one third of the world's population lacks basic sanitation, this citizens' initiative is of particular importance.
‒ i voted in favour of the follow-up report to the european citizens' initiative right2water, as i believe that water is essential for sustainable development, an effective means of achieving the fundamental objectives of poverty eradication and the promotion of social equality, public health, food security and economic growth.
the european citizens' initiative provided an excellent opportunity to reinforce the human right to water and sanitation as basic goods for life, and to call for better management of existing water resources, which are essential for the sustainable development of the planet.
what is required for the sustainability of the social security reform is the strengthening of public social security systems, which must be solidarity-based and universal, which means that those who have more and earn more have to contribute more to them and that unemployment and precarious jobs, factors that decapitalize social security systems, must be combated and eliminated.
the visionary united nations international law of the sea was agreed upon, based on such relevant values as the precautionary principle, peaceful development, the sharing of resources, the protection of biodiversity, sustainable development, the ecosystem vision, the idea of an ocean.
it should be noted that the international law of the sea requires that countries which do not use their renewable marine resources must make them available to third countries.
but fisheries agreements cannot be a backdoor to recover the ecological footprint we have left behind.
they must be ambassadors for sustainable development cooperation and good fishing practices.
unlike other fleets, european fleets today are subject to the constraints of legal frameworks based on environmental responsibility, based on the best scientific knowledge and an ecosystem approach.
they address issues such as the identification of living sources, respect for workers' rights, incentives for local fishing industries and respect for environmental constraints.
i would stress its compliance with the legal norms and the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy, both from the environmental and the socioeconomic point of view, thus providing a framework for partnership for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde.
the european union should use these agreements not only on the economic side but also to strengthen cooperation instruments and promote the development of these countries in the social and environmental fields.
they should also implement programmes to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and the sustainable and responsible exploitation and monitoring of local resources.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are preparing to renew the fisheries partnership agreement with the republic of cape verde, the objectives of which are, among other things, the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the fight against illegal fishing, but we have found that the union's counterparts to cape verde are all but insufficient to pursue these objectives.
there is an urgent need to better manage european fisheries resources, sorry, including that all costs are exploited within sustainable levels.
unfortunately, the european union still faces short-term political commitments and a lack of data transparency, which jeopardises the sustainable benefit and security of future generations.
fishing within sustainable limits is above all a matter of economic good sense.
support for the sustainable development of third countries with which we have agreements is also economically sound, socially sound, and cooperatively sound.
i therefore ask the european commission to present a strategy with clear actions for the connectivity of islands with europe, taking particular account of the particularities of island and outermost regions in the implementation of measures such as the global mrv system for greenhouse gas emissions.
the year 2016 will also be full of economic challenges, with the key being to deepen the economic and monetary union, move towards the digital single market and complete the energy union.
the challenge of global competitiveness, the challenge of sustainability and energy sovereignty, the challenge of leadership in combating climate change, the challenge of preserving its democratic, open and tolerant identity, the technological, economic and social challenge posed by the digital society, the challenge of poverty, asymmetries and inequalities.
the protocol aims to provide fishing opportunities for eu vessels in guinea-bissau waters, within the limits of the available surplus, and to strengthen cooperation between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau in order to establish a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the guinea-bissau fishing zone.
‒ the main objective of the protocol is to provide fishing opportunities for european union vessels in guinea-bissau waters, within the limits of the available surplus, and to strengthen cooperation between the eu and guinea-bissau, thereby creating a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the exclusive economic zone of guinea-bissau.
it is therefore imperative that the agreement promotes the effective sustainable development of the guinean fisheries sector and related industries and activities, increasing the added value that is left in the country as a result of the exploitation of its natural resources.
‒ the general objective of this protocol is to foster cooperation between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau in the fisheries sector, which creates a partnership framework within which a sustainable fisheries policy is developed and, at the same time, the exploitation of sustainable resources in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of guinea-bissau.
‒ the general objective of the protocol is to enhance cooperation between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau in the fisheries sector, in the interest of both parties, by creating a partnership framework within which a sustainable fisheries policy is developed and, at the same time, sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of guinea-bissau.
‒ i believe that future agreements should promote a more effective and sustainable development of the guinean fisheries sector and related industries and activities, in particular small-scale fishing, which contribute significantly to food security and local livelihoods.
‒ the main objective of the protocol is to provide fishing opportunities for european union vessels in guinea-bissau waters, within the limits of the available surplus, and to strengthen cooperation between the eu and guinea-bissau, thereby creating a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the exclusive economic zone of guinea-bissau.
it is therefore imperative that the agreement promotes the effective sustainable development of the guinean fisheries sector and related industries and activities, increasing the added value that is left in the country as a result of the exploitation of its natural resources.
the protocol is valid for four years and has been provisionally applied since 23 november 2014. i support this recommendation on the conclusion of the fisheries protocol with cape verde, because with this protocol we are strengthening cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde by establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy.
‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of cape verde, on the understanding that it contributes to strengthening cooperation between the parties, safeguarding their mutual interests and creating a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde.
‒ this memorandum of understanding aims above all to strengthen cooperation between the eu and the republic of cape verde by establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the republic of cape verde's fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
‒ this protocol aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde by creating a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of resources in the fishing zone of the republic of cape verde, in the interests of both parties.
i support this report because the fisheries protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde is in line with the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy, both from an environmental and a socioeconomic point of view.
the report also stresses the need for a win-win approach and the need for sustainable resource management.
‒ the general objective of the protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde by contributing to the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of resources in the republic of cape verde's fishing zone.
i also believe that the sustainability measures of the new common fisheries policy (cfp) must be safeguarded, both from an environmental and a socioeconomic point of view.
‒ the new fisheries protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde is intended to strengthen cooperation between the parties, laying the foundations for the development of a sustainable and responsible fisheries policy in cape verde, both from an environmental and socioeconomic point of view.
‒ as the report voted on today underlines, i welcome the fact that this new fisheries protocol between the european union and the republic of cape verde is being adopted in line with the sustainability measures provided for in the new common fisheries policy, both from an environmental and socio-economic point of view.
‒ the aim of this protocol is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and madagascar by establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in madagascar's fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
i believe that the strengthening of cooperation between the european union and the republic of madagascar through the creation of a partnership framework will make it possible to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and the rational exploitation of fishery resources in the interests of both parties, since it specifies the target species, the expected value of the fish, the amounts to be invested and the overall expected return.
this protocol will have environmental concerns, including the cessation of fishing in the event of shark overfishing.
in our view, a fair agreement should necessarily take into account the reduction of the gap between 'rich and poor countries', should guarantee and create decent jobs with rights, should safeguard natural resources and meet environmental protection objectives, as well as respect cultural diversity.
a fair agreement must necessarily take into account the reduction of the gap between 'rich and poor countries', guarantee and create decent jobs with rights, safeguard natural resources and meet environmental protection objectives, and respect cultural diversity.
‒ at the 9th wto ministerial conference in december 2013, the 160 wto members concluded negotiations on the trade facilitation agreement, which is an important milestone as it is the first multilateral agreement since the establishment of the wto that sets a model for customs modernisation among the 161 wto members, providing benefits to developing countries and creating a more favourable environment for businesses, in particular smes.
the benefits to developing countries of implementing this agreement, as it will help create a more favourable environment for business, in particular for smes, are clear and, if fully implemented, should reduce uncertainty about market entry conditions and trade costs by between 12.5% and 17.5%.
its implementation will lead to the harmonisation and simplification of trade-related procedures, in particular in developing countries, through special and differentiated treatment, and will also create a more favourable environment for enterprises, especially smes, to access new markets and to strengthen their competitiveness.
in our view, a fair agreement should necessarily take into account the reduction of the gap between 'rich and poor countries', should guarantee and create decent jobs with rights, should safeguard natural resources and meet environmental protection objectives, as well as respect cultural diversity.
a fair agreement must necessarily take into account the reduction of the gap between 'rich and poor countries', guarantee and create decent jobs with rights, safeguard natural resources and meet environmental protection objectives, and respect cultural diversity.
the urban agenda should promote the development of governance solutions that can best meet the challenges and objectives of sustainable, economically and socially inclusive development of europe's cities and functional urban areas.
however, they are faced with less positive factors such as population ageing and decline, pollution, traffic congestion or social exclusion.
in this sense, european policies play a crucial role for sustainable economic and social development.
i agree that the so-called 'european urban agenda' should, in order to be effective, adopt a shared conceptual model, which is regularly updated, and a thematic centralisation on a limited number of challenges within the wider context of the europe 2020 strategy objectives of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
i believe that european union policies should support cities and their metropolitan areas, also known as functional urban areas, and enable them to demonstrate their key role as catalysts for economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the aim is to ensure coherence in environmental, employment, transport and energy policies, which have an impact on urban areas.
‒ i recognise the importance of a european urban agenda for sustainable, integrated and socially inclusive development.
the creation of an eu-wide urban agenda should help to improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of development policies for cities and the regions where they are located - sometimes rural areas with problems of desertification and depopulation, and is also a vehicle for promoting overall sustainability and development aid policies.
it should also be ambitious and integrate european societal challenges of co2 reduction, adaptation to climate change and inclusion or demographic change.
‒ cohesion policy is the european union's main instrument for reducing economic, social and territorial disparities between european regions, fostering their competitiveness, responding to climate change and energy dependence, and at the same time contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
the principles of competitiveness, sustainability and regulatory reliability should therefore be strengthened and proactively supported in order to promote jobs and growth in europe.
only then will we stimulate job creation, increase productivity and contribute to the union's climate and energy objectives.
i agree that cohesion policy is the european union's main instrument for reducing economic, social and territorial disparities between european regions, promoting their competitiveness, responding to climate change and energy dependence, and at the same time contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
the key objectives of cohesion investment for the period 2014-2020 - energy efficiency, employment and smes - are also highlighted in the report and, when complemented by the investment plan for europe, will contribute positively to achieving the europe 2020 strategy objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth across the eu.
‒ the initiatives launched in the framework of the european year 2012 will be monitored and followed up, as the sustainability of the results is of the utmost importance.
i agree with the rapporteur that a transport policy for the 21st century must be based on sustainable mobility supported by policy instruments which enable it to make the transition to less polluting and more energy-efficient means of transport effectively, which today does not result in a set of isolated and selected acts but in an approach of interaction of infrastructure, vehicles, information technologies, rules and behaviour.
special attention should be paid to unfair external competition which does not respect european social, labour and environmental standards and which causes, to a certain extent, disruption in the internal market.
‒ a simple reading of the ten targets set out in the white paper, which support the overall vision of achieving a competitive and resource-efficient transport system (reference frameworks for achieving the 60% ghg emissions reduction target), shows that while work has already started, the main efforts needed to transform the eu's transport system still need to be made.
at the same time, the proposals aim to dramatically reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and to reduce carbon emissions from transport by 60% by 2050. many of these tasks are still to be achieved.
only then will we have sustainable and healthy growth in economies.
the report lists the challenges, organising them around the following themes: competition in international aviation, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, balancing modes of transport and the single european transport area.
once identified, the challenges will be taken into account in the development of a plan for a transport system that is more efficient, sustainable, competitive, accessible, user-friendly and beneficial to european citizens.
but i also do not forget how important it is that we overcome the barriers that persist in relation to dependence on oil and other energy resources derived from fossil fuels.
the proposals set challenging targets to dramatically reduce europe's dependence on fossil fuels and to reduce carbon emissions in the transport sector by 60% by 2050. making the complex transport sector more efficient, cleaner, safer and more reliable will not be possible with only a small number of specific interventions at european level, and will therefore need to be combined with actions at national, regional and local level.
i support the rapporteur's position on the priority to be given to energy-efficient sustainable modes of transport and the creation of a single european transport area capable of being strong and competitive on the world stage, and i therefore voted in favour.
‒ following up on the 2011 white paper on transport, the report proposes a set of measures that can boost the transport sector by promoting better multimodal connectivity, better infrastructure, technological development, digitisation and seamless communications, environmental sustainability of the sector, including co2eq emissions levels, etc.
the report, following up on the white paper, advocates a set of measures that can boost the transport sector, expressing the intention to promote: better multimodal links; better infrastructures; technological development, digitisation and communications without interference; environmental sustainability of the sector, in particular co2eq emissions levels; support for the development of 'light' and impact-free mobility; greater relationship with passengers and defence of their rights, etc.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ the eu will face important challenges in the short term, such as economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and especially job creation, with particular regard to the most vulnerable groups, such as young people, women, the elderly, the long-term unemployed, people with disabilities, migrants, among others.
i agree that the economic and financial crisis must be seen as an opportunity to move towards a more sustainable economic model for the eu.
i argue that the social entrepreneurship model often appeals to young people, giving them an opportunity to find innovative answers to today's economic, social and environmental challenges.
the report, which i support with my vote, calls on the member states to promote an entrepreneurial culture and the cooperative and social entrepreneurship model in education and training programmes - a promotion that seeks to lay the foundations for more sustainable economic growth.
ambitious labour market economic and social policies are therefore needed, alongside those already taken by the eu and member states, which foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and generate quality jobs and jobs.
‒ ambitious economic and social policies and labour market reforms are needed to foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as well as to create more jobs and generate quality and sustainable jobs.
there is also a need for sustainable social protection systems that include upgrading the skills of the unemployed, promoting the employability of people with no or very little qualifications, as well as incentives and job opportunities.
i argue that economic and social policies and labour market reforms are urgently needed to foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as well as to create more quality and sustainable jobs.
i stress the need for sustainable social protection systems, including updating the skills of the unemployed, promoting the employability of people with no or low qualifications, and providing incentives and job opportunities.
‒ according to these reports, the main areas in which member states were subject to infringement procedures for transposition in 2012 were transport, health and consumer protection, environmental protection and internal market and service issues, while in 2013 the most problematic areas were environment, health and consumer protection, internal market and services, and transport.
in this respect, and while the decrease in the number of pending infringement cases is welcome, more efforts are needed and the commission and the member states should think of new ways to improve the transposition and enforcement of eu law in order to address the remaining problems, in particular in the area of justice, the environment and health.
the degradation of nature and the alteration of a number of important natural balances, including climate, as well as poverty, social exclusion, unemployment and economic recession and ruin, are various dimensions in which the deep crisis of capitalism as the dominant mode of economic and social organization on a global scale is expressed.
there is no possible sustainability within the framework of an inherently unjust, unequal, oppressive and predatory system of nature and its resources.
2015 will go down in history as the year in which the 17 sustainable development goals were set at a un summit in new york (usa) from 25 to 27 september.
this agenda, the result of the joint work of governments and citizens around the world to create a new global model to end poverty, promote prosperity and well-being for all, protect the environment and combat climate change, is now confronted with an outdated economic system that has become part of the problem rather than the solution.
the energy union and the digital union are the key economic and political drivers for the european union to improve its geopolitical positioning, increase the competitiveness of the economy, strengthen territorial cohesion and contribute to a more people-centred and planet-friendly globalisation.
the european commission's summer package on the energy union sets out the right foundations for the success of the agenda, including reform of the emissions trading market, the revision of the efficiency labelling system, the provision of self-production facilities to consumers and the re-design of the single energy market.
in this area, the european council's position on the governance of the energy union provides for a model of concerted planning, initiated by member states in the framework of action plans with quantified targets and subject to evaluation and monitoring by the european commission.
the energy union, like the digital union, cannot expect the european union to agree on migration, because they are themselves part of the solution to this central issue.
it is urgent to intervene on the markets to sustain the price collapse, but it is equally urgent to start working now on a complete overhaul of the whole of the common agricultural policy, in defence of our traditional model, which is the only one capable of guaranteeing sustainable and safe agriculture.
i believe that the next work programme should continue to address the emerging challenges facing europe, namely growth and jobs, the implementation of the digital single market strategy, energy independence and climate change, and a genuine european agenda on migration flows.
i welcome the adoption of the european fund for strategic investments, and look forward to its rapid implementation in concrete investment projects for a rapid and sustainable recovery, as well as the objective of better regulation.
the commission should therefore take the 10 strategic priorities as its top priority, thus giving a new impetus to jobs, growth and investment, fighting tax fraud and evasion, creating a connected and inclusive digital single market, making the union more energy resilient and with a visionary climate change policy.
‒ this resolution contains parliament's recommendations with a view to preparing the commission work programme for 2016. parliament called on the commission to present an ambitious work programme to meet the challenges of climate change, energy independence, the transition to a digital society, respect for democratic values and fundamental rights, job creation, growth and investment.
other priorities include the call for the removal of obstacles to the single market, the completion of the digital single market and the internal energy market, the development of a capital markets union, the strengthening of measures to combat fraud and tax evasion, the adoption of a comprehensive approach to migration and asylum and the presentation of a proposal for the next phase of the europe 2020 strategy, as well as the action plan to be adopted for the deepening of emu.
‒ by acting as a bridge between the left and the right represented in the ep, the socialist party played a key role in the adoption of this resolution on what should be the commission's priorities for 2016. in order to overcome the various crises facing europe, a number of concrete proposals were put forward: a total rejection of any attempt to limit the provisions of the schengen agreement and the adoption of a more efficient european asylum and migration policy, including a system of urgent relocation; a european policy focusing on social investment and combating inequalities, poverty and unemployment through access to quality public services; an ambitious strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth through better implementation of the europe 2020 strategy; the continuation of the reform of the economic and monetary union to reduce economic and social disparities in the countries that make up the euro area.
the 100% cofinancing amounts, the prefinancing rates correspond to about 2 billion euros, require that these amounts be used for projects that are sustainable.
we want intelligent solidarity, which contributes to greece's growth, which contributes to the strengthening of greece's competitiveness, which brings more jobs, and therefore these funds, in addition to social cohesion, in addition to economic cohesion, must also bring greater wealth to the european union, greater wealth to greece, and we hope, we are convinced, that greece, the greek authorities, have here an opportunity that they cannot waste.
i therefore agree that the new rules could promote innovation in traditional production processes and the creation of new companies in the traditional products sector, and also contribute to the sustainability of jobs.
it could also boost tourism, ensuring the safeguarding and sustainability of jobs in areas where employment is scarce.
the 100% cofinancing amounts, the prefinancing rates correspond to about 2 billion euros, require that these amounts be used for projects that are sustainable.
‒ having been hit by the consequences of the financial crisis in a unique way, greece is now facing liquidity problems and a lack of public funds available for the investments needed to foster a sustainable economic recovery, and therefore lacks additional pre-financing for the operational programmes of the cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. this is an exceptional situation requiring exceptional measures, and therefore additional pre-financing is provided for the 2014-2020 cohesion policy operational programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal and for programmes financed by the european maritime and fisheries fund; the proposal also provides for a ceiling of 100% for the cumulative total of prefinancing and interim payments, increasing to 100% the co-financing rate for the 2007-13 operational programmes under the convergence, regional competitiveness and employment objectives in this country.
i agree with the importance of improving the employability of all dismissed workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working career, and it is vital that the training offered is adapted not only to the needs of dismissed workers but also to the real environment of companies.
i agree with the importance of improving the employability of all dismissed workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working career, and it is vital that the training offered is adapted not only to the needs of dismissed workers but also to the real environment of companies.
this financial contribution from the egf will help to mitigate the effects of globalisation, which has had a drastic effect on the reduction of passenger car production, by co-financing active labour market measures leading to sustainable and long-term employment, as well as the allocation of subsidies for self-employment, recruitment incentives and the promotion of entrepreneurship.
‒ local authorities, as key state and institutional actors in local governance, grassroots democracy and sustainable territorial development, have a key role to play in achieving the post-2015 objectives.
i agree that it is more effective to act at local level to improve the living conditions of people, particularly in rural areas, and that the new global sustainable development framework offers an opportunity to ensure broad participation of civil society organisations (csos), local authorities and national parliaments.
‒ local authorities (la) are key players in sustainable territorial development.
over eleven million vehicles have been intentionally tampered with worldwide, with software designed to falsify emissions tests.
we need to hold accountable for the environmental and public health crimes that have been committed.
it is important to ask the european commission what measures it will take to restore the truth to emissions tests and, above all, what it will do to better monitor the implementation of european legislation.
mr president, the falsification of emissions tests carried out by volkswagen is an aggression of great impact that goes far beyond the environmental component.
a 21st century disease where excessive faith in technology and corporate denial of global warming, often driven by the easy pursuit of profit, causes corporate environmental responsibility to be reduced, often to advertising and image actions.
in addition, this behaviour has the potential to spread to other sectors and may contribute to consumer distrust of efforts by regulators and brands to reduce their environmental footprint.
madam president, commissioner, the report under consideration has acquired particular importance with the approach of the climate summit and also with the debate on the problem of emissions in general, which has been raised by the recent crisis associated with motor vehicle emissions.
we must continue to be firmly at the forefront of the approach to controlling emissions at source, which on the one hand benefits air quality and on the other hand poses technological challenges that europe must seize to strengthen its position in the green and sustainable economy.
ensuring environmental quality and sustainability cannot be seen as a problem.
the air quality strategy should also be strongly linked to the energy union.
madam president, this legislation is welcome and it illustrates positively the effort to identify and develop synergies between sea and air quality, the impact of pollutants on human life, the environment and the need to mitigate global climate change.
the impact of insularity is thus recognised in terms of the logistical and technical aspects of energy response in these regions, which are characterised by a dispersed and relatively small population.
the azores, my home region, is an example of a largely positive balance in terms of environmental preservation, thanks to a continuing commitment to the protection of its natural, landscape and cultural heritage.
with the implementation of the planned reforms, coupled with existing assets such as its human resources and open economy, it will strengthen and empower its economy in a more sustainable and inclusive way.
‒ medium combustion plants are a major source of emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter (fine dust) and are used for a wide range of purposes, such as electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling, and the production of heat and/or steam for industrial processes.
emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants (unlike small and large plants) are not normally regulated at eu level.
- i voted in favour of this report, particularly as regards the azores and madeira, because i believe that the poorest regions cannot be subject to higher levels of pollution simply because they do not have the means.
‒ the report on the proposal for a directive is presented as an important instrument for improving air quality, and i therefore voted in favour of limiting emissions of certain pollutants into the atmosphere, which is the central issue under discussion.
‒ the control of emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere from medium combustion plants is not regulated at eu level.
as such, there is an urgent need to close this gap, as we are faced with an issue in the field of the protection of human health and the environment.
this proposal is in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and also with the new air quality framework for action set out in the eu thematic strategy on air pollution.
the environment and the citizens of the eu need to be protected by measures that contribute to that end, and therefore i vote in favour of this proposal for a directive.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
it should be noted that, as a general rule, emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants are not regulated at eu level and only this proposal will make it possible to set limit values for existing and future plants in line with the community's emission reduction obligations.
‒ we all agree on the harmful effects of air pollution on public health and the environment.
if we want effective results we have to go to the source of pollution.
this directive lays down provisions for medium combustion plants (150 000 in the eu), setting limit values for new and existing plants, together with a simple registration system, to ensure compliance by member states with the reduction of polluting emissions.
an eu climate policy will only be credible at global level if it is combined with a competitive industrial strategy but with a strong emphasis on sustainability and innovation.
‒ the fight against the atmospheric emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants is at the heart of this proposal for a directive.
in fact, there is a gap in this area, arising from the absence of any specific regulation at european level applying to emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants, which needs to be filled not only to bring about greater legislative coherence but also to reduce the harmful impacts on the environment and, not least, to combat the harmful effects these emissions have on human health.
another important aspect that will be addressed by regulation in this area is the significant contribution that the reduction of emissions from medium combustion plants will make to the achievement of the eu's climate and energy objectives by reducing greenhouse gases, improving energy efficiency and promoting renewable energy.
‒ this legislation is welcome and positively illustrates the effort to identify and develop synergies between air quality, the impact of pollutants on human life and the environment and the need to mitigate global climate change.
this acknowledges the impact of insularity on the logistical and technical aspects of the energy response in these regions, which are characterised by a dispersed and relatively small population.
the azores, my home region, is an example of a largely positive balance in terms of environmental preservation thanks to a continuing commitment to the protection of its natural, landscape and cultural heritage.
on the other hand, it is important to look at the context in which they operate, either because of the climate or because of their geographical location, with particular emphasis on the island territories of the eu countries.
in this respect, action at eu level is imperative in order to establish a more coherent and ambitious regulatory framework to combat pollutant emissions into the atmosphere.
although these have been significantly reduced over the past decades, air pollution levels are still problematic in many parts of europe and union citizens continue to be exposed to pollutants that potentially compromise their health and well-being.
this report thus represents an important instrument for improving air quality in the european union and an excellent opportunity to improve the regulation of emissions of certain pollutants without imposing unjustified burdens on society and the economy.
‒ medium combustion plants are a major source of emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter (fine dust) and are used for a wide range of purposes, such as electricity generation, domestic/residential heating and cooling, and the production of heat and/or steam for industrial processes.
emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants (unlike small and large plants) are not normally regulated at eu level.
i agree with the respect of sustainability criteria and labour rules in tendering procedures.
‒ euratom was set up in 1957 with the aim of developing the peaceful use of nuclear energy in member states which shared this objective, preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and coordinating the research programmes of the member states on the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
in view of the alignment of the financial regulation with the new directives, i welcome the amendments that have been included, also stressing that, in accordance with the principle of sustainability, contracting entities must take appropriate measures to ensure that, during the execution of contracts, economic operators comply with the obligations arising from environmental, social and labour legislation laid down in national and community legislation.
we must move towards the creation of the digital single market, which will facilitate the sale of products online and boost the activities of start-ups, just as it is essential to end cross-border links in the areas of transport and energy.
mr president, the importance of proper treatment of hazardous waste is unquestionable, as hungary has sadly witnessed.
however, in some eu countries, law enforcement agencies involved in environmental implementation still struggle with a lack of human resources, technological resources and specific skills.
what good is a good gross domestic product if you don't manage the environment properly?
the european union should request information from each member state on the use of funds for industrial environmental monitoring.
mr president, the development of the so-called energy union will mean nothing else than the subordination of this strategic and vital sector in modern economies and societies to the interests of the major european powers and their increasingly transnational economic groups, both from the point of view of infrastructure development and from the point of view of the ambitious integration of markets.
the answer to major and pressing issues such as improving energy efficiency, diversifying sources, including the sustainable use of each country's endogenous potential, security of supply or the energy isolation of certain member states, among others, will all be relegated to the background.
these are questions which can only be properly addressed within the framework of democratic public control of the energy sector.
energy is a precious public good which must be rescued from the hands of private sector monopolies - monopolies for the benefit of which this energy union is being developed.
in view of this case and many others, such as the whipping and imprisonment of raif badawi, the union and the member states must put an end to 'business as usual' and reassess their relations with saudi arabia in other areas such as trade, energy, security and military cooperation.
‒ the rupture of a waste reservoir in hungary spilled almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red sludge and flooded several villages, killing ten people, injuring around 150 and polluting vast areas, including four natura 2000 sites.
this accident exposed the weak enforcement and loopholes in environmental legislation on industrial toxic waste in the eu.
the resolution calls for efforts to understand the current situation of waste from mines, its management and treatment.
more investment is needed in research and development on the prevention and treatment of this type of toxic waste.
the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of environmental inspections, which would be more effective and more efficient.
regular information to the public on pollution levels and the degree of threat to ecosystems and public health is advocated.
‒ the red mud catastrophe in hungary in 2010 highlights a serious environmental situation, which calls for cooperation and solidarity at eu level.
red sludge is a hazardous waste until proven otherwise in accordance with commission decision 2014/955/eu and may be incorrectly classified in other member states, causing danger to the european community and giving rise to improper authorisations.
it is essential to take preventive measures to avoid further industrial disasters by correctly applying european environmental legislation and international conventions.
i am in favour of this motion for a resolution, stressing the need to close the gaps in european legislation and calling for cooperation by all member states in preventing environmental disasters and sharing financial risks.
‒ on 4 october 2010, the rupture of a waste reservoir in hungary spilled almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red sludge and flooded several villages, killing ten people, injuring around 150 and polluting vast areas, including four natura 2000 sites.
the commission and the member states must therefore intensify their efforts to ensure the prevention of pollution and the treatment of hazardous waste.
‒ in 2010, the rupture of a waste reservoir in hungary spilled almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red sludge and flooded several villages, killing ten people, injuring around 150 and polluting vast areas.
commission decision 2014/955/eu states that red sludge is to be classified as hazardous waste.
there is a risk that these have been classified as non-hazardous waste in other member states.
we are calling in a clear way for the member states to strengthen their national environmental inspection bodies.
- i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the most serious industrial disaster in hungary, caused by the rupture of a waste reservoir, which spilled almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red sludge and flooded several villages, killing ten people and injuring about 150. five years after the tragic accident, i pay a simple tribute to all the victims, and i commend those who, with great effort, intervened quickly and effectively in the resolution of this event, trying to find the best solutions to eliminate and reduce damage.
‒ the importance of proper treatment of hazardous waste is unquestionable.
i take this opportunity to supplement my statements in the plenary by reiterating that i consider it essential to find solutions for the proper management of this waste and that these have two approaches.
on the one hand, we must create the conditions for hazardous waste to be effectively treated, by giving it economic value and by creating extraordinary guarantees to compensate for losses caused by accidents.
at the same time, i believe that transparency must accompany the whole process of handling hazardous waste.
‒ this accident, which occurred five years ago and is reported here, exposed the poor enforcement and loopholes in eu environmental laws on industrial toxic waste.
this resolution calls for lessons to be learned and efforts to be made to understand the current situation of mine waste, its management and treatment, five years after this major accident in hungary.
the commission is asked to invest and give greater emphasis to research and development in the prevention and treatment of this type of toxic waste.
the real and effective prevention of pollution and environmental risks from extractive industries, among others, requires stricter environmental rules for environmental inspections, which implies allocating more resources to the national bodies responsible for these inspections.
more transparency is needed, with the responsible authorities regularly informing the public about the state of pollution and the possible impacts on fauna and flora, as well as on the health of local populations.
this accident exposed the weak enforcement and loopholes in environmental legislation on industrial toxic waste in the eu.
the resolution calls for efforts to understand the current situation of waste from mines, its management and treatment.
more investment is needed in research and development on the prevention and treatment of this type of toxic waste.
the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of environmental inspections, which would be more effective and more efficient.
regular information to the public on pollution levels and the degree of threat to ecosystems and public health is advocated.
gender equality and the empowerment of women are a precondition for achieving the sustainable development goals and the eu should ensure their promotion and mainstreaming in all its policies and actions.
if progress at icau and imo has been manifestly insufficient so far, the absence of a reference in terms of objectives for these sectors in paris would be simply irresponsible and would constitute political endorsement for the absence of a shared and balanced effort to reduce co2 emissions.
maritime and aviation transport together account for about 8% of global emissions and are on the rise.
it is not fair to require additional efforts from other sectors, such as energy or industry, which are also struggling to be competitive and whose contribution to reducing emissions is already clear.
we must ensure that ambition is maintained in the paris climate agreement.
at the moment, few issues are as pressing as the increase in climate change on planet earth.
this report, by proposing a very significant increase in renewable energy and by setting out a roadmap for the states, makes an effective contribution to reducing climate change.
with this option we are, in fact, changing the paradigm, giving priority to environmentally friendly energy and putting an early end to passive dependence on fossil fuels.
the paris summit focuses on climate change control, but underlying this theme is the need to change the principles on which the current process of economic and social globalisation is based.
it is also important that the european policy for the decarbonisation of the economy and for the technical and social transition should be an example for the world, and that it should be possible to set up a fund to support developing countries which will have to make a greater effort to adapt their growth strategies to the new objectives of sustainability of the planet.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ climate change requires an urgent, responsible and global response based on solidarity from the international community.
climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity for sustainable development, global health and the global economy.
the european union and its member states are committed to jointly adhering to a binding target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels.
however, i believe that we must have more ambitious targets and the european parliament should advocate a reduction of greenhouse gases by 50% by 2030 compared to 1990 and increase the share of renewable energy to 45% of the energy mix, achieving 40% energy savings.
i support the need for the paris agreement to be global, ambitious and legally binding in order to provide a long-term response to the challenges of climate change.
‒ i also agree with the need to reach an ambitious and legally binding global agreement at the paris climate conference, calling for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of at least 40% by 2030, an increase in energy efficiency of 40% and renewable energy sources of 30%.
a stable climate system is essential for food security, energy production, water and sanitation, infrastructure, as well as the preservation of biodiversity and terrestrial and marine ecosystems, peace and prosperity in the world.
it recalls that climate change is accelerating the loss of biodiversity.
it is noted that between 2008 and 2013, 166 million people were forced to leave their homes due to floods, storms, earthquakes or other disasters, adding that climate-related developments in some parts of africa may contribute to exacerbating the refugee crisis in the mediterranean.
‒ climate change is now an unavoidable reality and represents one of the main threats to the sustainable development of our planet.
for this reason, the european union is committed to reaching an ambitious and legally binding global agreement, which includes concrete targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 (compared to 1990), increasing energy efficiency to 40% and increasing renewable energy sources to 30%.
finally, i stress the need for this international climate agreement to be binding, capable of responding to the challenges posed by climate change in the long term, so that we can contribute to a stable climate system that preserves the biodiversity of ecosystems and human health.
‒ i think it is very important that the european parliament, which represents all the citizens of the european union, sends a clear message of urgency to cop21 in paris with regard to the intensification of global climate change.
this report, by proposing a very significant increase in renewable energy and by setting out a roadmap for the states, makes an effective contribution to reducing climate change.
with this option we are, in fact, changing the paradigm, giving priority to environmentally friendly energy and putting an early end to passive dependence on fossil fuels.
‒ climate change poses an urgent and potentially irreversible global threat to human societies and the biosphere.
according to the scientific data of 2014, there is no doubt about the warming of the climate system.
we note that the eu reduced emissions by 19% between 1990 and 2013 under the kyoto protocol, and increased its gdp by over 45%.
unfortunately, between 1990 and 2013, global ghg emissions increased by more than 50%, with the global monthly average concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere exceeding the 400 parts per million threshold for the first time in march 2015. we therefore have the greatest doubts about the ability of emission trading systems to solve this problem, insofar as they treat equally companies with large developmental differences.
‒ the environmental problems facing humanity today are manifold and diverse, and are so serious that they threaten the very existence of life on earth as we know it.
a consistent approach to climate change should focus, for example, on reducing dependence on fossil fuels.
the world's major economic powers seem more interested in using climate as a pretext for lucrative business opportunities than in achieving real emission reduction targets, without necessarily challenging the current dominant economic and social organisation on a global scale, insisting on the main instrument proposed by the eu to contain climate change, which not only does not contribute to alleviating this dependence but is even an obstacle to the necessary energy paradigm shift.
the difficulties and contradictions of these climate change conferences stem largely from the failure of the major industrial powers, including of course the eu, to understand the true and profound meaning of the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibility', and not from a lack of diplomacy or a voice speaking for 28 sovereign countries.
it is urgent to stop and act in defence of our agriculture and, in particular, of our small and mediumsized family farms, the only ones able to guarantee sustainable production, close to home and in which consumers can have confidence.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a research programme for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the eu's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications.
‒ artemis was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking (hereinafter referred to as the joint undertaking) was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a research programme for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas in order to enhance the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications, and started its autonomous operation in october 2009. according to the joint undertaking, and in accordance with the staff regulations and the rules implementing them, the cvs and declarations of interests of the executive director and the joint undertaking's managers have been published on its website.
‒ on 18 september 2015, the united states environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) issued a warning of pollution violations by diesel vehicles of the volkswagen group, and the group later admitted to having installed software that detected when the car was being tested, reducing the amount of emissions.
the commission should adopt and apply the new real driving emissions test cycle without delay.
it is recalled that air pollution causes more than 430 000 premature deaths in the eu each year and has an estimated cost of eur 940 billion due to its health effects.
on 18 september 2015, the united states environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) issued a notice of violation of the pollution standards applicable to volkswagen ag, audi ag and volkswagen group of america.
however, it did not warn the competent national authorities of the member states about the impact of manipulating devices on the reliability of measurement of diesel emissions from cars.
basically, it has done nothing, thus demonstrating how, despite all the rhetoric associated with environmental issues, it is dominated by the interests of the large multinational companies, which effectively control the european union.
‒ following recent events concerning the volkswagen group's breach of pollution rules, in which thousands of vehicles were found to have been manipulated to artificially reduce the amount of polluting emissions into the atmosphere, a series of measures have been proposed in the european parliament to prevent fraudulent situations that endanger public health and the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
hence the need to create conditions that provide effective systems for controlling pollutant emissions by strengthening monitoring systems, as the transport sector is a major contributor to the levels of pollution in the atmosphere, as well as to the impact that this contribution has on health.
i am in favour of this motion for a resolution because this is a matter of extreme importance, which requires an effective response from the european union, since social and environmental issues are at stake which lack answers and solutions for prevention.
‒ i believe it is important that additional measures are taken to strengthen the eu strategy for sustainable and efficient transport systems.
‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution on the measurement of emissions in the automobile sector, because i consider that any fraud by car manufacturers should be strongly condemned (this joint motion for a resolution brought together different resolutions from 4 different parliamentary groups - epp, s&d, greens and alde - leaving out the ecr and gue/ngl parliamentary groups, which maintained their initial proposals), with the aim of misleading consumers about the emissions of their vehicles, especially when we know that excess emissions cause premature death and have harmful effects on human health and the environment (and obviously also in governments and companies, although there are other reasons for this, such as tax evasion or even environmental fraud).
‒ on 18 september 2015, the united states environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) issued a notice of violation of the pollution standards applicable to volkswagen ag, audi ag and volkswagen group of america.
the commission has also received information from the united kingdom on the use of the 'clean energy' technology in the volkswagen group's diesel vehicles.
however, it did not warn the competent national authorities of the member states of the impact of the manipulating devices on the reliability of the measurement of diesel emissions from cars.
‒ on 18 september 2015, the united states environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) issued a notice of violation of the pollution standards applicable to volkswagen ag, audi ag and volkswagen group of america.
this is not only about energy transition, but about a circular economy to better manage our resources.
we need to have an updated global strategy and the first test for this would be for europe to lead the next paris conference, for europe to lead in the implementation of the sustainable development goals, and let me also address the importance of bringing about a real partnership with africa as our neighbour continent.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i have heard colleagues here on several occasions raise this important issue of air pollution and the various levels of air quality which obviously affect human health and the environment.
this legislation is an incentive for technological innovation and should be implemented in harmony and coordination with other policies in the field of research and development, protection of biodiversity and climate change.
this must be done with a view to parallel planning at all these levels, or we will jeopardise the transition to a low-carbon economy, the resilience of our resources and the quality of life of future generations.
line 19 02 01, 'response to crisis and emerging crisis situations', amendment 995: payments will be adjusted to eur 156 914 703. item 21 02 07 04, 'food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture', amendment 1 373: payments will be adjusted to eur 89 783 000. the commission has also proposed that the amount of the payment be increased to eur 28 114 291 for line 21 02 07 05, 'migration and asylum', amendment 1 374. he also called for the commission to be given the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the budget.
we have tabled 13 amendments in plenary, each of which has been endorsed by at least 40 members: the creation of a programme to support a negotiated exit from the euro; the creation of a programme to support countries involved in the troika; the strengthening of support for small and medium-sized enterprises; the strengthening of the youth employment initiative, conditional on the creation of permanent jobs with rights; the strengthening of the fruit (66%) and milk distribution schemes in schools (100%); the strengthening of the life environment and climate action programme the environment sub-programme; the strengthening of translation and interpretation expenditure in the eu institutions; the strengthening of the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige); the strengthening of support for the peace process and financial assistance to palestine.
3. cap support has for several years been translated into direct aid to farmers who, on their land, have the autonomy to develop the most appropriate agricultural activities, including livestock production and cattle, depending on objective conditions (soil, climate, water, size, etc.)
these are proposals that show that it is possible to strengthen existing programmes, aimed at cohesion and the social and environmental areas, while cutting back in other areas, such as the eu's external interventionism, militarism and institutional propaganda.
‒ the european parliament and the council agreed to transpose into union law a number of recommendations made by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean which provides for an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation in order to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of rupture.
i am in favour of the recommendation for second reading because the adoption of this type of measure implies the adoption of sufficient levels of sustainability to protect it from marine resources and takes into account the measures that are already being implemented at national level by the member states.
‒ established in 1949, the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) provides an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation in order to promote the development, conservation, rational management and better use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of rupture.
at its annual sessions in 2011, 2012 and 2013, the gfcm adopted a set of recommendations with a view to the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles and cetaceans, the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm agreement area, and the sustainable development of small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
- i voted in favour of limiting emissions of acidifying eutrophication pollutants, among others, to help achieve the union's air quality objectives, thereby minimising negative impacts on human health and the environment.
biodiversity in ecosystems will also benefit greatly from the control of these substances as their deposition to the bottom of lakes and soil will be reduced.
this directive is all the more important as it will align these emissions with the union's 2030 climate and energy targets and send a positive signal on the eve of the paris climate summit, where an international agreement is expected to be reached to effectively combat man-made climate change.
i also voted in favour of the key votes relating to the introduction of methane and ammonia emission targets, since a large part of air pollution comes from emissions of these gases from agriculture.
the establishment of binding targets for the reduction of these emissions by the member states by 2025 was also voted in favour.
‒ this legislative proposal sets new national emission limit values for certain air pollutants with the aim of reducing threats to human health, the environment and the climate.
in europe, the total external costs to society related to health and caused by air pollution are estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year.
according to the report, member states should at least limit their emissions of sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvoc), ammonia (nh3), particulate matter (pm2,5) and mercury (hg).
the containment of non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvocs) and methane (ch4) should be placed in the broader context of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
‒ for pressing environmental and public health reasons, air quality concerns everyone.
it is proposed to amend the emission limits for air pollutants, in particular sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds, for 2020 and 2030. mercury has also been added to this list, with limits for this element to be introduced only from 2020. in addition, the scope of the directive is extended to include particulate matter (pm2,5) from 2020 and, with a view to convergence with climate legislation, methane from 2030. the new 2030 targets in the proposal are the most complex element, with different limits for each member state and each pollutant, based on achieving 70% of the maximum technically feasible reductions in health impacts as defined by the who.
‒ the permitting of emissions of certain air pollutants should be subject to binding reduction commitments.
air pollution is a serious public health problem, causing around 430 000 premature deaths in the eu each year, and it is essential that risks or threats to health and the environment are controlled.
‒ high air quality is a design that takes on a cross-border dimension in the context of public health and environmental protection.
however, the key is to enforce it, taking into account the negative impacts of these emissions on health and on the increase in air pollution.
this legislation is an incentive for technological innovation and should be implemented in harmony and coordination with other policies in the field of research and development, protection of biodiversity and climate change.
this must be done with a view to parallel evolution at all these levels, or we will jeopardise the transition to a low-carbon economy, the resilience of our resources and the quality of life of future generations.
the proposal to repeal and replace this directive amends the union regime as regards national emission limits for air pollutants for 4 new pollutants, namely for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds for 2020 and 2030. mercury has also been added to this list, with limits for this element to be introduced only from 2020. finally, it should be noted that these new emission targets contained in the air quality standards will be redundant if we do not see a clear political will to reduce pollution from the main sources.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, considering that air quality is a transboundary issue with significant implications for human health and the environment, which deeply affects all citizens of the european union and requires immediate action.
after years of political neglect, air pollution is now emerging on the political agenda as a serious environmental and public health problem, mainly due to the volkswagen case.
moreover, although work has been done to reduce air pollution in the union, many member states have not yet reached agreed standards and the european union itself remains far from its long-term objective.
in this respect, the current commission proposal is highly relevant as it replaces the existing directive by setting new emission limit values for 2020 and 2030 and requiring member states to adopt national air pollution control programmes.
on 18 december 2013, the commission published its long-awaited clean air package, which consists of four elements: a clean air programme for europe; a proposal for a decision to ratify the 2012 amendment to the gothenburg protocol to the unece convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on behalf of the eu; a proposal for a new directive on the reduction of pollution from medium combustion plants, such as large-scale power plants for large buildings, and small industrial installations; and finally the legislative proposal on which this report is based, which revises the 2001 directive on national emission limit values for certain atmospheric pollutants.
eusair is a unique opportunity for the countries of the region to turn over a new leaf and put economic and political problems behind them, working together, guided by the commission, towards prosperity and sustainable development.
references to the eu's macroeconomic policy framework are few and far between, which is a positive thing in this case, since the main aim is to exploit the development factors of the region in an integrated and sustainable way.
the principles of the blue economy are valued, alongside the promotion of a fishery that is sustainable and that values traditional segments; the protection of environmental quality and biodiversity is advocated; the establishment of sustainable tourism with less seasonality is advocated.
the establishment of several priorities for eusair unfolds in important areas to be developed in the future, which will contribute to economic and social growth in the region, namely blue growth, environmental quality and sustainable and competitive tourism.
‒ the report emphasises regional development factors that are integrated and sustainable.
it values the principles of the blue economy and the promotion of sustainable fishing that uses traditional means.
it promotes the protection of environmental quality and biodiversity and advocates the establishment of sustainable tourism that is less dependent on seasonality.
‒ the report is quite positive, highlighting the factors of development in the region that are integrated and sustainable.
it values the principles of the blue economy and the promotion of sustainable fishing that takes advantage of traditional means; it promotes the protection of environmental quality and biodiversity as a matter of fact; it advocates the establishment of sustainable tourism with less seasonality.
the europe 20-20 strategy is a comprehensive long-term strategy for 'growth and jobs' built around five objectives: employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability, education and the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
‒ cohesion policy for 2014-2020 is the eu's main investment and development policy, aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it aims to reduce disparities between regions and promote convergence, with a budget of €351.8 billion by the end of 2020 i therefore vote in favour of this mid-term review report on the europe 2020 strategy, which calls for better linkage between the five objectives of the strategy - employment, innovation, climate change and energy sustainability, education and the fight against poverty and social exclusion - and its flagship initiatives.
‒ i share the view that the existence of a stable macroeconomic environment is conducive to the correct and successful implementation of the european structural and investment funds.
it is very important to focus improvement in competitiveness on factors for the future, meaning innovation, education, energy and public administration, rather than just controlling labour costs.
mr president, the european semester is key to making the european union a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy.
commissioner, minister, this is a europe of regions and as such we must not ignore that many of them need more investment to improve their growth potential and ensure their sustainability, and this cannot be forgotten in the european semester.
we believe that what is at stake now is not only energy transition but also promoting a circular economy and providing new kinds of jobs because of that; what is at stake is not only to promote digital telecommunications but the full range of new services, products and the new jobs connected with this; what is at stake is not only to strengthen r&d but to turn r&d into real innovative services and products, and finally, in the social dimension, we believe that beyond quality jobs we also need to tackle social inequalities.
the combination of the energy union and the digital union is one such pathway.
the smart combination of the energy union and the digital union is a path of sustainable development in which the european union can lead.
the social and employment situation has deteriorated, poverty and social exclusion have reached unacceptable levels, precariousness and unemployment have become widespread, exploitation has increased, and liberalization and privatisation of strategic sectors and public services - financial services, energy, transport, postal services and others - have taken place.
in the same vein, the union must set out on the path of global affirmation of this sector, valuing its contribution to the sustainable development of europe and its regions.
in a climate of large-scale surveillance, it is important that the european commission, as the 'guardian of the treaties', step up its efforts to respond to the challenges of the legal framework on data protection.
we fear that this security drift, which seeks to ride the wave of terrorist attacks and the climate of fear that has been created among the citizens, is putting fundamental rights at risk.
it is vital to keep up with the digital revolution, ensuring that all businesses, especially smes, can benefit from it, and the digital tourism platform launched by the european commission is to be congratulated, and to promote sustainable, competitive tourism, which promotes growth and employment and which always has the well-being of the tourist consumer at its core!
the way tourism should be developed is based on assumptions of environmental responsibility, sustainability and social responsibility.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the existing rules to include the possibility of a new regulation on the protection of the environment, in particular the regulation on the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster.
finally, i would just like to emphasise that i support a european tourism strategy based on sustainability criteria, which means that in this context it is essential to promote initiatives that promote responsible management of resources, with reliable indicators and initiatives that reward the merit of 'environmentally friendly' destinations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
but the reforms should focus mainly on growth potential, innovation, education and energy transition, making sure, too, that we can keep sustainable social welfare systems.
i would say that this new policy mix should be particularly rigorously applied in the euro area, and that is why we need to reduce the macroeconomic and macro-social imbalances which we have in the euro area and which are undermining its long-term sustainability.
(the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, europe, the european union, remains stagnant, despite a favourable exchange rate, low energy costs and a colossal injection of liquidity from the european central bank, which amounts to almost half of the euro area's gdp.
i understand that it is in this line that greater competitiveness contributes to greater social justice and that this greater social justice itself stimulates competitiveness and therefore people must be sure, they must have a guarantee that they can foresee and organise their lives and this is only possible if we can guarantee the sustainability of public accounts, fiscal responsibility and budgetary balance.
despite a favourable exchange rate, low energy costs and the massive liquidity injection by the ecb, which amounts to almost half of euro area gdp, there is no sign of a solid recovery in the economy, as evidenced by the weak level of private investment.
it is important to stress that the measures adopted will ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of the sector (threatened by competition both on the internal and external markets) on the one hand, and high safety, labour and environmental standards on the other.
in europe, the economy of the air transport sector directly contributed to 2.6 million jobs and accounted for more than 2.4% of eu gdp, and in 2014 849.4 million passengers were transported by air in the eu, an increase of 4.4% compared to 2013 and 16.9% compared to 2009. however, the environment around the companies areas is changing rapidly, which has already led to the elimination of more than 20 000 jobs.
against this background, the presentation of an aviation package aimed at identifying and responding to the challenges facing the eu aviation sector is of the utmost importance, including in order to strengthen its sustainability and competitiveness, consolidate european airlines, airports and the aviation industry, ensure a level playing field in the global market and define a long-term strategy for the european aviation sector.
improving the competitiveness and ensuring the sustainability of the sector, which is expected to double air traffic by 2030, is an important basis for employment growth in the european union, as the report in question argues.
and there is therefore no success possible without building, in this preparatory phase, the right alliances and strong alliances towards a more equitable and sustainable development, which uses trade in the right way.
stop in the name of animal welfare, biodiversity and public health.
so it's important to extend our agricultural equation to other social and environmental variables, in the name of our planet's survival.
the commissioner will tell us why this is so, but perhaps this is the best evidence of the interests which inspire the common energy market and the so-called energy union - a project tailored to the major european monopolies in the sector.
the answer to pressing questions such as improving energy efficiency, diversifying sources, moving towards renewables, making sustainable use of each country's endogenous potential, security of supply, and many other questions, requires public, democratic planning and control of the energy sector, energy production and distribution.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is still a lot to be done to ensure that the energy union will bring economic benefits to households, lowering energy costs and enabling businesses to be more competitive on the global market.
the potential for job creation in the renewable energy and energy efficiency sectors is also enormous.
several member states have done their homework on progress in the integration of renewable energy.
some of these renewable sources are already competitive in terms of generation costs.
i would remind you that the lack of interconnections is a real obstacle to further investment in clean energy today.
(the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, on the eve of the paris climate summit, the energy union is moving forward and on its way.
the european union and the world need a robust and credible energy union.
the improvement in information on statistics, prices, the provision of relevant information on energy security, nuclear safety, oil reserves, energy efficiency and consumption trends is also important.
we need, to lead the energy transition, political intelligence, to mobilize citizens, to mobilize businesses, to have regulatory flexibility, convergence of efforts among the 28 countries and the ability to attract investment.
it is also very important to have interconnections, because without them there will be energy islands, and without a single energy market there will be no energy union.
the european union is facing a triple energy challenge.
rising energy prices pose another challenge.
finally, climate change requires a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
if no other solutions are adopted, dependence on energy imports could reach 70% in 20 or 30 years from 53% today.
however, this eu intends to solve this serious structural problem through the market, by privatising the sector, by preventing governments from intervening directly or indirectly, or even, astonishingly, by forcing the existence of a carbon market which, in practice, has never worked.
we remain convinced that only public control of the key sectors of the energy sector can lead to lasting solutions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
the european union has adopted a very active policy of participation in all regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo) with the aim of contributing to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
the eu, taking into account its commitments under the provisions of the united nations convention on the law of the sea, should continue to lead by example in the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
‒ the convention for the conservation of southern tuna is a regional fisheries management organisation (rfmo) responsible for the management of southern tuna in all its distribution areas and has been in force since 20 may 1994. since the united nations convention on the law of the sea in 1982, the eu has pursued a very active policy of participation in all rfmos with the aim of contributing to the efficient, rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
in addition to a track record of focusing on sustainable fisheries, the european union has been promoting and supporting international cooperation processes that have led to a more responsible use of the seas.
‒ all children should have the right to education, health services, housing, protection, participation in decisions affecting them, leisure and free time, a balanced diet and care in the family environment, as stipulated in the un convention on the rights of the child.
‒ the european reality points to an increase in child poverty and social exclusion, in contradiction with the provisions of the un convention on the rights of the child, which states that all children should be guaranteed the right to education, health care, housing, protection, leisure and free time, balanced nutrition and care in a family environment.
‒ according to the un convention on the rights of the child, all children should be guaranteed the rights to education, health services, housing, protection, participation in decisions affecting them, leisure and free time, a balanced diet and care in the family environment.
the point is that the necessary adjustments are made and monitoring and qualitative evaluation mechanisms are introduced so that interventions can achieve sustainable and long-term results.
the eu's security instability (conflicts in ukraine, syria, the expansion of is), development and humanitarian aid problems, environmental and climate change challenges cannot be solved by themselves without a global response, with the support of the international community, under the auspices of the un.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
examples include the strengthening of work in developing countries and of various international companies that also contribute in this respect, the fight against violence, gender equality, the fight against corruption, climate change and the proper management of refugee flows.
this cut, in a context where climate change is leading to the emergence of several epidemic crises, leaves us, to say the least, apprehensive.
despite the increase in commitments for horizon 2020, the cosme programme and the erasmus+ programme, payment appropriations were cut by eur 460 100 000. cuts were made in the total of budget lines for the promotion of sustainable rural development (eur 87 000 000), in the european regional development fund (erdf) (eur 127 259 355), in the cohesion funds (eur 43 693 564) and in rural development programmes (eur 33 000 000).
this cut, in a context where climate change is leading to the emergence of several epidemic crises, leaves us at least apprehensive.
dehp is widely used, and both eu citizens and the environment are exposed.
the ageing workforce in many member states and demographic changes in europe point to the need to promote a safe and healthy working environment for all workers throughout the entire life cycle.
‒ health and safety at work are essential for society, and are seen as beneficial investments in the productivity and competitiveness of companies, as well as improving the sustainability of social security systems and enabling people to enjoy good health until retirement age.
the european union, in accordance with article 153 tfeu, shall support and complement the action of the member states in improving the working environment in order to protect the health and safety of workers.
examples such as productivity, labour participation and the sustainability of the social security system itself are the positive results of a set of measures and policies in health and safety at work that are re-thought and implemented.
i agree with the need to accompany economic growth and sustainable development with appropriate accompanying macroeconomic and microeconomic policies, including budgetary transparency, tax equity, administrative simplification, education, training, social policies and institutional reforms.
the crisis of the profitability of capital and its unprecedented degree of centralization and concentration of wealth leads it to seek new forms of exploitation, creating agreements of neo-colonial character, in which developed countries dictate what developing countries should or should not do in areas such as fiscal and tax policies, administrative organization, education and training, institutional reforms and social policies, while exploiting their natural resources with irreversible consequences for the environment, and attacking progress and social achievements such as public services and the right to fair employment.
trade liberalisation is an essential tool for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development, which should be accompanied by macro- and microeconomic measures such as fiscal transparency, fiscal policies, tax equity, administrative simplification, education and training, institutional reforms and social policies.
in this particular case, the principle of special and differential treatment must be an integral part of the negotiations, ensuring the sustainable economic growth and development of the least developed countries, the main victims of the imbalances in the trading system.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which comes just before the 10th wto ministerial conference in kenya from 15 to 18 december 2015. i fully support the need for greater liberalisation of world trade, based on a multilateral system based on fairer and more equitable rules, which will make it possible to contribute to trade opportunities that promote the development and sustainable and sustained growth of the least developed countries, bearing in mind the principle of special and differential treatment, which must underlie this type of negotiation.
the crisis of the profitability of capital and its unprecedented degree of centralisation and concentration of wealth leads it to seek new forms of exploitation, creating agreements of a neo-colonial nature, in which the countries at the centre dictate what the countries at the periphery should or should not do in matters such as budgetary and tax policies, administrative organisation, education and training, institutional reforms and social policies, while exploiting their natural resources with irreversible environmental consequences.
‒ the european parliament called on the andean countries to ensure the establishment of a transparent and binding roadmap on human, environmental and labour rights and for the colombian and peruvian governments to present action plans for sustainable development before parliament gives its approval.
the reference to the policies pursued by the ecuadorian government: "for having invested more than 40 billion dollars in the social sector over the last eight years" and the encouragement to continue "its progressive policy of social and sustainable development" are to be welcomed.
this is an opportunity for ecuador to improve the living conditions of its citizens in terms of human rights, labour and the environment.
while i voted in favour of this report, i share the concerns raised in the committee on international trade, of which i am a member, about the need for this country to adopt policies consistent with its wto commitments and also to comply with the action plans submitted on human, environmental and labour rights.
the first major flaw in this resolution is the lack of recognition of the great contradiction between the increasingly liberal, market-oriented common agricultural policy, which pushes farmers towards intensive production models where profit is overridden by animal welfare and health, and all the scientific evidence that warns us of the need to defend ecological balances, animal welfare, biodiversity and public health.
animal welfare and informed and conscious consumer choices are two factors of the utmost importance, which have been taken into account in the implementation of measures contributing to the sustainability of high european standards.
stop in the name of animal welfare, biodiversity and public health.
it is therefore important to extend our agricultural equation to other social and environmental variables in the name of our planet's survival.
‒ the first major flaw in this resolution is the lack of recognition of the great contradiction between the increasingly liberal, market-oriented common agricultural policy, which pushes farmers towards intensive production models where profit overrides animal welfare and health, and all the scientific evidence that warns us of the need to defend ecological balances, animal welfare, biodiversity and public health.
a political consensus not just to mitigate global warming, but to change behaviors and models of economic and social management.
we need to put people and the planet at the centre of the sustainable development process.
and this package responds to the challenges of efficient use of resources throughout their transformation and use cycle, and in doing so will help to solve key issues such as growth, the creation of quality jobs, the reduction of inequalities, the preservation of the oceans, or the protection of biodiversity.
madam president, commissioner vella, one of the objectives of implementing and strengthening the circular economy is to reduce the amount of waste that flows into the seas.
the impact of plastic waste at sea is extremely serious, holistic and perennial and is identified by several international bodies and is one of the priorities of the g7.
the new circular economy package must go far beyond the idea of simply improving our waste management.
it must go further and tackle the fundamental problem head-on, answering the question: why do we generate so much waste?
the expected increase in the municipal recycling rate to 70% and other waste-related measures are all welcome, but we cannot afford to lose another opportunity to raise awareness of the need for a real change in our consumption patterns and in the management of our resources.
we need to develop indicators of the environmental footprint of materials, water, land and greenhouse gases.
soon, 80% of europe's citizens will live in cities, which is a paradigm shift in terms of accessibility and mobility for europe's citizens, and places urban centres in front of social, quality of life and sustainable development challenges.
i believe that it is urgent to establish sustainable urban mobility plans that include all citizens, in particular people with reduced mobility, and that involve reducing the dependency on cars in cities, which is responsible for serious health, ecological and congestion problems, and redesigning the way we move around in cities (both in transporting people and goods).
while certain sectors, such as agriculture and industry, have reduced their greenhouse gas emissions, the transport sector shows an increase of 30% since 1990. while the major cities of the european union are living at the peak of pollution, some 400 000 premature deaths are caused annually by particulate matter emitted by the european car fleet.
to this end, the european union should set ambitious targets so that member states and regional and local authorities can jointly implement this new model of sustainable urban mobility, giving priority to electric mobility plans, non-polluting modes of transport: electric, cable cars, bicycles and car sharing.
the report stresses the importance of developing sustainable urban mobility policies that do not inhibit the development of cities, regions and countries, while ensuring the reduction of the environmental impacts of the transport sector, better urban planning, improved health indicators and social inclusion.
the transport sector is thus the only one that has not reduced its greenhouse gas emissions.
the report emphasises the promotion of quality and affordable public transport (including as a means of boosting urban economies and helping to combat poverty and social exclusion), the need to promote mobility plans, the use of alternative fuels, the improvement of pollution situations and their impact on human health (air pollutant emissions and noise pollution) and the reduction of accidents.
‒ i have cast my vote in favour of the proposal on sustainable urban mobility.
if we consider that in the near future some 80% of european citizens will live in cities, it is extremely important that there is a reorientation of urban mobility, especially with regard to more sustainable modes of transport.
the protection of the climate, health, the environment, well-being and safety are 21st century challenges that the eu must ensure.
global warming requires a reversal of behavior.
the 2030 emissions targets have to be met.
‒ the importance of sustainable mobility - especially urban mobility - is increasingly a topic on the table and is currently being widely debated at global level, and therefore also in european terms.
according to statistics, it is estimated that by 2050 some 82% of citizens will live in urban areas, thus posing new social and urban planning challenges, sustainable development and the quality of life in cities.
therefore, to achieve the objective of creating a new model of sustainable urban development, it is necessary to invest in sound, high-quality urban mobility projects that serve the general interest.
in this respect, and in this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, i stress the importance of creating long-term sustainable urban mobility plans that incorporate information technologies, allow for the creation of appropriate and safe mobility solutions for all citizens and take into account the special needs of people with reduced mobility.
i also support the position taken by the rapporteur on the position that the eu should take by ensuring that member states, local and regional authorities work together to achieve this, creating the conditions for positive effects in spatial planning, socioeconomic planning and environmental protection.
‒ land use planning is crucial for the creation of efficient, accessible transport networks and becomes fundamental to environmentally sustainable urban planning.
long-term sustainable urban mobility plans (ltsp), supported by ict technologies, are important tools for providing adequate and safe mobility solutions for all citizens.
‒ the report stresses the importance of developing sustainable urban mobility policies that do not inhibit the development of cities, regions and countries, while ensuring the reduction of the environmental impacts of the transport sector, better urban planning, improved health indicators and social inclusion.
the report emphasises the promotion of quality and affordable public transport (including as a means of boosting urban economies and helping to combat poverty and social exclusion), the need to promote mobility plans, the use of alternative fuels, the improvement of pollution situations and their impact on human health (air pollutant emissions and noise pollution) and the reduction of accidents.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we need an energy union because it is strategic for our independence and also to promote the independence of other states with which we are in contact and to avoid conflicts in the world, as we have seen in the middle east and in the russia-ukraine conflict.
we absolutely need to invest in the interconnectivity of energy networks the commissioner has said that it is ridiculous, for example, that the iberian peninsula does not even provide electricity.
we need to focus on energy efficiency.
we need more investment by the member states and the commission in renewable energy, not nuclear in my view.
we are constantly witnessing the persistence of what is a market failure, and we have an obligation to engage politically in resolving it, without giving in to the vested interests which for years, or even decades, have prevented a proper integration of the energy market.
failure to do so would condemn several member states to their peripheral condition, not only in energy terms but also economically.
in paris, an irreversible step was taken in the right direction for the sustainability of the planet.
the energy transition is not the only instrument to achieve the targets, but it is the most important.
the european union must firmly implement the energy union and the single energy market to lead by example in combating global warming and to embark on a decisive path of economic turnaround towards growth, quality job creation and tackling inequalities.
the focus on renewable energy, smart grids, new models of urban organisation, sustainable mobility, energy efficiency of buildings and public spaces, new services and models of industrial production calls for innovation and creativity on the one hand, and gives purpose and focus to fundamental and applied research on the other.
the union's energy sovereignty and plurality of supply sources must be jointly ensured by building a market capable of delivering clean and cheap energy to households and businesses, ensuring the objective of minimum 10% interconnections by 2020 and its clear surpassing in the years to come.
a few days after the environment committee of the european parliament raised an objection to the authorisation of monsanto's genetically modified maize nk603 t25, the european commission, in the absence of a consensus of the member states, decided to authorise the placing on the market of this same genetically modified maize.
this is a serious situation with consequences for the sustainability of the water catchment areas in the short term and a potentially irreversible risk to fishermen's incomes and jobs in the medium and long term.
we may not agree with some of the details in this report, but we are in complete agreement with the need to preserve the sustainability of fishermen, marine resources and ecosystems.
the reality confirms what we have repeatedly been saying here and what president draghi said in 2014, which is that in a recessive economic environment, monetary union alone is not enough to boost the economy.
however, it has made numerous efforts to boost growth in the tourism sector and geothermal energy production.
the measures provided for in this amendment are designed to 'ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of fishery resources in the north-east atlantic area, with the expectation of lasting environmental and social results.
the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a contracting party, aims, as stated by the european commission, to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing sustainable environmental and social benefits.
i believe that these measures will allow for the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing lasting environmental and social benefits.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the regulation to include the following areas: the protection of the marine environment, the conservation of fishery resources and the protection of the marine environment.
i also agree that the measures provided for in this amendment will ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing lasting environmental and social benefits.
‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a contracting party, aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing sustainable environmental and social benefits.
the measures provided for in this amendment will ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing lasting environmental and social benefits.
the measures provided for in this amendment are designed to 'ensure better long-term conservation and optimum use of fishery resources in the north-east atlantic area, with the expectation of lasting environmental and social results.
i believe that these measures will allow for the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, providing lasting environmental and social benefits.
‒ european energy policy must ensure the functioning of the energy market, security of energy supply, promote energy efficiency and energy savings, develop renewable energies and promote the interconnection of energy networks.
the existence of 28 energy hubs, the high level of total energy imports (53%), especially oil and natural gas, and the dependence of some states on a single supplier place the eu in a position of vulnerability and supply disruptions to the taste of political and trade divergences.
i support the gróbarczyk report for its view that there is an urgent need to create a true resilient energy union, with a forward-looking climate change policy based on the transition to an efficient sustainable energy system, with smart and interconnected infrastructure, with renewable energy and better use of europe's energy resources.
special attention should be paid to decarbonising our economy and setting binding climate and energy targets by 2030, as well as to a strong focus on research and innovation so that we can take the lead in energy technologies.
putting citizens at the heart of the energy union means giving them safe, sustainable and affordable energy sources!
‒ i abstained from voting on the original text of paragraph 134 because i believe that the text is unclear and leads to a false answer, especially for those who, like me, believe that shale gas extraction should be stopped in favour of cleaner alternative energy sources.
‒ the so-called 'european energy union' is a tailor-made project for the major european monopolies in the sector, and it is certainly not out of proportion to say that documents such as this report are, in essence, their specifications.
the energy sector is liberalised and privatised in the various member states, and then it is said that energy must be accessible to all and that energy poverty must be tackled.
the liberalization of this sector within the single market has led to the creation of transnational private monopolies which colonize markets and accumulate prodigious profits, while energy prices for consumers and micro, small and mediumsized enterprises reach unbearable levels.
the disparity in energy access and prices is growing.
only a publicly owned and managed energy sector can guarantee affordable energy prices for the population and maintain sovereignty in the definition of national energy strategies.
the appropriate response to energy efficiency improvements, diversification of sources, progress towards renewables, and the fight against energy poverty, among other challenges, requires public, democratic planning and control of the energy sector, energy production and distribution.
‒ i welcome the european council's proposal to achieve a minimum level of electricity interconnection between member states of 15% by 2030. it is essential to end the energy isolation, the so-called energy islands.
the iberian peninsula can play a decisive role in the establishment of a european energy union.
‒ in accordance with article 194 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, european energy policy shall ensure the functioning of the energy market, the security of energy supply, and the promotion of energy efficiency and energy savings.
i am voting in favour of this report, which aims to increase energy security by reducing dependence on russia, to improve energy efficiency by focusing heavily on renewable energy and to deepen the european energy interconnection market, in particular by improving the iberian links to france.
we must therefore diversify sources of supply, established routes and types of energy production and support people and businesses in providing their homes or businesses with better environmental conditions, as well as effectively investing in electric cars and innovative methods of electricity production.
on a subject as wide-ranging and complex as the energy union, and very specifically on this own-initiative report - with which i broadly agree - i would like to highlight some aspects which i consider relevant (having in mind the commission communication entitled 'a framework strategy for a resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy').
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's energy policy is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle that is enshrined in the treaty of rome.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change, in particular the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and the implementation of the union's policy on climate change.
finally, the importance of having a common external energy policy which is perfectly coordinated and in tune with the common foreign and security policy.
‒ the so-called 'european energy union' is based on the privatisation and liberalisation of national energy sectors.
we are well aware of the consequences of the liberalization of this sector in the single market, with the creation of transnational monopolies that exploit the energy consumption markets and accumulate prodigious profits, while energy prices for consumers and for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises reach unbearable levels that increasingly limit the existing disparity in access to and prices for energy.
only a state-owned and managed public energy sector will ensure affordable energy prices for the population and the maintenance of sovereignty in the definition of national energy strategies.
the response to energy efficiency improvements, the diversification of sources, progress towards renewable energy, the appropriate use of each country's endogenous potential, security of supply, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, among others, require public, democratic planning and control of the energy sector, energy production and distribution.
‒ i voted in favour of the report 'towards a european energy union' because i consider that its current absence reflects the fragmentation of the union's energy markets and is extremely damaging to europe's competitiveness and security.
as such, i believe that the political and legislative package on which the creation of a european energy union is based will be important for the development of a european energy market, which will have as its central priorities the focus on renewable energy, the guarantee and diversification of the union's energy supply, the strengthening of energy sovereignty, the increase in energy efficiency and the progressive decarbonisation of the economy and social organisation models and the focus on innovation and research to put the union at the forefront of the energy transition.
however, for the eu to continue to lead the energy transition, it needs political intelligence, the mobilisation of citizens and businesses, regulatory flexibility, convergence of efforts among the 28 member states and the ability to attract investment.
only then will we be able to establish a robust and credible european energy market, which is less dependent, innovative and in line with the planet's sustainability challenges.
‒ the so-called 'european energy union' is a tailor-made project for the major european monopolies in the sector, and it is certainly not disproportionate to say that documents such as this report are, in fact, their specifications.
the energy sector is liberalised and privatised in the various member states, and then it is said that energy must be accessible to all and that energy poverty must be tackled.
the liberalization of this sector within the single market has led to the creation of transnational private monopolies which colonize markets and accumulate prodigious profits, while energy prices for consumers and micro, small and mediumsized enterprises reach unbearable levels.
the disparity in energy access and prices is growing.
‒ the existence of an internal market for the free movement of energy and the increase in renewable sources and energy and an optimal level of energy efficiency are key requirements for the eu to have a stable, secure, dependent energy system in the framework of a sustainable and future-oriented wealth-creating economy.
electricity interconnection is one of the essential preconditions for the completion of an integrated internal energy market which goes beyond any purely economic and geopolitical vision but is embodied in a strategic principle of a more resilient and robust network, environmentally friendly and able to cope with all types of disturbances.
i deplore the behaviour of some member states in pursuing these principles, blocking the interconnection of networks for reasons of protectionism on their market, thus creating energy islands, as in the case of the iberian peninsula, whose capacity with continental europe is too small and the current projects of common interest are not sufficient to achieve the interconnection target by 2020.
we are constantly witnessing the persistence of what is a market failure, and we have an obligation to engage politically in resolving it, without giving in to the vested interests which for years, or even decades, have prevented a proper integration of the energy market.
failure to do so would condemn several member states to their peripheral position, not only in energy terms but also economically.
portugal, which has been diligently implementing the eu energy guidelines, has borne and bears the heavy costs of this implementation, but still fails to see the benefits claimed, especially in the price of electricity it costs, which has a severe impact on households and businesses, especially smes.
it will be necessary to ensure that interconnections and market mechanisms do not render investment in renewable energy useless (the surpluses of french nuclear will certainly be more competitive) and that national consumers do not heavily subsidize these renewable energies in order to make them competitive on the european market.
‒ electricity interconnection is one of the essential preconditions for the completion of an integrated internal energy market.
i would also stress the important role that the iberian peninsula region can play in the establishment and creation of a genuine european energy union, particularly through the key role of the development of renewable energies.
‒ renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix lead to energy savings that improve the quality of life of citizens and the competitiveness of european businesses.
the free movement of energy and the future completion of the energy union are important means of ensuring that the eu has a stable, secure and independent energy system.
i am voting in favour of this report to safeguard the energy interconnections between the iberian peninsula and france, in order to support renewable energy in the region and to allow the iberian peninsula to participate fully in the internal electricity market.
i recall the madrid declaration signed on 4 march 2015 and the creation of a high level group for south-west europe on interconnections as important steps towards increasing the interconnection of the region and i urge the european authorities to decisively support this future energy interconnection, which is central to portugal's development.
i urge the countries of the region to support the development of their considerable renewable energy potential and to facilitate the sector's access to the integrated european market.
‒ like the resolution on the energy union, this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, is also intended to support a commission position - in this case, the position expressed in the commission communication entitled 'achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target - preparing the european electricity grid for 2020'.
like the rapporteur, i too believe that this interconnection target is an important step in the right direction, and a key step towards the completion of an integrated european energy market in the future.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's energy strategy, including the implementation of the eu's energy strategy, the implementation of the eu's energy strategy and the implementation of the eu's energy strategy.
‒ the main objective of an internal energy policy should be to contain the costs to the consumer by limiting unnecessary investment and subsidizing the various types of production.
it is essential that european energy policy in the near future contributes to correcting the distortions that have occurred.
‒ i voted in favour of the report achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target preparing the european electricity grid for 2020because i consider that electricity interconnection is one of the essential preconditions for the completion of an internal energy market, without which there can be no energy union.
the internal energy market will, i am sure, help the union to achieve its climate objectives, particularly in the field of renewable energy, and improve its geopolitical position through greater energy security and independence, helping to reduce the energy isolation of certain regions.
the 10% target for 2020 is a valid target and an important step in the right direction and could be used as a mandatory criterion for the validation of national energy programmes.
however, this is not an objective in itself appropriate to the actual situation of the 28 energy markets, and more efforts will be needed to assist those countries whose low level of interconnection limits the achievement of the internal electricity market, such as those in the iberian peninsula.
it will be necessary to ensure that interconnections and market mechanisms do not render investment in renewable energy useless (the surpluses of french nuclear will certainly be more competitive) and that national consumers do not heavily subsidize these renewable energies in order to make them competitive on the european market.
‒ we generally support proposals aimed at simplifying legislation, involving fishermen in the definition of fisheries policies, particularly at regional level, improving fishing gear by increasing its selectivity, and a sustainable approach to stock management.
the new common fisheries policy entered into force on 1 january 2014 following the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) presented in april 2009. the new cfp aims to ensure optimal exploitation of the species caught - at least at levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield (msy) - by implementing an ecosystem approach that ensures minimal negative impacts of fishing activity on the marine ecosystem itself.
we may not agree with some of the details in this report, but we are in complete agreement with the need to preserve the sustainability of fishermen, marine resources and marine ecosystems.
‒ we generally support proposals aimed at simplifying legislation, involving fishermen in the definition of fisheries policies, particularly at regional level, improving fishing gear by increasing its selectivity, and a sustainable approach to stock management.
madam president, commissioner, i welcome the agreement on global warming reached in paris, which limits global warming to two degrees with a view to not exceeding 1.5 degrees.
scientific data indicates that we need to decarbonise our economy as early as 2050, and yet quantitative targets for emissions reductions have been removed from the agreement.
it is also regrettable that no reference is made to the maritime and aviation sectors, whose emissions are expected to increase in the coming years.
i hope that each nation can now step up its national contribution to the immediate move away from coal-fired electricity generation and to the promotion of electric mobility and energy efficiency.
the fight against global warming is a race against time, and the paris treaty was just a starting gun.
this is what it's all about, gentlemen, business, not environmental goals!
we had to wait about 65 years when, for the first time, an oceanographer said that we were subjecting the planet to a geophysical experiment of releasing sequestered carbon, the results of which would be disastrous.
monitoring of the efforts of individual states to reduce greenhouse gases is essential.
let's not forget that there are still economic and corporate interests out there who see short-term opportunities in global warming.
by combating invasive species we are simultaneously protecting the native biodiversity of each member state.
it should be noted that the commission's initial list has been criticised by several national authorities and stakeholders, raising serious doubts as to the effectiveness of the ias regulation, mainly because many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not listed, while some species that are not likely to cause significant adverse impacts on biodiversity, human health or the economy are included.
in this way, we will be able to adopt specific uniform measures to minimise the adverse effects that these species may have on the preservation of european biodiversity and related ecosystem systems, as well as on the economy and human health.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation adopting a list of invasive alien species of union concern in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council (d041932/01 2015/3010 ((rsp)) mainly because i agree that the draft list proposed by the ec does not address the problem of invasive alien species in a comprehensive way, does not take care to protect native biodiversity and ecosystem services, and does not minimise and mitigate the impacts that these species may have on human health or the economy.
the european commission is asked to present, as promised by its president but not yet implemented, a new legislative proposal to amend the current legislative framework on gmos, which is considered to be insufficient to address concerns associated with food safety, public health and the environment.
because it is a question of the need to provide a high level of protection for human life and health, animal health and welfare, environmental protection itself and the need for consumers to be properly informed, and because there are still doubts about the safeguarding of these rights, i have decided to abstain.
‒ a few days after the european parliament's environment committee raised an objection to the authorisation of monsanto's genetically modified maize nk603xt25, the european commission, in the absence of consensus among member states, decides to authorise the placing on the market of this same gm maize.
i therefore consider that the commission implementing decision is not compatible with the purpose of the regulation to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests.
the european commission is asked to present, as promised by its president but not yet implemented, a new legislative proposal to amend the current legislative framework on gmos, which is considered to be insufficient to address concerns associated with food safety, public health and the environment.
the eu and china are engaged in a number of ongoing sectoral dialogues, including on environment, regional policy, employment and social affairs and civil society.
the identification of common interests such as global and regional security, the fight against terrorism, the fight against organised crime, cybersecurity, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development, adds enormous value to this strategic partnership.
the opportunities offered by this enhanced cooperation and dialogue - for example in the field of sustainable development and the circular economy - now offer new opportunities for european and chinese citizens and businesses to come closer together, and should not be missed.
since then, the conditions for humanitarian assistance have changed significantly, notably with a steady increase in the number, scale and persistence of humanitarian emergencies resulting from both man-made conflicts and natural disasters, and exacerbated by global issues such as climate change.
i also agree with the need to look at the issue of climate refugees, which is now the reason for the internal displacement of thousands of people.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a regulation should be amended to include a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the framework of the common fisheries policy.
- and the need to adapt it to new technological/environmental paradigms, with a view to its international reassertment.
a new impetus for industrial policy must continue the process of technological, energy and environmental modernisation, and to this end it must create more jobs and have the necessary instruments and means, which will not be possible without strategic public control of the base metal industries.
this report is in line with the union's objective of reindustrialising the european continent by promoting investment and creating a favourable and fair international environment.
this industry has to adapt to the union's climate and energy policies, but the union must also protect this market against dumping.
the price of energy, the relocation of industry, dumping and export subsidies by third countries are some of the threats to this sector.
‒ the metal industry is extremely important for the eu, as it is the basis for many other industries that have a strong impact on the european economy, such as automotive, aerospace, energy production and civil construction.
to ensure the competitiveness of the base metals industry, the report suggests that the eu should build on the redefinition of its current emissions trading system.
energy-intensive industry should reduce co2 emissions, allowing the eu to ensure industrial competitiveness while meeting its objectives.
supporting the base metal industry - which is so special and vulnerable to external competitiveness and to eu energy and environment policy - should have as its ultimate aim the fight against the increasing loss of competitiveness of various base material industries such as steel or aluminium.
this capacity adjustment has been so significant that any recovery in european demand will result in the creation of a historic trade deficit in europe, which in turn will lead to dependence and losses of industrial know-how that will not fail to have an impact on the downstream sectors of the automotive, construction and low-carbon technologies sectors.
any industrial policy that is implemented and that seeks to break with this situation of impoverishment and dependence will not be possible without a strategic public control of its base metal industries by creating all the necessary instruments and means to cope with an increase in the price of carbon and to draw up a strategy compatible with the environmental objectives that we have set ourselves to respect.
‒ i voted in favour of the report 'developing a sustainable european base metals industry' because i believe that europe, already dependent on raw materials, cannot allow a new dependence on base metals to develop, an industry which is currently facing a significant drop in demand and investment, driven mainly by energy prices and comparatively high carbon costs compared to third countries.
despite the difficult situation in which it finds itself, the base metals industry must at the same time pursue a policy of energy and environmental modernisation in accordance with existing european rules and equip itself with the necessary instruments to make this transition a success.
as such, to ensure the competitiveness of this industry, a reformulation of the current eu emissions trading system is urgently needed, complementing it with other energy and environmental innovative instruments and strategies for effective emission reduction, as well as a focus on the reuse of base metals and the development of a circular economy.
- and the need to adapt it to new technological/environmental paradigms, with a view to its international reassertment.
a new impetus for industrial policy must continue the process of technological, energy and environmental modernisation, and to do so it must create more jobs and have the necessary instruments and means, which will not be possible without strategic public control of the base metal industries.
mr president, what is at issue here is the privatization of biodiversity, the private appropriation of the genetic heritage of mankind, which has been built up over centuries of history by generations of farmers and breeders.
we insist that the genetic heritage of mankind, biodiversity, should be a public good.
the recent scandal involving volkswagen's tests of nitrogen oxide emissions from diesel engines has revealed a situation that is as regrettable as it is paradoxical.
recent data indicate a difference of up to 500% between the emissions of nitrogen oxides measured under laboratory conditions and under normal road conditions.
in a second phase, they will allow emissions above the standard by 50% by 2020 for new models and by 2021 for new vehicles.
the framework agreement addresses a number of issues, including european union policies on human rights, the international criminal court, weapons of mass destruction, small arms and light weapons and the fight against terrorism, thus strengthening bilateral cooperation in important sectors such as health, the environment, energy and education.
it seems to me therefore essential to support this agreement, which is intended not only to strengthen the strategic partnership between the eu and vietnam, following on from the 1995 framework cooperation agreement, but also to contribute to the development of a country which is on the path to sustainability by its own merits.
the agreement sets out the future relationship in a broader context with a view to further strengthening cooperation on global and regional challenges such as good governance and the fight against corruption, economic and social progress, sustainable development, disarmament, weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism.
with this non-legislative resolution on the global framework partnership agreement, which i voted in favour of, the european parliament wishes to underline that it will be very vigilant as the situation develops in a number of areas which we consider to be fundamental: beyond the eu's basic political clauses, in the context of the protection of human rights and the international criminal court, weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism, for example, but also in sectoral cooperation in a wide range of policy areas such as migration, environmental protection and education.
the park has unique habitats and is very rich in biodiversity.
the eu should do all it can to continue to support the government of the democratic republic of congo in providing the country with energy and economic alternatives to extractive industries, in combating poaching, illegal logging, illegal mining and corruption.
this resolution emphasizes the near-emergency situation of the preservation of biodiversity in this region, pointing out that such damage may be the result of oil exploration and exploitation and other illegal activities.
it is equally important that the eu supports the drc government in developing energy and economically sustainable alternatives to extractive industries and in combating corruption, poaching and illegal logging.
classified as a unesco world heritage site in 1979 and as a world heritage site in danger in 1994, it is the park with the greatest biodiversity on the african continent.