you said that you found that the european commission had lowered certain demands, you had only dealt with the environment - personnel, i think, and other demands that we as parliament had supported.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/18/ec as regards the possibility for the member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in their territory (10972/3/2014 – c8-0145/2014 – 2010/0208(cod)) (rapporteur: frédérique ries) (a8-0038/2014).
i think we have to think about a principle, and that is that economic development should not compromise on the environment and health.
in this context, i am convinced that only thorough research can provide adequate protection of the environment and the health of european citizens.
many european citizens are concerned about the as yet unknown environmental effects of gmos.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new initiative to promote the use of renewable energy sources.
genetically modified organisms (gmos) are a danger to the environment and human health.
i voted in favour of this recommendation because the agreement strengthens cooperation between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe with a view to establishing a sustainable fisheries policy and the rational exploitation of fisheries resources, in the interests of both parties.
at the same time, member states should be able to assess the risks and impact of gmos on citizens, the environment and animal health.
their long-term environmental impact is less well known, so i believe that the development of impact studies and the information derived from them should be made available to consumers.
i support this agreement because it will provide more flexibility for member states who want to restrict the cultivation of gmos on their territory for reasons of environmental protection, as well as urban or national planning, socioeconomic impact or agricultural policy objectives.
these technical sustainable exploitation measures based on the gfcm recommendations confirm the gfcm's main objective of maintaining a good ecological status of the mediterranean sea basin and are in line with the new common fisheries policy, which aims mainly to lay the foundations for economically, socially and environmentally sustainable fisheries.
energy security is a major issue.
the un climate change conference in paris next november is one of the most important of these.
this is because climate change threatens to undermine decades of development and puts future development trajectories at risk.
many of the main drivers behind poverty in developing countries are intertwined with climate change.
when dealing with the issue of development, we should strongly promote environmental initiatives, energy efficiency, exchange of technologies and best practices, investment in public education and in disaster risk reduction and, more generally, emphasise low carbon emission development.
developing countries will bear the brunt of the effects of climate change as they strive to overcome poverty and achieve economic growth.
i am convinced that europe must not only be at the forefront of traditional humanitarian aid, but also help these societies through the sustainable and integrated development of the developing world economy.
our efforts should go hand in hand with those aiming for the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
the purpose of the mission is closely to assess and report on the electoral process, including on the political environment and electoral campaign.
all parties to the conflict are called upon to make the only possible step for peace: that of freezing all military operations as proposed by un special representative leon in order to create an inclusive environment conducive to maximum restraint, national dialogue and reconciliation.
military confrontation will only escalate the current crisis, taking parties further away from a fair and sustainable political solution which respects ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.
i believe that the european union's top priority must be to ensure sustainable economic growth and quality jobs for its citizens.
europe needs a new sustainable model where economic, social and environmental progress is equally assured and mutually reinforced.
the post-crisis 'hangover' effect has led to a sharp decline in investment at eu level, which has contributed to a decline in confidence and created a relative uncertainty about the european economic climate.
more specifically, the statements of the european commissioners show that there is no mechanism by which the distribution of funds takes into account the diversity of the member states, their level of development, their capacity for co-financing or national rules on legislation, social protection or the environment.
we should also use this tool to support investment in novel and high-risk areas like green energy and the digital economy, where investment is truly needed and where we can have a strong impact in terms of the realisation of the eu 2020 strategy.
mr president, we are all aware of the fact that climate change is a reality.
around the world the impact of climate change is accelerating and the most vulnerable countries are already paying the higher price.
last september, the conclusions of the intergovernmental panel on climate change were published and the debate about human influence on the climate is now over: we are responsible for warming the earth.
we have never had a better opportunity than the upcoming summit to tackle the tremendous danger of climate change.
much has to be done in paris but if we are able to make the climate agreement a reality our generation will not be remembered as the one that destroyed the world but as the one that finally came to respect it.
– whilst the commission tries to reform the emissions trading scheme – which is probably the world’s most ambitious climate legislation – with its proposal for a market stability reserve after 2020, there have been some encouraging signs from international partners who have made further commitments to capping carbon emissions.
but reducing the output of co2 is only part of the solution in limiting global warming.
we also need an agreement to ensure the protection of forests and other natural carbon sinks, as this will be essential for both adaptation and mitigation.
i call on the eu negotiating team to prioritise this, and to ensure that international financing will be used to protect natural carbon sinks, which also provide essential eco-services such as water purification, air filtration, and flood defence.
mr president, as you know very well, the member states have set themselves targets for network interconnection, wanting a single market for energy in europe, and networks are the basis of this single market and the union's energy union, which is why the ppe group is calling for a resolution debate on this subject.
and i think it is good to wait for this plan, it will be discussed at the session on 25 february and we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss such an important subject in the whole of the european energy market.
another may be trying to avoid food brought from thousands of miles away because of the huge impact on the environment.
a 'one size fits all' approach, requiring mandatory labelling of the origin of meat used as an ingredient in processed foods would have severe negative consequences for food manufacturers, farmers, retailers and consumers, create significant supply chain problems, lead to possible disruption and major inefficiencies, with the potential to increase consumer prices and food waste.
origin labelling for foodstuffs with meat as an ingredient would answer concerns related to food quality, food safety, and animal welfare, but also economic and environmental concerns.
i do not think that closing borders is the solution, but opening up, but also developing common social and environmental norms.
a sustainable direction is represented by digital or sustainable development-related professions.
i would like to respond by saying that the commission has as its main objective growth and employment, prosperity and a stable business environment, as has been stated here.
at the same time, improving the business environment and avoiding additional bureaucratic burdens.
only a strategy which creates a virtuous circle, based on necessity and proportionality between the undertakings of the eu and the situation on the ground, can lead to a sustainable solution to the conflict.
cooperation between parties is vital if we are to achieve the objectives of the european development fund and ensure european policy coherence on political, economic and environmental issues.
on 25 april 2014, the negotiators initialled a new draft agreement and protocol which complies with the common fisheries policy (cfp) regulation for sustainable fisheries partnership agreements (sfps).
i support the conclusion by the council of the agreement and protocol ((12812/14 c8-0276/2014 senegal 2014/0238 ((nle)) aimed at creating a new framework for cooperation between the european union and the republic of senegal, which will ensure: reasonable economic conditions taking into account available fishing opportunities, a basis for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of the relevant fish stocks, adequate support and sufficient conditions for the local fisheries sector, and the opportunity to develop the local fishing industry in partnership with eu vessels and to supply the eu market with quality fishery products.
the protocol is in strict compliance with the principles of sustainability and good governance and will provide an opportunity to develop the local fishing industry in partnership with the eu vessels.
i voted in favour of this report today not because it is my report, but because this type of sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and third countries is a step forward.
these guidelines should be part of all future sustainable fisheries agreements between the eu and third countries, and i hope that this will happen.
the renewal of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement was therefore necessary.
the climate of impunity regarding the cia programme still represents a menace towards the values of justice, equity and dignity on which our societies are built.
i support the renewal of the igf's mandate by the un general assembly and the strengthening of its resources, as well as the need for a coordinated european position on internet governance, namely strengthening the sustainability of the multilateral model by making national, regional and international actors and processes more inclusive, transparent and accountable.
— cooperation between parties is vital to achieve the objectives of the european development fund and to ensure european policy coherence on political, economic and environmental issues.
the resolution also stresses the need to strengthen political dialogue and to continue post-cotonou the analysis of both positive and negative aspects of the sustainable socioeconomic development of the acp countries, so that no acp country is disadvantaged in this framework.
the immediate priority is indeed to provide assistance to refugees, but also to develop such a plan for a sustainable future in the region.
decisive actions are needed to improve fiscal sustainability and fight corruption in the public administration, in support of those most in need.
we should prioritise at eu and national level more investment in research into innovative therapies and find sustainable solutions for including innovative therapies in national healthcare plans, treatment pathways and funding streams.
the european union must act to protect the people of burundi, respect human rights, freedom of expression and maintain a stable climate in the region.
(the sitting was closed at 11.40 a.m.)
mr president, i would like to welcome the presence of vice-president šefčovič so soon after the adoption of the energy union strategy.
the energy union must have at its core an efficient, functioning and growth and jobs-creating internal energy market.
the 10% target, together with an ambitious legislative proposal to restructure the electricity market, will increase security of supply and ensure that the electricity market is better adapted to the energy transition.
i welcome the proposal to create regional operational centres for the efficient planning and management of cross-border electricity and gas flows and stress the need to develop regional energy infrastructure in vulnerable areas.
i regret, however, mr vice-president, that no european approach is being proposed to energy poverty.
the s&d group supports the coordination at european level of national action plans, scoreboards, exchanges of good practice and a horizontal approach to energy accessibility.
as part of the review of the energy efficiency and energy performance of buildings directives, energy poverty will also have to be considered a priority but unfortunately the commission does not mention the review of these directives or the legislation on ecodesign and energy labelling, which our group is calling for.
the revision of these directives will undoubtedly also contribute to improving energy efficiency targets, and the commission needs to ensure that the union speaks with one voice in negotiations with third countries on improving energy security.
mr president, this energy union package comes at the right time for addressing the current challenges we face of less security and less supply, and we should not transform this package into a redundant reiteration of all energy policies in place today.
energy capacity for the mediterranean countries and for south-eastern europe, as well as interconnecting landlocked countries in central europe to these new capacities, should be a priority for diversifying supply sources in these regions.
energy is indeed a priority for our union, and i certainly welcome the fact that the energy union is considered as a priority by the new commission.
i want to underline that it is absolutely necessary that our energy policy is well coordinated with our foreign and security policy, because – as events in ukraine are showing – energy security is directly linked to the eu’s security.
but we definitely need also to focus on what we already have: increased internal production, increased energy efficiency, and new and better inter-connected infrastructure.
from this point of view i think we need to make use of all available sources, including the connecting europe facility, to speed up the creation of a strategic trans-european network for energy, which will allow us better distribution of all types of energy and avoid bottlenecks.
energy union means common energy resources, interconnection of networks, strengthening of member states' negotiating capacity and, not least, reducing dependence on imports.
the european energy market is currently highly fragmented and its fragility is reflected in its inability to respond to external challenges.
i stress the importance of cross-border energy interconnections, which are intended to supply energy to neighbouring states and are a response to external blackmail.
the arad szeged pipeline with a two-way pumping capacity contributes to energy security at regional level.
investments in this area are urgently needed to ensure energy independence in union markets.
i welcome the adoption of the energy union strategy which will help to integrate the 28 energy markets into one.
i believe that this strategy will allow better access to financing instruments for energy efficiency in buildings and transport and will help local actors to implement the smart cities programme.
energy should be secure and sustainable, characterised by a higher level of competition and freedom of choice for each consumer.
the energy union strategic framework opens the debate on strengthening solidarity between member states on energy policy.
this laudable initiative, supported by the social democrat commissioner for the energy union, maroš šefčovič, once again highlights the need for a common reference framework not only in terms of prices and costs, but also in terms of what it means to work with suppliers or energy-producing countries.
more than ever, in the face of the challenges posed by the current gulf and eastern european context, member states need to act as one, including in negotiating the prices of imported energy.
only in this way can we ensure real cohesion within the union and avoid exposing certain countries, such as romania or poland, to additional financial or energy risks.
the energy union debate therefore also highlights the need for an energy policy that protects the most disadvantaged or middle-income or low-income consumers compared to the european average.
european energy policies need to avoid creating new inequalities and making certain groups feel even more excluded.
– interruptions in energy supplies in recent years have shown the potential vulnerability of member states relying heavily on energy imports from single sources and have highlighted problems with storage capacity in the event of crises.
the eu needs to urgently address these problems in order to create greater stability and better resistance to external shocks, and to better manage its own internal energy sources.
this would also help progress towards other important eu policy objectives, such as increasing the integration of renewable energy sources into the energy mix and increasing energy independence.
the fact that europe needs a european energy union is already a reality, supported by member states.
the fact that europe does not yet have a european energy union is also a reality, the cause of which lies in the member states.
first, some member states are ensuring their energy security through individual actions and do not support european projects that increase europe's energy independence and strengthen its energy security.
thirdly, member states have energy strategies which differ greatly in the directions of development.
it is time for member states to take concrete action to ensure that the european commission's new energy union initiative does not go to waste.
the development of a common energy strategy for the eu member states shows that the eu is taking concrete steps on a highly pressing issue that has been geopolitically exploited by russia for years.
in addition to the individual efforts of the 28 member states to reduce their energy dependence on russian gas imports, it is welcome that the european commission has taken the initiative to develop such an energy strategy.
the european union is the world's largest energy importer, according to statistics, with more than half of what it uses coming from imports worth over €400 billion.
it is clear that we need to reconfigure our energy relationship with russia so that we have a level playing field, fair competition and security.
i therefore believe that clear rules on the control, prohibition and substitution of endocrine disruptors with certain substances considered safe are necessary to strike the perfect balance between ensuring the continued protection of human health and the environment and at the same time providing farmers with the plant protection products they need.
the latest technological developments in truck design will allow us to have state-of-the-art vehicles with alternative propulsion systems, improved aerodynamics, low energy consumption and contributing to improved road safety.
a well-developed infrastructure, together with the commercial vehicle sector, can play a very important role in accelerating intermodal transport and in achieving the objectives of the white paper on the most efficient use of transport and the reduction of carbon emissions.
to achieve this, europe needs to take risks to encourage project promoters to launch long-term investments in infrastructure, such as transport, communications, energy or education, in real estate assets, social infrastructure, innovation and climate protection.
long—term finance is a crucial tool for putting the european economy on the right path of sustainable growth in accordance with the eu 2020 strategy, to promote high employment and competitiveness.
the stability of the european economic climate is an essential condition for attracting private capital to public projects.
i am convinced that long-term investment will deliver measurable results in smart growth by supporting the digital economy and creating integrated networks in the single market, in increasing employment by facilitating the mobility of citizens and businesses, and in sustainable development by unlocking the potential of the green economy.
zaklady chemiczne zachem was a polish chemical producer producing semi-finished and finished chemicals for the chemical industry, paper industry, energy sector, etc.
‒ solar energy, one of the most effective solutions to combat global warming, is being compromised at european level by the effects of the economic crisis.
and also, solar energy produces clean electricity, and i think the money invested in solar can create more jobs than coal or natural gas.
‒ the deployment of eur 1 094 760 by the european globalisation adjustment fund will enable assistance in looking for jobs, professional training, support in the creation of enterprises and other programmes for 476 german employees who have been made redundant by aleo solar, a company in the renewable energy sector.
as this is the fifth egf application in the steel sector, as r&d coordinator for industry, research and energy i support the need for a union strategy in the field of base metal processing.
the competitiveness of the union steel industry was affected by the decreasing demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu as a consequence of the economic crisis and the relative increase in production costs (raw materials, energy, environmental requirements, etc.).
as s&d coordinator for industry, research and energy, i stress the need for a union strategy on european industry.
today 26 % of co2 emissions from road transport in europe come from this kind of heavy vehicle.
a further spread of such means would have dangerous repercussions on pollution.
‒ the use of long-term european investment funds is one of the main drivers of sustainable growth in the european economy and also creates the conditions for building the economy of the future in a way that is more resilient to the risks of future economic and financial crises.
‒ i believe that long-term financing is an important tool for putting the european economy on the path to sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, for better competitiveness and employment and for building the economy of tomorrow so that it is less prone to systemic risks and more resilient.
long-term finance is a crucial tool for putting the european economy on the right path of sustainable growth in accordance with the europe 2020 strategy to promote high employment and competitiveness.
‒ the issue of interbank fees has been on the ep's agenda since 2013. it is time to make an informed decision on how to reduce the costs for european consumers who waste over eur 6 billion each year on uncontrolled interbank fees.
it is our duty to protect european consumers of banking products and services and to ensure a transparent environment, clear and predictable costs and fairness in their dealings with credit institutions and merchants.
the european central bank should take into account in its enlargement policy the balance of bond purchases for eib projects, which finance some of the most productive investments in the euro area, in particular those projects identified by the commission as having european added value following a cost-benefit analysis, notably the ten-t project in the field of energy and transport and projects related to the digital single market, but also ensure that its policies are better adapted to the real economy, in particular as regards smes.
the ecb’s actions prevented the collapse of the banking system and developed a climate of confidence in international markets with the consequent lowering of the cost of funding for the euro area.
the resolution calls on the european central bank to continue its efforts and actions to date and to work with other relevant institutions at union level to ensure sustainable structural reform, ensure a level playing field for financial services and end subsidies for the commercial activities of large financial institutions.
firstly, it is a crucial time to secure sustainability of growth in europe.
more efforts need to be made to strengthen the rule of law and the judiciary to combat corruption and organised crime, to reduce unemployment, enact structural economic reforms and promote sustainable development.
europe must implement a responsible policy focused on investment and quality jobs to ensure sustainable growth and to leave the future generation with jobs and not debt.
we must not forget that poverty reduction is not only one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, but also a social responsibility for the member states, and that the creation of decent and sustainable jobs is the best way out of poverty.
the current report calls on the eu to shift its policies in the areas of employment and social policy towards growth-led policies which focus on the creation of quality jobs in europe in sustainable industries.
i voted in favour of this recommendation to establish a general fisheries commission for the mediterranean because the new agreement sets a clear overall objective, which is the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of living marine resources.
in this context, the new agreement integrates the core elements of the common fisheries policy with regard to the objective of maximum sustainable yield, the ecosystem, as well as the objective of the precautionary approach, reducing discards, combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
‒ having regard to the mutual interest in the development and appropriate use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and black seas, and convinced that the conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources in the area of application and the protection of marine ecosystems in which these resources are found play an important role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development.
‒ considering the mutual interest in the development and the proper utilisation of the living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea and convinced that the conservation and sustainable use of the living marine resources in the area of application and the protection of the marine ecosystems in which those resources occur plays a major role in the context of blue growth and sustainable development, i approved the conclusion of the present modified agreement in the plenary.
a first amendment to this agreement after the eu's accession to it occurred in 2013 and the cgpm contracting parties signed this amended document at the 38th annual session of the cgpm in 2014. i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the main changes contained in the amended agreement, including: 1. increasing the biological, social, economic and environmental sustainability of marine living resources; 2. more precisely defining the functions of the gfcm; 3. providing for various sanctions in the event of its members' non-compliance with the rules laid down in the agreement; and 4. establishing mechanisms for the settlement of disputes between its members.
the gfcm is a regional organisation whose objective is to manage fisheries and marine resources in a sustainable and rational way and to develop aquaculture in the black sea and the mediterranean sea.
the establishment of the 2016 budget will re-launch three major objectives: 'increase employment, develop businesses and entrepreneurship, for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union'.
this resolution wishes to emphasise that montenegro has made progress in implementing reforms that guarantee the independence and efficiency of the judiciary, but also underlines that there is a polarised domestic political climate.
more efforts need to be made to strengthen the rule of law and the judiciary to combat corruption and organised crime, to reduce unemployment, enact structural economic reforms and promote sustainable development.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that boosting investment is the key to economic recovery and restoring confidence would help to strengthen a more attractive economic climate for investors.
i believe that it is necessary to ensure that short-term and long-term policies are mutually reinforcing and i also believe that reforms are needed to facilitate a new entrepreneurial environment, to stimulate the creation of new businesses and to make new investments and innovations, the returns on investment that could be made being a vital factor in attracting financial capital to the european economy.
it calls for the european union to shift its policies in this area towards growth-led policies which focus on the creation of quality jobs in europe in sustainable industries.
the commission's policy on the environment is based on the principle of sustainable development, which is the basis for the eu's policy on the environment.
the commission's policy on the environment is based on the principle of sustainable development.
the eu's choice to respond to the crisis and lack of productivity by cutting costs has moved us further away from the europe 2020 goals of building economies on sustainable, sustainable foundations with investments that create quality jobs.
europe 2020 is the eu's strategy to boost sustainable growth and job creation, and the single market has a key role to play in this process.
‒ this report stresses the need to consolidate single market governance by establishing an annual single market governance cycle as a specific pillar of the european semester, with the aim of revitalising the european economy through a well functioning, deeper and fairer single market capable of boosting sustainable growth, quality jobs, competitiveness and social cohesion, attracting investment and strengthening the european industrial base.
the free movement of goods, services, public procurement and concessions, the digital single market, consumer protection legislation (the acquis), but also energy and transport are key areas to be exploited because, by developing them, the single market will also become more efficient and globally competitive.
sustained efforts by all member states are therefore needed to overcome this difficult period and to ensure a sustainable economic recovery of the union.
i support this resolution and categorically oppose any abuse against minors in the virtual environment!
mr brok’s report starts correctly with a thorough analysis of the current strategic environment, noting that our neighbourhood – both east and south – is in turmoil, while the eu has become inward—looking.
under the new circumstances created by the illegal annexation of crimea and the subsequent destabilisation of ukraine, relations with russia, including in the energy sector, require a revisitation.
the cohesion of our union is essential: it implies close coordination and cooperation between trade agreements and the provision of energy resources, on the one hand, and the objectives of foreign, security and defence policy, on the other.
it is also time to be tough and united on russia, to condemn without hesitation the russian-led and supported war in eastern ukraine, to react to russian propaganda and to use this moment to take all necessary measures to ensure energy security.
on the eradication of forced child labour, i welcome the progress made and stress that it is our role as members of the european parliament to continue to promote at union level an environment conducive to the prevention and elimination of this practice.
however, expectations are extremely high and the eu should not disappoint knowing that all remains to be done and depends first of all on the malians themselves in a complex regional environment.
the problem of the sea bass, as put forward in the resolution by our colleague alain cadec, is indeed an early warning about the sustainability of multiannual plans.
i understand the appeal of this species to the entire fishing industry, to the artisanal fisheries, to the sport fisheries, and i think we need to ensure a balance between the sustainability of resources, of stocks, and the need for fishing, which brings us so many jobs.
however, this prohibition, which will be in force until 30 april 2015, does not, in my view, resolve the issue of the sustainability of the multiannual plans.
as regards technical measures to reduce the stock of bluefin tuna to a sustainable level, in addition to regional multiannual plans, which i consider to be a good solution for the correct management of resources in the medium term, i believe that we must also consider sport fishing.
not only are assyrian christian and yazidi people targeted as populations, but also by means of their built environment and heritage.
not only should we strongly condemn such acts, we should also make maximal use of all the tools the eu has at its disposal to prevent such measures before they take place, and especially the eu development financing, which should be fully linked to respect for human rights and cultural and environmental preservation principles.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the sustainable exploitation of the sea bass because, despite the measures taken previously by the commission, recent studies show that the status of the sea bass stocks is worrying and their mortality remains very high, given that the sea bass is a very slow-growing species that takes a long time to reproduce.
it is proposed to develop a multiannual management plan for the red seabream to bring stocks back above maximum sustainable yield, and to introduce eu-wide measures on recreational fishing by setting quantitative limits at a later stage.
support the eu's promotion of the universality and indivisibility of human rights, including civil and political, economic, social and cultural rights, in accordance with article 21 of the treaty of lisbon and the general provisions on the union's external action, as well as the eu's priorities for the un human rights council on: civil and political rights, social and economic rights, business and human rights, women's and children's rights, climate change and human rights, international cultural and sporting events and human rights, the fight against impunity and the international criminal court (icc), as well as the eu's priorities on country-specific issues (ukraine, iran, democratic people's republic of korea, myanmar/burma, bahrain, belarus, south sudan, mali, egypt, palestine, sri lanka, iraq/israel, syria).
it is important that all states support civil society and human rights defenders and allow them to operate in a normal climate, free from fear, repression or intimidation.
mr president, the energy union must have at its core an efficient and functioning internal energy market, which ensures economic growth and jobs, affordable and competitive prices for individual and industrial consumers, and the protection of vulnerable consumers.
i believe that important steps have been taken by the council to integrate energy efficiency across the five dimensions, but what is really missing in the council's approach is the issue of energy poverty.
the commission wants to eliminate regulated prices, but this measure, in the absence of immediate and concrete action to support those affected by energy poverty, that is 50 million people, could lead to a disastrous situation.
since we are talking about the creation of a common energy market, i would like to ask whether the creation of an energy dispatch office, which is indispensable, in my view, for the effective functioning of a single energy market in the european union, is also envisaged.
and last but not least, i welcome the fact that all proposals for the creation of the energy union have as their main objective the reduction of energy prices and we will support all these measures.
mr president, i sense a strong commitment for the energy union reflected by the council conclusions.
what lags behind, in my opinion, is changing the way our consumers access and perceive energy.
security and solidarity, once reached, must be followed immediately by functioning markets, otherwise we will keep our citizens tied to the paradigm of energy as a fixed price public service instead of a commodity.
the european council of 19-20 march 2015 addressed a number of issues, including the issue of a common energy policy.
such a common energy policy should include the following elements:- a negotiated common import tariff for gas, oil and other energy sources imported by member states outside the european area.
this will lead to a reduction in the unequal treatment of eastern european countries, which pay up to 7 times the price of imported energy resources.
subsidising access to energy for people with low incomes and implementing a common and negotiated timetable for the evolution of applied tariffs must therefore become a european priority, in order to avoid creating new means of excluding groups or regions from the benefits of a common market that is - hopefully - fairer and greener.
i therefore support the initiatives taken by the european commission and the european council and hope that these energy market balancing measures will be implemented as soon as possible.
and finally, we need to put taxation at the service of the political priorities of the union, whether it is the digital single market - the commission was talking about this morning - or the energy union.
i want to create an economic environment and a market harmonized under the european principles and legislation that we have all committed ourselves to uphold.
the overall climate has triggered a negative spiral with economic recession, capital flight, sharp depreciation of the currency, depletion of international reserves and loss of access to international debt markets being only some, and significantly not all, of the devastating consequences.
there is no time to waste after today's adoption of the revision so that implementation can move forward at full speed.
the new cohesion policy provides support to new innovative businesses, supports small and medium-size enterprises, creates sustainable jobs, improves skills, combats poverty, promotes social inclusion, gives remote regions broadband, tackles the brain drain, improves the environment, promotes energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy resources, builds vital transport links and strengthens the efficiency of public administrations.
we will thus be able to help overcome the deep moral and trust crisis that is engulfing our societies, and to rediscover the energy needed to build the common european home.
member states and the commission need to strengthen their cooperation, because people with disabilities have the right to work in a normal environment without any discrimination against them, including at the level of the european institutions, which must set an example in applying existing provisions in this area.
the new cohesion policy provides support to new innovative business, supports smes, creates sustainable jobs, improves skills, combats poverty, promotes social inclusion, gives remote regions broadband, tackles the brain drain, improves the environment, promotes energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy resources, builds vital transport links and strengthens efficiency of public administrations.
through the bangladesh sustainability compact, the eu, the us, the government of bangladesh and the international labour organisation, referred to as the ‘compact partners’, have pledged their engagement to improve labour rights and working conditions in the bangladesh garment and knitwear industry.
it is important that the experience gained by the government from working with stakeholders on compensation contributes to ensuring that ultimately a sustainable system for insurance and compensation can be established in bangladesh in the future.
the objective of the landing obligation is undoubtedly a generous one - sustainable fishing, management of marine resources, reduction of mortality among these resources; all these are added values of the new fisheries policy.
the fact that this landing obligation is coming into force in stages gives it a chance to be sustainable and applied correctly because, in our view, the success of the fisheries policy depends to a large extent on the landing obligation, on how it will be implemented.
the population, and in particular the young population, is the central element in defining and structuring any strategy for sustainable socioeconomic development.
i believe that the european union must act to support, coordinate and complement the member states' forest policy actions around the objective of ensuring the sustainable development of the forest sector and to raise the quality of life of european citizens by enhancing all the goods and services that forests provide in the economic, social, cultural and environmental fields.
i also believe that any reform of eu forest policies must not be limited to the challenges of climate change, but must also take into account all aspects of the contribution of forests to sustainable development at regional, european and international level.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, in your speech you said that if this proposal were to be voted on, it would create competition for those who produce energy, for example, from wood pulp.
we have to keep in mind that the energy mix is extremely important, and we have to see what we can do about the effects on citizens, the cost of energy, but also the right to a clean environment.
in writing.– the agreement this week sends a clear message from the european parliament; we need to limit the use of first-generation biofuels and move towards more sustainable alternatives which put less pressure on the environment, food prices, and food security.
using existing agricultural land for first-generation biofuels, and clearing natural carbon sinks such as ancient forests, actually contribute to the environmental problems which biofuels were supposed to help solve.
the use of sustainability criteria should drive the development of more advanced biofuels, ones which are fully compatible with environmental objectives and not in direct competition with food crops.
member of the commission.– mr president, we are here today to finalise the last stage of the legislative process of adopting a directive that aims to tackle a very serious and highly visible environmental problem: the overconsumption and littering of lightweight plastic carrier bags.
these bags, as was already mentioned, easily escape waste management streams and accumulate in our environment, often in the form of marine litter.
once discarded, they can last for hundreds of years, often as harmful microscopic particles that threaten the environment worldwide, especially the marine environment in terms of marine litter.
we need to tackle the problem of marine pollution, which is to a great extent caused by plastic waste, and we need to save resources and move to a circular economy.
an early second reading agreement on amending the packaging and packaging waste directive to reduce the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags can be formalised today.
let me particularly express my gratitude to the rapporteur, margarete auken, for her dedicated and thorough work on the commission’s proposal, as well as to the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing.– plastic bags have a negative impact on the environment and human health.
on the other hand, the consumers have to be aware how their specific behaviour impacts on the environment and public health before they decide to use or not plastic bags.
do you not think it is time for the european union to add this important issue to the negotiations taking place before the climate change summit, and for this important issue to be then addressed at the summit in paris next year?
the objective of the convention is to ensure that fishing vessel personnel have the necessary qualifications to mitigate potential risks to the safety of persons and/or property at sea or risks to the marine environment during operations on board seagoing vessels.
‒ reducing the greenhouse gas intensity of fuels used in road transport and non-road mobile machinery by 6% by 2020 is an ambitious target of the european commission.
one of the objectives set out in the sixth community environment action programme, established by decision no 1600/2002/ec of 22 july 2002 (4), is to achieve levels of air quality that do not have a significant negative impact on human health and the environment.
i voted in favour of this directive because it would further reduce the national permitted levels of emissions of the main pollutants of the member states, as well as the emissions associated with refuelling motor vehicles at petrol stations and would address the sulphur content of fuels.
‒ i appreciate and consider it important that the report includes the latest available information to assess the modelling of greenhouse gas emissions linked to indirect land use change and associated with the production of biofuels and bioliquids, including the measurement of trends in agricultural yield and productivity, co-product allocation and observed global rates of land use change and deforestation, as well as the possible impact of union policies such as climate, environment and agricultural policies, involving stakeholders in this analysis process.
‒ the fuel quality directive and renewable energy directive (red) aim at limiting the contribution of conventional biofuels towards the attainment of targets in the red, improving greenhouse gas (ghg) performance of biofuel production processes, encouraging greater market penetration by advanced biofuels and reporting the estimated indirect land use change (iluc) emissions.
i supported the adoption of the report in the plenary because i believe it is fundamental to move towards advanced biofuels that deliver real benefits for the climate while avoiding competition with food production.
‒ one of the objectives of directive 2009/28/ec of the european parliament and of the council is that each member state must ensure that the share of energy from renewable sources used in all means of transport will be at least 10% of the final consumption of energy in the transport sector in that member state by 2020. i voted for this report because the amendments introduced aim to achieve this objective, as well as other important and very necessary objectives, including the encouragement of research and development in the new advanced biofuel production sectors.
‒ i voted in favour of this report and welcome the work done by the rapporteur, as i believe no effort should be spared in our attempts to improve fuel quality with a view to increasing the use of renewable, green and sustainable energy sources.
we could indeed promote even more the development and production of biofuels, and i believe that the short-term costs of implementing directives like this one, of adapting the car manufacturing industry to the new fuels, will be easier to bear than the long-term immense environmental costs associated with pollution and loss of sources for current conventional fuels.
the final document is not what the european parliament wanted at first reading, but it clarifies some uncertainties and sets a roadmap in quantifying the real impact of iluc on greenhouse gas emission reductions from first generation biofuels.
the imposition of a 7% cap on first generation biofuels will allow us to redirect investments to advanced, so-called sustainable biofuels without jeopardising investments already made in the first generation sector.
we do not yet have a scientific method for determining the factor - therefore, i believe that the agreement reached on its monitoring and reporting will provide us with the data needed to introduce this factor into the sustainability criterion.
‒ reducing the consumption of plastic bags for transport, along with packaging and packaging waste, must be an immediate concern for all those responsible for protecting the environment.
given that it can take several hundred years for a plastic packaging to decompose, it is more than worrying that over 8 billion bags become waste in europe every year.
it supported binding targets to achieve a 50% reduction in consumption of plastic bags within three years and an 80% reduction within five years as compared to the average eu consumption in 2010. considering the fact that discarded plastic bags cause serious damage to the environment, not to mention the harm being done by marine litter to biodiversity, i strongly support parliamentʼs recommendation.
the problem can be easily and efficiently addressed as already proved in some member states; putting a charge on the use of plastic bags is a quick and sustainable way of reducing the problem overnight.
‒ the european commission's objective for this directive is to limit negative environmental effects, especially in terms of waste generation, to encourage waste prevention and more efficient use of resources, while limiting negative socioeconomic effects.
i voted in favour of this report because it meets the objectives of the european commission's proposal, which is essential to improve the environment and the quality of life of citizens.
we should actively promote people to reuse bags, to use recyclable and biodegradable materials and to make an effort, over a small immediate personal comfort, for the protection of our environment.
‒ all the studies carried out by european and global institutions over the last 30 years, unanimously acknowledged in the global work to reduce the widespread use of plastic, show that the environment is irretrievably poisoned by the indiscriminate use of this material.
the legislative changes on the use of plastic bags are in line with all sustainable development programmes adopted both at european level and by the governments of the european union member states.
in practice, in terms of waste legislation, we will for the first time have eu-wide binding measures on waste generation and management.
i believe that romania has a direct interest in the introduction of mandatory measures at eu level that will have positive effects in our waste management system.
‒ maritime shipping remains the only means of transportation which is not included in the european union’s action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
at eu level, the international maritime sector today accounts for around 3% of global greenhouse gas emissions and these are expected to increase significantly in the future.
the main objective of this regulation is to establish a european monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) system for co2 emissions from ships as the first step in a staged approach to reducing these emissions.
an eu-wide system for the mrv of greenhouse gas emissions from shipping is necessary in order to improve the information about ship efficiency and emissions from the sector, and encourage reducing emissions and fuel consumption.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec, as it introduces a much-needed system for monitoring, reporting and verifying carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
it aims to ensure sustainable exploitation of stocks of cod, herring and sprat, and provide stability for fishing opportunities, while ensuring that management is based on the most up-to-date scientific information on interactions within and between the stocks and with other aspects of the ecosystem and environment.
i support the adoption of the report, as it is in line with the objectives of the cfp to ensure environmental, economic and social sustainability and respect the precautionary and ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management.
i voted for this report on the ep and council regulation because it introduces a series of amendments aimed at restoring, reaching and maintaining the populations of the species concerned above levels which allow maximum sustainable yields for those stocks to be achieved.
at the same time, i consider these measures to be essential for the protection of the marine ecosystem.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation of the union's policy on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation of the union's policy on the environment.
welcomes the adoption of the report by mr bogdan wenta, and agrees with his view that, in order to fully exploit its cultural and economic potential, the european film industry must develop in an appropriate environment, stimulated by a stable and adaptable legal framework, which encourages investment and diversity and allows the development of new online services.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new eu strategy on forests and the forestry sector because i believe that forests and forestry are a good solution for an additional economic pillar and are also the best guarantors of quality of life, sustainability, jobs and value creation.
the eu strategy aims to further strengthen the social, economic and ecological role of forests and the forestry sector and to put wood at the forefront as a sustainable raw material, considered an important resource for europe.
‒ i believe that the eu forest strategy must focus on sustainable management of forests and their multifunctional role from an economic, social and economic perspective and must ensure better coordination and communication of european policies that directly or indirectly target forestry.
‒ i welcome the very positive aspects that have been introduced in the report and especially the more holistic approach from the committee on agriculture and rural development on the subject, with more stress on long-term sustainability, resource-efficient use, a multifunctional approach in forest management and future challenges because of wood scarcity and threats from climate change, emphasis on the pan-european forest agreement and an action plan with specific measures and funding.
i appreciate therefore the introduction of very important issues such as employment in the sector and the sustainable use of forest resources.
the report sets out a series of measures that complement the commission's efforts to boost employment and wealth in the european forestry sector in a sustainable way.
‒ i voted in favour of this text as it is a much-needed first step towards a more cohesive approach between eu member states to the preservation, development and sustainable use of their forestry resources.
my country, romania, is the country with the richest forests in the eu and i believe they represent a huge economic potential, in terms of sustainable tourism and recreation, of high-quality timber production.
more should be done to not only protect but increase europe’s forest, and we must remember that this resource can have a direct impact on other fields as well, including co2 emissions on a continent-wide basis.
forests play an important role, both economically and in protecting the environment, by absorbing carbon dioxide.
the vote will take place on wednesday, 29 april 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on the 2013 discharge (52 reports)– the report by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii – commission and executive agencies (com(2014)0510 – c8—0140/2014 – 2014/2075(dec)) (a8—0101/2015),– the report by ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the court of auditors’ special reports in the context of the 2013 commission discharge (com(2013)0570 – c8-0224/2014 – 2014/2140(dec)) (a8-0067/2015),– the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0487 – c8—0146/2014 – 2014/2077(dec)) (a8—0102/2015),– the report by gilles pargneaux, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section i – european parliament (com(2014)0510 – c8—0147/2014 – 2014/2078(dec)) (a8—0082/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii – european council and council (com(2014)0510 – c8—0148/2014 – 2014/2079(dec)) (a—0116/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section x – european external action service (com(2014)0510 – c8—0155/2014 – 2014/2086(dec)) (a8—0109/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iv – court of justice (com(2014)0510 – c8—0149/2014 – 2014/2080(dec)) (a8—0111/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section v – court of auditors (com(2014)0510 – c8-0150/2014 – 2014/2081(dec)) (a8—0113/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vi – european economic and social committee (com(2014)0510 – c8—0151/2014 – 2014/2082(dec)) (a8—0114/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section vii - committee of the regions (com(2014)0510 – c8—0152/2014 – 2014/2083(dec)) (a8—0105/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section viii – european ombudsman (com(2014)0510 – c8—0153/2014 – 2014/2084(dec)) (a8—0115/2015), – the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ix – european data protection supervisor (com(2014)0510 – c8—0154/2014 – 2014/2085(dec)) (a8—0118/2015), – the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2013: performance, financial management and control (com(2013)0570 – c8—0225/2014 – 2014/2139(dec)) (a8—0070/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0199/2014 – 2014/2123(dec)) (a8—0117/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0200/2014 – 2014/2124(dec)) (a8—0081/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0177/2014 – 2014/2101(dec)) (a8—0084/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0156/2014 – 2014/2087(dec)) (a8—0079/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0188/2014 – 2014/2112(dec)) (a8—0086/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0182/2014 – 2014/2106(dec)) (a8—0074/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0202/2014 – 2014/2126(dec)) (a8—0085/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0196/2014 – 2014/2120(dec)) (a8—0072/2015), – the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0185/2014 – 2014/2109(dec)) (a8—0069/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0192/2014 – 2014/2116(dec)) (a8—0073/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0175/2014 – 2014/2099(dec)) (a8-0083/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0191/2014 – 2014/2115(dec)) (a8—0100/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 -–c8—0184/2014 – 2014/2108(dec)) (a8—0097/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0195/2014 – 2014/2119(dec)) (a8—0098/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8-0197/2014 – 2014/2121(dec)) (a8—0096/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8-0201/2014 – 2014/2125(dec)) (a8—0077/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0178/2014 – 2014/2102(dec)) (a8—0075/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0159/2014 – 2014/2090(dec)) (a8—0068/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0181/2014 – 2014/2105(dec)) (a8–0088/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0186/2014 – 2014/2110(dec)) (a8—0089/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0187/2014 – 2014/2111(dec)) (a8—0078/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0198/2014 – 2014/2122(dec)) (a8—0087/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0180/2014 – 2014/2104(dec)) (a8—0090/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the οperational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0204/2014 – 2014/2128(dec)) (a8—0099/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0176/2014 – 2014/2100(dec)) (a8—0076/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0193/2014 – 2014/2117(dec)) (a8—0119/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0157/2014 – 2014/2088(dec)) (a8—0092/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8-0179/2014 – 2014/2103(dec)) (a8—0091/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0194/2014 – 2014/2118(dec)) (a8—0080/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect in the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0158/2014 – 2014/2089(dec)) (a8-0093/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0189/2014 – 2014/2113(dec)) (a8—0094/2015),– the report ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0190/2014 – 2014/2114(dec)) (a8—0095/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0208/2014 – 2014/2132(dec)) (a8—0103/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0207/2014 – 2014/2131(dec)) (a8-0107/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0211/2014 – 2014/2135(dec)) (a8—0104/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8-0210/2014 – 2014/2134(dec)) (a8—0112/2015),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0209/2014 – 2014/2133(dec)) (a8—0106/2015),– the report by anders primdahl vistisen, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0205/2014 – 2014/2129(dec)) (a8—0108/2015),– the report by anders primdahl vistisen, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2013 (com(2014)0510 – c8—0206/2014 – 2014/2130(dec)) (a8—0110/2015).
i hope that the replacement of the iter and f4energy directors will lead to very close collaboration and lead iter towards the achievement of its proposed objectives.
these categories include aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, aid for research, development and innovation, environmental protection, infrastructure, employment and training, sport, and aid which complies with the regional aid map approved by the commission for each member state.
to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
‒ the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer) has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
‒ the european environment agency has vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies on the matter.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2013, given the great importance of informing eu citizens about the use of the eu budget, to which they also contribute by default.
the position of the epp and ecr groups of maintaining the status quo was no longer sustainable.
we have always been at the forefront in our commitment and support to consolidate democracy, promote good governance, strengthen key institutions and help the maldives to address social, environmental and transnational challenges.
the success of the reform process depends on the existence of a democratic political environment.
to secure the sustainability of the integration process, all political parties need to cooperate and work constructively together.
in this context, commissioner hahn recalled that the government and the opposition need to work together to ensure a sustainable reform process.
we expect that albania will continue to deliver sustainable and solid reforms so that it can move forward on its eu integration path.
the fact is that it is no use having ambitious sustainable development goals if we do not give ourselves the financial means to achieve them.
i would like to stress that it is not only the level of our commitment to public development aid that will ensure the success of the sustainable development goals, but also our ability to find new innovative sources of funding and to better involve the private sector in this effort.
it helps us reach sustainable growth, improve our economy and make it more competitive, more crisis-resilient, knowledge-driven, and of course it is a tool for improving infrastructure in europe.
it is indeed necessary to strike a new balance between better evaluation and the best possible investment, and to steer the economy towards a path of sustainable growth and a job-rich recovery.
the investment projects of the eib need to be increasingly aimed towards sustainable energy and climate change, as well as infrastructural investments which are important for jobs and growth.
resources are limited and climate change is taking its toll.
the agricultural sector will have to meet the growing need of the population to be supplied with safe and sufficient food in a sustainable way.
the 2015 milan expo is a good opportunity for the european union to continue the process of raising public awareness of the need to be constantly concerned about food security, food production and distribution, but above all about preventing food waste, all with the main objective of combating malnutrition.
i believe that in the upcoming decades we will have to deliver a global strategy that must include sustainability in farming systems and in global food production through sustainable small-scale farming, organic, high-nature value or tree-based agriculture, as well as better resource efficiency and increased crop diversity.
the european executive needs to continue to actively promote the obligation of responsible business conduct among eu companies operating abroad, with a particular focus on ensuring strict compliance with international standards and norms in the areas of human rights, labour and the environment.
i believe that the bangladesh sustainability compact is a fundamental step towards improved labour rights, working conditions and factory safety.
in commemoration of the anniversary of the tragedy it is important that we remember the victims and extend our deepest condolences to their families, with the hope that the sustainability compact will prevent any repeat of these dreadful events.
‒ the european parliament, together with the government of bangladesh, launched on 8 july 2013 the 'sustainability pact for the continuous improvement of workers' rights and safety in the garment and knitwear factories in bangladesh' (the 'sustainability pact'), whereby bangladesh committed itself to take action to improve labour standards and working conditions in the garment sector on its territory.
i voted for the resolution tabled on the basis of the commission statement on the commemoration of the victims of the rana plaza and tazreen garment factory fires in bangladesh and on the progress made in the sustainability pact with that asian state.
‒ given that migration is a global and complex phenomenon that requires a long-term strategy to address its root causes such as poverty, inequalities, injustice and armed conflict, i believe that member states and the international community must contribute to finding sustainable political solutions in countries in conflict and strengthen political dialogue, which includes all human rights elements, to support inclusive and democratic institutions, to strengthen the resilience of local communities and to promote social and democratic development in the countries of origin and among their populations.
it is very important to ensure a credible political climate, with the participation of all democratic forces, in order to restore order and maintain stability in the maldives.
we have always been at the forefront in our commitment to and support for consolidating democracy, promoting good governance, strengthening key institutions and helping the maldives to address social, environmental and transnational challenges.
the success of the reform process depends on the existence of a democratic political environment.
to secure the sustainability of the integration process, all political parties need to cooperate and work constructively together.
it is important that improvement is further maintained, and i am sure the country will achieve clear and sustainable results in these fields in the near future.
‒ the eu 2020 strategy sets ambitious targets for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by boosting competitiveness, job creation and sustainable investment.
it is indeed necessary to strike a new balance between better evaluation and the best possible investment, and to steer the economy towards a path of sustainable growth and a job-rich recovery.
the report puts forward a set of recommendations on the european investment bank’s operational methodology, in terms of how the bank should be ready to play its role in relation to the investment package, how investment needs to target more specifically the backbone of the european economy, namely smes, and how eib investment projects should be increasingly aimed towards sustainable energy and climate change, as well as infrastructure investments important for jobs and growth.
the success of the efsi is of paramount importance for sustainable growth and job creation in europe.
in particular in countries that have recently joined the union, boosting public investment in sustainable infrastructure projects can help create new jobs.
i believe that, in the coming decades, we will have to deliver a global strategy that must include sustainability in farming systems and in global food production through sustainable small-scale farming, organic, high-natural-value or tree-based agriculture, as well as better resource efficiency and increased crop diversity.
‒ i voted and signed this resolution because, through the amendments tabled, it urges the commission and the member states to take advantage of the expo milano 2015 theme feeding the planet, energy for life to make commitments on respecting the right to adequate, healthy and sustainable food consumption.
i welcome the announced talks in geneva and hope that they will lead as soon as possible to a sustainable solution to end the conflict.
i support the view adopted in the report when it states that domestic resource mobilisation is more predictable and sustainable than foreign assistance and must be a key source of financing.
mr president, while the millennium development goals were mostly about poverty eradication, the new goals are a lot wider in ambition, seeking to alleviate poverty, to achieve equitable and sustained economic growth, to protect the environment and to promote peaceful and inclusive societies where human rights everywhere are respected.
we should be careful not to divert this process into a bureaucratic nightmare but to reach an agreement on development policy that is comprehensive and clear, can be easily monitored and is also in line with other international framework agreements such as the one on climate change.
the crisis may have a much bigger impact in the future, through pressure on energy prices, but also because russia and ukraine are the main trade ports of the european union and romania to eastern markets.
the european parliament resolution on green growth opportunities for smes is a step forward in strengthening the small business act strategy, whereby the eu must enable smes to turn environmental challenges into opportunities.
the sectors concerned are renewable energy, resource efficiency, waste management, emission reduction and recycling.
their interest is in stopping mineral extraction from financing conflict, but their interest is also in the enforcement of law-abiding and transparent industry and trade to be the basis of sustainable local development.
we also need to create the right and fair conditions in the underlying environment, preparing for the future to maximise the growth potential of the digital economy.
taking into account existing technological developments, and the fact that a number of european states, which are not part of the european union, can be a favourable environment for the creation and development of conditional access-based hacking devices, the convention drawn up by the council of europe provides a broader legal framework to eliminate any illicit intent over a wider area.
‒ by adopting the post-2015 development agenda, which will replace the millennium development goals, the international community will respond to the challenges facing the world today: eradicating poverty, achieving sustainable and inclusive development for present and future generations, and ensuring the promotion and protection of all fundamental human rights and values as the basis for peaceful and prosperous societies.
‒ i believe the eu and its member states must recommit without delay to the 0.7% of gni target for oda, with 50% of oda and at least 0.2% of gni reserved for least—developed countries, and present, taking into account budgetary constraints, multiannual budget timetables for the scale-up to these levels by 2020. i support the point of view adopted in the report where it states that domestic resource mobilisation is more predictable and sustainable than foreign assistance and must be a key source of financing.
i support the promotion of the one health strategy and the link between human and animal health and the environment.
‒ smes are the core of the eu economy with significant long-term growth potential, and the field of sustainable development holds a wide range of investment opportunities.
by supporting businesses to invest in sustainable development, we are laying the foundations for an ecosystem that will then self-generate its own development resources.
‒ i voted 'for' because i believe that the report presented can create the conditions for easier access to finance for smes, but also because it can help to achieve ambitious goals for a sustainable future at eu level.
last but not least, it highlights the major contribution of smes in areas such as research, development and innovation in general, especially in the areas of environmental protection and the efficient use of the limited resources we have.
if there is one sector that needs to be helped to grow in a competitive environment in europe, it is the sme sector.
by targeting this sector to encourage green activities, recycling, eco-tourism, waste management or waste prevention, we can help to maintain a clean environment for future generations.
environmental protection cannot be done without sustainable investment, public information and the active involvement of the most relevant economic sector in the eu: smes and micro-enterprises.
the responsibility for maintaining an attractive environment for smes in the green business sector lies with us.
we must not miss this opportunity to attract new smes to european funding programmes, to generate absorption in the member states and at the same time to maintain a clean and healthy environment.
it also calls on the commission to include green services in the ongoing negotiations on the environmental goods agreement and in bilateral trade agreements such as ttip, with a view to reducing barriers for european smes and service providers seeking to establish themselves internationally.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, the judgement that, in view of the deterioration of the current security environment both around and within europe, the eu will have to appeal more and more frequently to the csdp is both correct and the realistic.
furthermore, important provisions of the agreement concern, in addition to economic cooperation, social cooperation, based on an organised dialogue, in particular on freedom of association, workers' rights, children's rights, equality between women and men, combating violence against women, cooperation in the field of the environment, in particular with regard to climate change, cultural cooperation, cooperation in the field of combating drugs and money laundering, cooperation in the field of health, in particular combating aids.
perhaps it should not be overlooked that whereas in the past communication channels were limited, today we are facing a new phenomenon due to the increasingly widespread access to the virtual environment, which, through the speed and avalanche of information, significantly contributes to the intensification and perpetuation of conflicts.
‒ this directive aims to improve the environmental performance of products at all stages of their life cycle.
some materials used in electronic products may lead to environmental and health hazards during their production or at the end of their life cycle.
arguments such as the technical unavailability of cadmium-free quantum dots, given that there is a wide range of tvs based on this technology on the eu market, although the energy-saving properties of cadmium-free quantum dots are similar to those of cadmium, are not sufficiently convincing.
‒ the family is an important pillar of societal progress, and the sustainability of european society is impossible without a healthy demographic, which means protecting mothers and children.
‒ the phytosanitary emergency affecting olive groves in southern europe, especially in the apulia region of southern italy, potentially threatening other crops and regions, has assumed unprecedented and serious proportions, with dramatic economic, environmental and social consequences.
that is why i will vote tomorrow in favour of all those amendments which call for the opening of new chapters: that it is about justice and the rule of law, that it is about energy.
(the president agreed to answer three questions put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the epp group is just getting ready to define a very clear position, including on the external dimension of energy security.
so, from this perspective, i suggest three important directions: 1) cooperation in the humanitarian field, where turkey is already making a significant contribution to taking in the largest number of refugees from syria; 2. cooperation in the field of foreign policy in the fight against terrorism, in stopping the financing of terrorist groups as well as in stopping arms trafficking, identification and isolation of foreign fighters; 3) concludes by arguing the importance of opening chapter xv in the energy field, the only one that will allow us to reduce our dependence on gas imports from a single supplier, namely russia.
but, at the same time, turkey is a strategic partner of the european union on security and defence issues, on energy security, on economic issues and on foreign policy as well.
it is a key state with an important strategic position in the area, although i am deeply concerned that elections in ethiopia will not meet international or african union standards for fairness or credibility due to a repressive political environment and efforts by the ethiopian government to limit political pluralism and the independent media.
our reason is that the protection of biodiversity and of the environment is at the core of our european principles and values and, if we do not want to be called irresponsible, incoherent and weak, we must always take this into consideration in our relationship with other countries.
i do not understand nor support the exclusion of an environmental interest in our talks with japan.
the commission shares the view of the european parliament that acer will play a key role in the compilation and proper functioning of the internal energy market (iem).
the implementation by acer of the remit which ensures the effective monitoring of the wholesale energy market is essential for the functioning of the iem.
when carrying out its assessment, the commission will also consider the energy union framework strategy adopted in february this year, 2015, which has further emphasised acer’s role in completing the eu’s internal energy market.
madam president, if we really want to achieve a european energy union we need to fully liberalise the 28 national energy markets, to ensure the integration of these markets by achieving their physical interconnection, but we also need to harmonise national regulations and monitor these markets.
we therefore need to strengthen the work of this european agency, both in terms of coordinating the work of national agencies and in terms of monitoring energy markets.
madam president, energy security must be a permanent concern for the european union and the member states.
this requires close cooperation between countries to enable them to identify common, cross-border solutions, thus giving them the opportunity to rapidly develop their own energy resources.
we are in a period where we are faced with threats and constraints due to energy dependence, and some member states are being forced to make a series of compromises to meet their domestic energy needs, but at very high costs.
the regulatory measures imposed by remit on the wholesale energy market must ensure the security of the information transmitted and remove any suspicion of market manipulation.
madam president, i believe that the european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) has a key role for the transparency of the wholesale energy market.
acer estimates it needs another 45 full—time staff to effectively monitor energy transactions and thus prevent fraud and market manipulation, which has a negative effect on energy prices and consumer trust.
the european security environment, especially in the eastern and southern neighbourhood of the european union, is increasingly unstable and volatile due to the number of challenges.
‒ in an environment characterised by a significant increase in the number of armed conflicts, low-intensity crises, hybrid or intermediate war, failed states or frequent human rights violations in the immediate neighbourhood of the european union, but also by the threat of terrorism inside and outside the eu, an approach in a coordinated and unified manner at union level is necessary.
in writing.– i believe it is of the utmost importance that, at the next g7 summit, world leaders will discuss how to achieve sustainable growth in the face of record debt levels, as well as how to regulate the financial markets and how to improve cooperation on international tax policy.
i hope that the g7 ministers will follow up on their commitment to reach a deal on climate change that is ambitious, robust and inclusive, in order to be effective in limiting the increase in global temperature to 20c above the pre-industrial level.
i consider that there are some priorities which should be addressed at the forthcoming summit besides foreign and security policy and sustainable economic growth.
we must focus on securing key eu networks – transportation, energy, financial or healthcare networks.
madam president, in order to turn europe into a circular economy, boost recycling, secure access to raw materials and create jobs and economic growth, the commission adopted a waste framework directive that sets the recycling targets for the member states.
penalising waste disposal to landfill through a dumping tax, improving sanitation law and enhancing cooperation between all those involved in recycling systems are steps that need to be taken, and they must be taken into account for the implementation of a much-needed strategic view of romania’s waste management system.
mr president, direct payments are the mechanism absolutely indispensable for sustainable and efficient agriculture.
he's stopped a number of mafias that were exploiting forests, pilfering the energy market, stealing vat, evading taxes and smuggling.
work is done in the normandy format and in trilateral talks on trade and energy.
we cannot turn a blind eye to security risks in sectors like energy, cyber-space, civil aviation or the impact of propaganda on our democracies.
the work by high representative mogherini, with commissioners šefčovič and malmström, on the trilateral talks on energy and trade proves we are on the right track.
we have maintained our support and assistance for civil society organisations and human rights projects in an increasingly challenging environment.
the russian blacklist of european politicians and officials, including a large number of members of this parliament, adds yet another obstacle to mutual trust and to repeated efforts for a peaceful and sustainable solution to the current crisis.
we draw the attention of the russian federation to the fact that, however much the member states may depend on the energy component, they will never accept the violation of the basic principles of security in europe.
these actions, together with an intensification of the exchange of information between customs authorities, would improve the business environment and contribute to preventing the entry of goods and services in breach of ipr into the market.
the next item is the joint debate on– the recommendation from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of commitments thereunder (10400/2014 – c8-0029/2015 – 2013/0376(nle)) (rapporteur: elisabetta gardini) (a8-0167/2015), and– the recommendation from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one part, and iceland, on the other part, concerning iceland’s participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments of the european union, its member states and iceland for the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change (10883/2014 – c8-0088/2015 – 2014/0151(nle)) (rapporteur: giovanni la via) (a8—0166/2015).
we all know that the main objective of the kyoto protocol is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions internationally.
it represents an important step forward in the fight against global warming, containing binding and quantified targets for limiting and reducing greenhouse gases.
given that climate commitments can only benefit us, i welcome the doha amendment which strengthens this commitment period legally under the european union climate and energy package.
madam president, under the doha agreement we commit to limit our average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013-2020 to 80% of our 1990 emissions.
i am completely in favour of the ratification of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol as it will send a strong international signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change.
we should call on all these countries to ratify as soon as possible, because this is of tremendous importance to ensure the necessary global response to climate change.
a signed agreement will keep us united on the right track, sharing a vision of a climate-safe world with sustainable growth for all.
madam president, although the conclusion of the doha amendment would not bring any change in terms of member states’ co2 reductions and commitments, it would nevertheless give a clear signal, before the paris climate change summit, about europe’s ability to face its responsibilities as a polluter and its commitment to be at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
we should do our utmost to use it in the creation of a global climate change action plan that is economically efficient and politically bold and farsighted.
i believe that the european union must continue to have a major approach under the kyoto protocol and in this regard i support the adoption of the doha amendment which provides for legally binding commitments to reduce ghg emissions in the period 2013-2020 to 80% of the reference year's emissions.
given that romania is the first european country to sign the kyoto protocol, whereby it has undertaken its commitment to support the fight against climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, i believe, as does the rapporteur, that the formal adoption of this amendment is among the priority objectives of the european union, contributing fundamentally to global efforts to address climate change.
the next item is the report by algirdas saudargas, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on european energy security strategy (2014/2153(ini))(a8-0164/2015).
how do you think we will be able to achieve the energy union, how will we be able to get the development gap in energy and transport infrastructure in the member states to be narrowed if the junker investment plan does not take account of social cohesion and geographical criteria, allocating funds on technical criteria?
the energy security strategy must first ensure the negotiation of the purchase of energy resources, in particular gas from russia, with one voice.
we should start at regional level, with the assistance of the commission, to create regional energy infrastructure hubs.
new gas sources are needed, limiting energy dependence on russia, expanding and strengthening transmission and distribution networks.
the energy world involves coordinated governance of the internal market as well as strategic interconnectors, particularly in the western balkans.
member states need incentives to develop a diversified energy mix based on indigenous energy sources that meet demand from renewable sources, including hydro, but also from fossil, thermal or nuclear hydrocarbons.
a clear coal strategy is needed to ensure energy supply continuity.
the commission should create the conditions for the integration of the offshore potential of the eastern mediterranean, the north sea, the baltic sea and the black sea, which is essential for the development of the european internal energy market.
the european union needs to monitor more closely the strategy of the russian monopoly including the geopolitical acquisitions of the energy grid and distribution points and storage facilities.
this is a way of strengthening energy security.
to this end, we need the support of the european commission to develop the necessary physical interconnections, harmonise regulations and transfer energy-efficient technologies.
you know that russia could cause significant disruption in the eu energy sector, and not only with regard to gas supply but also in relation to nuclear supply and nuclear fuel.
this is a subject that has to be addressed quickly by the commission in the future energy security strategy of the european union.
it is a subject of tremendous importance for europe’s energy security in the future.
for many countries in central and south-eastern europe, the concept of energy security is essential, both from the point of view of national security and the well-being of citizens.
the crisis has called into question the urgency of progress on: european energy infrastructure, the completion of the internal energy market and the diversification of import sources.
despite this context, there are also countries which are making considerable progress towards energy independence on a temporary basis.
we need more examples of this and i am glad that we have agreed the terms of a european energy security strategy.
the creation of the energy union is the only solution to the vulnerabilities that logically derive from regional instability.
the energy union can provide member states with a physical and legal framework through which they can cooperate and provide each other with energy resources needed for economic growth and job creation, citizens' welfare, industrial competitiveness and the business environment.
‒ climate change is one of the most important challenges facing humanity and requires a responsible approach and concrete action at global, national and regional levels.
rising temperatures, droughts, floods and melting glaciers are increasingly common phenomena that confirm the existence of climate change.
the european union has been engaged in the fight against climate change for several years, both internally and internationally, making it one of the eu's priorities.
in this context, the 1997 kyoto protocol, which gave the european union and its member states a shared responsibility to meet their collective greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions reduction commitment of 8% compared to 1990 levels in the period 2008-2012. it has been an effective tool used by the eu.
in view of the problems of climate change and the steps to be taken to protect the environment, i welcome the wish to establish a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol as this helps to eliminate risks for all present and future people on the planet.
‒ i support the adoption of the doha amendment establishing a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020, providing for legally binding emission reduction commitments, thus demonstrating that both the european union and the member states are committed to limiting their annual average greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions over the period 2013-2020.
in writing.
‒ under the doha agreement we committed to limiting our average annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of our 1990 emissions.
i am in favour of ratifying the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol as it will send a strong international signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change.
this ratification is of tremendous importance to ensure the necessary global response to climate change.
signing the agreement will keep us united, on the right track, sharing a vision of a climate-safe world with sustainable growth for all.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol because the eu has to promptly address the issue of climate change at an international level.
a multilateral response to climate change, together with a smart, strategic framework for an energy union are two complementary eu policies.
we cannot coherently tackle the issue of energy security and efficiency without taking into account climate change.
in addition, the eu and its member states are already implementing a 20% emissions reduction target by 2020, which in fact allows them to agree to implement their commitments for the kyoto protocol.
while the oceans are warming and industrial pollution is booming we must not forget that nature takes care of us, so we need to take care of nature as well!
‒ the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change was signed in 1997 setting an internationally binding emission reduction target.
i have voted for this report because it will commit the states parties to reducing greenhouse gases and also because it is a valuable part of the momentum for global climate action.
i believe that iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments for the second period under the kyoto protocol will have a visible impact and send a strong signal in terms of coordinated european efforts and engagement to address existing climate change issues.
‒ i appreciate that iceland, which is not a member state, also supports the adoption of the doha amendment, thus demonstrating its interest in jointly meeting this commitment based on the total greenhouse gas emissions permitted for the period 2013-2020 under the eu climate and energy package.
‒ the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020, with legally binding emissions-reduction commitments according to which the european union, its member states and iceland are jointly committed to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013-2020 to 80% of their base-year (in most cases 1990) emissions.
the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, and the joint fulfilment of the commitments by the european union, will send a strong signal about the efforts and the leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change at international level, and the consent of the european parliament to this agreement is therefore necessary.
i agree that the russian leadership should seek to normalize relations and it is very important that the eu should also try to create a more favourable climate for this.
‒ the energy challenge is one of the great challenges facing the european union.
bringing our energy system on a new, more sustainable and secure path is long-term, but it is imperative that we take ambitious decisions to do so.
to have a competitive, efficient, low-carbon economy, we need to define an energy policy at european union level and focus our efforts on a few key issues.
ensuring that energy is supplied in sufficient quantities, at affordable prices, efficiently and sustainably are objectives that the european union must achieve in order to ensure the energy security that member states so badly need.
i voted in favour of the european energy security strategy because it is a key element that helps to define the main challenges we need to face by developing an energy policy based on close coordination of member states' positions.
‒ energy efficiency is the number one fuel in the world because it is the cheapest, most available and most sustainable, and i therefore believe that union policies need to set clear targets for measures to increase energy efficiency and promote investment in energy efficiency because it brings significant long-term gains for the security of supply at european level.
‒ i welcome this report because i believe that we urgently need a european energy security strategy if we do not want to be vulnerable to supply disruptions, whether caused by political or commercial disputes or by infrastructure failures.
the path to energy security lies in energy transition, in putting energy efficiency first, in promoting renewables and in investing the money we currently spend on expensive imports domestically to develop our green technologies industry and create more jobs.
this is why i would like to state my support for the amendment that we tabled regarding the inopportunity of continuing with authorisation for new shale gas activities by member states, clearly dangerous for the european environment.
it is indeed clear that we should focus more on investing in infrastructure if we want to increase energy security and reduce costly imports of energy from outside the eu.
i would like to welcome the inclusion in the report of higher 2030 targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy than those agreed upon by the european council.
‒ considerable progress has been made in recent years in strengthening energy security, notably through an increase in the share of renewable energy.
first, we need to stress the importance of energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy and investment in the internal market.
the report underlines that the potential for energy savings is in all sectors of the economy, including industry, construction, transport, agriculture and services.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because the eu’s energy security is highly important in the current geopolitical context.
the eu imports 53% of the energy it consumes, including almost 90% of its crude oil, and russia is responsible for a third of our oil imports.
we need to send a strong message to our trading partners that we are striving for energy independence.
member states have to unite and cut back on energy consumption, boost energy production and invest in renewable energy sources.
it is clear that energy security will be a highly important factor when we are seated at the table of international negotiations with other global powers.
i strongly believe that a sustainable energy landscape is the only way we can achieve energy security and keep energy prices low for our citizens.
i am confident that, slowly but surely, the energy union will achieve energy independence and this will hopefully change the foreign policy of some member states.
‒ given europe’s current economic vulnerabilities, an excessive energy bill or having our energy supplies disrupted are risks that should be avoided.
nor can one accept the prospect of our citizens having to endure the cold of the winter because of the political machinations of some of our international energy providers.
i was largely in favour of an ambitious itre committee position that emphasised energy efficiency, the completion of our internal energy market and a diversified energy supply and mix, as some of the key avenues to make the delivery of our energy more secure.
we have to realize that the stakes are high and that if an energy union is to be swiftly achieved for the equal benefit of all european citizens, less divisiveness in needed.
perhaps this vote should be regarded as a cautioning point for the oncoming energy union debates.
‒ the eu imports more than half of all the energy it consumes.
european energy security strategy has enabled so—called stress tests so that eu countries will work together so that no household will be affected in the event of a winter gas disruption.
i have voted for this report because of its long-term energy measures such as energy efficiency, energy production, building missing infrastructure and strengthening emergency and solidarity mechanisms.
‒ i voted today in favour of the report on energy security because it is very important to have a clear and forward-looking strategy to ensure the energy independence of all eu states, including romania.
the degree of dependence of many member states on energy imports remains a security and safety issue for the economic and social stability of the whole eu, with direct and serious effects on european citizens.
in this regard, the funds planned in the 2014-2020 budget year for increasing the interconnection of the energy system at member state level is of critical importance and can help to better distribute the available resources.
however, energy security and independence must and can only be achieved through sustainable development.
it is sad that this report, which covered so many issues in the field of energy security, was rejected because it was too critical of the method of extracting shale gas, a highly sensitive subject for romania.
‒ in the context of recent geopolitical events, the importance of the european union's energy security has become essential.
despite significant progress in strengthening it, by increasing the share of renewables and by a general reduction in demand, 53% of the total energy consumption of the european union is covered by imports.
the main risks stem from the fact that much of this energy comes from geopolitically unstable areas such as the middle east, russia or the caucasus, and from the fact that many european states continue to be dependent on a single external source of supply, which leads to high costs for citizens and endangers national and european security.
i support the idea of creating an energy union, based on the principles of competitiveness and sustainability, in a fully integrated energy market.
we need full integration of energy systems to enable the trans-border transport of surplus energy in order to prevent shocks caused by external energy supplies.
greater effective solidarity between european states would reduce risks to energy security and help to eliminate a serious vulnerability in the current international context marked by tensions in ukraine, the middle east and the maghreb.
moreover, the commission should further facilitate the negotiations between olaf and the supervisory committee by speeding up the delivery of an action plan with a view to amending the working arrangements between the two entities so as to create a working environment in which, inter alia, there is no hindrance to the committee fulfilling its mandate.
rapporteur.– mr president, after the cold war, the black sea – which was relatively closed before – became, first, a transport route for caspian oil and gas towards the west and, second, a source of energy in itself, forcing both its opening up and its consideration in a larger regional perspective, namely the ‘black sea area’.
consequently, in the last year-and-a-half the black sea has acquired important military relevance, in addition to its existing economic relevance, which could not leave the eu uninterested, especially when both the eu security and defence strategies are being revised, making all the union’s other interests – environment for instance – inevitably mediated by the long—term militarisation process initiated in the area.
and let me stress that if after this report the european commission does not update its black sea synergy, we will end up with neither security nor energy but just another piece of paper.
in the same context of the excellent pascu report raises the issue of the vulnerability of the critical energy infrastructure in the black sea basin, now and in the future.
energy security is being used today by the russian federation as a real weapon, but we draw its attention to the fact that, however much the member states may depend on this dimension, they will never accept the violation of the basic principles of security in europe.
the illegal annexation of crimea has produced an unstable and violent climate in eastern ukraine.
the fact that, during the negotiations with the commission and the council, parliament succeeded in minimising the budget cuts in the connecting europe facility and the horizon 2020 programmes is also a great achievement, which ensures that vital financing for energy and transport infrastructures and research and development projects is secured.
in the current global economic situation, where the european union is competing with strong states and regional structures, we need to harmonise tax systems to ensure that we all benefit from a coherent and unified environment within the union, offering equal opportunities for development to all member states.
this balance is necessary to provide more resources for the sustainable development of the member states and the prosperity of european citizens.
these new investments are not only necessary to revitalise the union economy but also to transform it into a sustainable, innovative and circular economy.
it is also of particular importance that the efsi reinforces those policies and contributes to their delivery, by also focusing on the transformative investments needed for sustainable and low-carbon transport infrastructure, digital and research infrastructure, renewable energy creation, energy efficiency and energy storage, and the bringing to market of new innovative products, services and technologies.
the political consensus on a programme that will give us a chance at sustainable development is used to draw attention to the fact that the application of the efsi must be fair to all member states, but especially to regions that have to overcome significant development gaps, both in terms of infrastructure and other socio-economic aspects.
i welcome the perspective of the rapporteurs, who pointed out that the efsi should support projects that promote quality job creation, growth and competitiveness in the short, medium and long term, research, early education and training, infrastructure and transition and energy efficiency.
the report adopted by the ep also underlines that investments supported by the efsi should contribute to the implementation of existing union programmes and policies and to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
this consumption generates not only a negative impact on the environment, but also other effects, including political tensions that are increasingly difficult to manage.
we easily waste food, even though malnutrition and hunger are choking entire regions of the world.
we make geopolitical trade-offs for expensive energy, but we ignore the opportunity to use more renewable energy.
all of these are forms of waste.
mr president, europe is making efforts to integrate ecological and social risks into financial legislation, in order to channel capital as appropriately as possible towards appropriate services in the fields of ecosystems and biodiversity.
i believe that environmental degradation, excessive use of resources and lack of appropriate measures can lead to undesirable long-term effects.
on the other hand, greater attention needs to be paid to the efficient use of resources in construction and buildings, given that at european level buildings account for 40% of the total energy consumption of the european union, which generates 36% of total carbon dioxide emissions.
europe needs sustainable buildings, but to do so we need smart and sustainable land-use planning, complemented by good land-use planning and adequate transport solutions.
this legislative package can transform europe's economy into a sustainable system and can also create new jobs, especially for young people.
the circular economy is good for both the economy and the environment.
there are wide differences between the member states of the union in the state of progress towards achieving a circular economy, in particular in the recovery and re-use of technological and household waste.
madam president, our objective is to achieve the best possible agreement, not an ideal agreement, because the ideal agreements exist only in tommaso campanella or thomas morus, utopia; a possible agreement, which will benefit all citizens of the european union, which will guarantee equal rights for national and foreign investors and an agreement which will be subject to high social, environmental and health standards, as well as transparency.
the resolution calls for high social and environmental standards to be respected, and for public services to be explicitly excluded from the content of this agreement.
and i say this: ttip can be a response to today's security challenges by introducing an energy chapter for mutual benefit.
madam president, considering the latest developments in negotiations for the ttip, i would like to express my pleasure that the report contains important demands, namely strong protection of labour rights and ratification of the international labour organisation conventions, high environmental standards, protection of public services and also protection of our food and health safety standards.
despite the many critical voices in the european public regarding the agreement under negotiation, i have chosen to support this report, which calls for more transparency from the commission on the negotiations, an agreement that respects european values, stimulates sustainable growth and contributes to the well-being of all citizens, improving the isds (investor-state dispute settlement) mechanism and also emphasising the geopolitical importance of concluding such a partnership.
beyond addressing the multiple crises it faces, the eu has a medium-term interest in strengthening sustainable economic growth and creating new jobs, especially for young people.
analysts appreciate their spectacular economic growth, but is it sustainable?
‒ the current report concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for a total amount of eur 66.5 million eur in commitment and payment appropriations in response to four cases of flooding in romania (two cases), bulgaria and italy in the course of 2014. in all four cases there has been considerable damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, private homes and assets, the agricultural sector and the environment.
part of this money will cover the costs of emergency operations, and part is allocated to support the reconstruction of road or energy infrastructure affected by floods, as well as to strengthen prevention.
in addition to questions related to sustainability, economic viability, energy efficiency and environmental sustainability, questions arise about how to respond to traffic congestion, traffic jams and other traffic problems.
the information available should enable eu citizens to choose the most sustainable, cheap and fast connection without harming the commercial interests of operators and supports the rapporteur's position that it is the commission's task to identify the appropriate means to this end and to ensure that such access to information does not lead to a dominant position of a provider and therefore to the emergence of a monopoly which would significantly undermine the competitiveness of other market players.
this is a sound step in the right direction but further steps must be taken so as to enable people making a journey in europe to identify the most sustainable, fastest or best-value multimodal door-to-door travel option, to book and pay for it and then to be informed, both before setting off and during their journey, about any disruption to it and, where applicable, to receive suggestions for alternative routes.
the introduction of an integrated system of travel planning and ticketing services is a response to the challenges facing the european transport sector, ensuring sustainability and improving the safety and security of means of transport.
‒ europe is and must remain a leading player on the international market in promoting sustainable innovation and skills and creating new local jobs, which is why i welcome the commission's proposal for a european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which can help, by supporting strategic investments, to boost the european union's competitiveness and achieve the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
i therefore support the mobilisation of additional sources of private and public finance to fund investment on goals of a european dimension, in particular by addressing cross-border challenges in areas such as energy, environment and transport infrastructure.
dairy farmers are particularly vulnerable to income variations due to high capital costs, volatile dairy commodity prices and fluctuating input and energy costs.
the ageing demographic of dairy producers is also a matter of concern and encouraging and supporting generational renewal via new and existing tools is essential for future growth and sustainability for the sector.
‒ the situation of developing countries is quite precarious, especially in the context of the financial crisis, and the public sector cannot provide the necessary adequate investment in areas such as infrastructure, water supply and energy.
‒ in the building, management, maintenance or operation of infrastructures in the transport area (roads, rail, subways), public buildings and equipment (prisons, schools, hospitals), the environment (water and waste treatment or management), utilities, telecommunication or energy networks or development of new technologies or products, there are a number of potential benefits and risks inherent that can be shared between the private and the public sectors.
few, among others include: reinforcing the legal framework for ppps for establishing a clear, predictable and legitimate institutional framework; ensuring adequate human resources to enable the administration to properly design ppps and oversee their implementation; implementing the un guiding principles on business and human rights (ungps); and asking that future ppps within the post-2015 development agenda will follow the goals for poverty reduction and other sustainable development goals.
facilitating the participation of eu companies will not only lead to the creation of jobs, but will also contribute to the development of a sustainable business environment in host countries.
the resolution proposes a number of remedies to these problems, including support for producer associations, investment in human resources in the field, environmental protection measures, measures to support producers in crisis or against abusive practices by supermarket chains.
strengthening the economic and business environment in europe must be a constant concern of the european commission, with the main objective of stabilising existing jobs and creating new ones, as well as increasing competitiveness at european union level.
it is important that there are adequate standards to ensure the functioning of corporate governance of companies with a view to long-term sustainability, which is in the interest of both companies and member states.
it should be noted, however, that effective and sustainable shareholder engagement is the foundation of the effective corporate governance model and stakeholders, and in particular employees, must be stimulated and encouraged to be involved in decision-making processes as a guarantee of effective management.
this measure is a necessary tool to support the effective fight against tax evasion and financial engineering, and the european parliament, we here, cannot miss the opportunity to offer a real solution that avoids situations like luxleaks or other scandals that affect the image and credibility of the business environment in the european union and the european union.
in my country, heavy industry plays a very important role, which means that our country is more exposed to the impact of a higher carbon price, and it's very expensive to protect the industry through state aid, as other countries do.
despite these difficulties, the mechanism is an important pillar of eu climate change policy and we are on track for the 2020 targets.
education adapted to the needs of the market, apprenticeships, traineeships, sustainable jobs and quality employment are what we should aim for.
european industry is a key priority, which must improve european competitiveness by placing it in a global and sustainable framework based on digitisation, research and innovation.
european energy policy must be another objective of the new presidency, in the context of the energy union recently proposed by the commission.
the energy union could be a decisive step forward for the future of the internal market for electricity and gas supply.
a viable energy union requires new governance, where final consumers must play a decisive role in shaping the functioning of the new energy market.
i strongly believe that only a broad political consensus among the parties, attained through inclusive negotiations, can provide a sustainable solution, restore peace and preserve the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen.
in the end, our ability to achieve sustainable improvements on human rights worldwide will also depend on our own ability to live by, and adhere to, these standards.
despite the severe challenges that still remain, we should not underestimate the progress already achieved, hence our increased and concerted commitment for sustainable long-term solutions to the current complex and diverse challenges.
in fact it is the exact opposite: in the long run, a democratic environment is the only cure for radicalisation.
it is clearer now even than it was at the start of the review that we need to work closely with our neighbours on common challenges such as migration, terrorism, extremism and energy security.
i think that as a parliament we must also take account of how we develop - because we have an energy union project - how we develop the other areas, so that we do not end up with accidents that contaminate food and feed.
madam president, colleagues, this report is not about copyright or just about how it affects the digital environment.
for us, the digital space should not be dominated or controlled by anyone, but for a free internet, we must protect those who create and use the online environment to thrive.
i am pleased with the compromises made for this report, but i sincerely believe that we could have done more for the european online environment.
in addition, the united states has cheap energy, and europe has expensive energy.
the partnership will liberalise trade, leading to cheaper energy and greater geopolitical independence from the russian federation.
‒ considering the latest developments in negotiations for the ttip, i would like to express my content that the report contains important s&d group demands, namely strong protection of labour rights and ratification of the international labour organisation (ilo) conventions; high environmental standards; protection of public services, and also protection of our food and health safety standards.
‒ i have voted for this report so that the ttip agreement will have the highest possible level of transparency and will guarantee that only a good agreement will be adopted, an agreement which respects european values, stimulates sustainable growth and contributes to the well-being of all citizens.
the european parliament has given the commission a negotiating mandate, which must be carried out in a democratic and transparent manner, because only under these conditions can the objectives assumed by the european union and the member states be achieved: the promotion of sustainable growth, the development of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, the creation and protection of jobs for citizens, and the provision of a higher degree of protection and satisfaction for european consumers.
‒ structural imbalances in the european carbon market have necessitated corrective action at the level of demand and supply, as without prompt intervention these imbalances will continue and deepen in the medium to long term.
the union must continue its policy of reducing carbon emissions as set out in the 2020 strategy.
i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that emission allowances are the main instrument for achieving the 30% reduction in carbon emissions by 2020.
in writing.
‒ the increase in the price of the certificate will have an effect on most industrial sectors in some member states which do not all have high-performing and carbon-efficient technologies.
in such a situation, operators will have to buy allowances from the market to comply, as the allocation for the period 2013-2020 has been calculated on the basis of benchmarks established by the european commission on the basis of the 10% of the most carbon efficient installations in the eu in the period 2007-2008.
in writing.
‒ the emissions trading system needs urgently be fixed in order to address the surplus of emission allowances which has been building up in recent years.
through the adoption of this report, we will promote low-carbon industrial innovation projects, we will compensate for indirect costs at union level, and we will have addressed the concerns of the industry.
‒ i have voted for this report that will use a reformed emission trading system with an instrument to stabilise the market in line with the commission proposal to achieve the greenhouse gas reduction target.
‒ i voted against the report on the eu scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, as it is against the interests of romania and romanian citizens.
‒ i regret the adoption of this report by the european parliament, given the negative impact on the mining and energy industry both in romania (energy complexes in the river valley, and beyond) and in the rest of central and eastern europe.
through the measures proposed in this report, countries like romania risk being unable to support energy-intensive industries due to high co2 emissions.
‒ the eu carbon market must be a fair system which does not disproportionately affect some member states.
those countries with large tertiary sectors are less exposed to the effects of the ets, whilst countries like romania with an important manufacturing base face higher costs and usually have fewer resources to protect against carbon leakage.
the existing compensation measures, including article 10c of the ets directive and the so-called ‘solidarity allowances’, are not enough if the carbon price is to be increased by withholding credits from the market.
‒ directives on minimum requirements for gradual implementation aiming at improving working conditions, the protection of workers where their employment contract is terminated, and information and consultation of workers and the working environment to protect workers’ health and safety must avoid imposing disproportionate costs and administrative and legal constraints in a way that would hold back the creation and development of small and medium-sized undertakings and family businesses, which are the drivers of sustainable and inclusive growth, and the source of 85% of all new jobs in the european union.
i believe that improving working conditions will have a leverage effect: in addition to fulfilling our mission towards these workers, providing them with protection and an improved working environment, we are also succeeding in making the maritime sector more attractive to the workforce and increasing its competitiveness.
‒ having regard to the request for consent submitted by the council, i voted in favour of the european parliament consent on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation associating the swiss confederation to horizon 2020.
in writing.
‒ i have voted for the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation, regulating the swiss confederation’s participation in the iter activities carried out by fusion for energy.
i believe this is a very positive report as it includes several of our s&d key issues: sustainable and quality job creation; decent working conditions; decent living wages set up through collective bargaining; the fight against poverty; the importance of delivering eu2020 targets through the european semester; inclusive and rights-based labour markets with adequate social protection; reforms aiming at reducing inequalities and increasing the well-being of citizens; reducing labour market segmentation by tackling precarious employment, underemployment, undeclared labour and zero-hour contracts; ensuring quality employment for all in terms of socio-economic security, durability, adequate wages, rights at work, decent workplace conditions, social security protection, gender equality, education and training opportunities.
a 'green' job is a decent job that has the potential to reduce energy and raw material consumption, limit greenhouse gas emissions, minimise waste and pollution, and protect and restore ecosystems.
‒ the europe 2020 strategy is the eu's flagship policy, where the objective of sustainable growth goes beyond climate change and covers a wider range of issues, aiming to transform the eu economy into a smart, green economy.
‒ i believe it is very important to outline the employment challenges and opportunities of the current transition towards a green, low-carbon, energy and resource-efficient economy.
i have voted for this report to support jobs that reduce consumption of energy and raw materials, limit greenhouse gas emissions, minimise waste and pollution, and protect and restore ecosystems.
the green economy is one of the sustainable alternatives for boosting economic growth in the european union.
at the same time, this type of economy can be supported by measures to strengthen environmental criteria in public procurement and lower taxes for green businesses.
however, these documents are only the beginning of a coherent investment policy to create sustainable jobs in the green economy and support smes in this sector.
the present report is a decisive new step in this direction and its adoption will create the conditions for a positive development towards sustainable economic growth within the union.
‒ as global warming and biodiversity loss reach limits beyond which irreversible effects on our societies and the natural environment cannot be avoided, the exploitation of the green economy for jobs is emerging as a source of hope for improving human well-being and social equity.
moreover, the development of new technologies, new less polluting sectors, renewable energies and new modes of production can represent a potential for economic growth in europe and worldwide.
in this scenario, i consider that the transition to a green economy can have the effect of creating new jobs, as sustainable economic activities involve more labour than those they replace.
moreover, waste prevention, ecodesign and reuse could generate net savings of €600 billion or 8% of annual turnover for eu businesses, while reducing annual greenhouse gas emissions by 2-4%.
i strongly believe that domestic resource mobilisation is key to achieve the new sustainable development goals and at a time when oda is not sufficient in that regard.
this would contribute both to the sustainable development of those countries and to combating negative phenomena that feed into the lack of a tax system, such as terrorism, piracy and the illegal trafficking of goods and persons.
financial statements, accounting rules and integrated reporting should better take into account the systemic risks posed by environmental degradation, overuse of resources and short-term market trends and therefore a new and clear policy framework is needed to enable private and institutional investors to shift their investment paradigm towards sustainable investments.
i voted in favour of the report because current policies do not sufficiently focus efforts on this paradigm shift, locking europe into a system where valuable materials, many of them with high environmental and social costs, end up in landfills or incineration.
‒ in a circular economy model, existing materials and products are continuously re-used, repaired, re-furbished and recycled, and thus the waste quantities are minimised.
the committee report as adopted in the envi committee sends an ambitious signal to the commission with the aim of guiding the ongoing work on the new waste package which is expected by the end of 2015. implementing a circular economy model responds to key policy challenges in the eu such as jobs and growth, innovation, the re-industrialisation agenda, and an intelligent use of resources.
– today’s unsustainable use of resources is both causing environmental damage and posing an economic risk.
a circular economy in this sense should be a major medium- to long-term sustainability target for all the member states and the commission, in all available areas.
‒ i voted 'for' because all the studies and expert opinions i have had access to indicate that this legislative package can transform europe's economy into a sustainable system and will lead to new jobs, especially among young people.
it would also reduce european dependence on imported resources and energy.
i welcome proposals to develop indicators on resource use, optimisation of supply chains and prioritisation of waste, which will have a considerable impact on ecodesign.
‒ irresponsible use of resources can be a danger to the environment, leading to climate change, decline in biodiversity, loss of diversity and deterioration of ecosystem services.
in a context where europe depends on important resources that will be depleted in a relatively short period of time, and where the global economy uses the resources of one and a half planets for the production and absorption of waste, i believe that a swift transition to a circular economy is needed.
it is an economic concept closely linked to sustainable development and whose objective is to produce goods and services while limiting the negligent consumption of raw materials, water and energy sources.
to avoid an economic and environmental impasse in europe and globally, we need to increase resource efficiency, which means moving away from the current linear economy, perfectly characterised by the phrase 'use-produce-consume-throw-away'.
furthermore, they argue that special attention must be paid to spatial planning and transport solutions in order to build a sustainable society.
at the same time, this pause is necessary to be used as a first step towards a ceasefire that prepares the ground for a sustainable political solution.
i strongly believe that only a broad political consensus among the parties through inclusive negotiations can provide a sustainable solution, restore peace, and preserve the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen.
i also support and agree with the need for an inclusive security environment, taking into account all sides’ legitimate concerns.
without the cooperation of all the democratic forces in the region, a sustainable democratic development of these states cannot be envisaged.
it reinforces several exceptions and limitations, but tries as well to ensure a good climate for the creative sector and the preservation of european cultural diversity.
it ensures a good climate for the creative sector and the preservation of the european cultural diversity, therefore i voted in favour of it.
the report also acknowledges the need to review directive 2001/29/ec in order to ensure adequate remuneration of authors, performers and other rightholders and adequate protection of those rights, and to achieve an appropriate balance in the european cultural economy between all stakeholders, namely smes, consumers, users, creators and rightholders, in a digital age that involves a constantly changing and evolving technological environment and generates changes in user behaviour, as well as opportunities and challenges.
‒ the european endowment for democracy has demonstrated in the current challenging international context that it is successfully fulfilling its objective of promoting and encouraging democratisation and genuine and sustainable democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation.
member states should continue to provide financial assistance to russian civil society and media through the edf, given that recent events such as restrictions on civil society organisations, the crackdown on political opposition and aggressive disinformation campaigns by state-controlled media appear to serve the purpose of creating a highly nationalist political climate marked by anti-democratic rhetoric, repression and hate speech.
– i have voted for this report that evaluates the european endowment for democracy’s track record to date given the current challenging international environment, and shows that it is fulfilling its main objective of fostering and encouraging democratisation and deep and sustainable democracy in countries in political transition and in societies struggling for democratisation.
the eu wants to support that process, but we need to have the right conditions to be in place in terms of budget, calendar and political climate.
in our responses we have drawn on the african charter on democracy, elections and governance, which stresses the importance of a political climate free of tension, allowing for an open debate, protecting freedom of expression and the right of the opposition to ensure the independence and impartiality of justice.
in 2009, within the basic regulation, the eu opted for a ban in trade in seal products, with two main exceptions: products from hunts conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities (the ic exception) and products from hunts conducted for the sole purpose of the sustainable management of marine resources on a small scale and non-profit basis (the mrm exception).
as regards the inuit exception, the consolidated text encompasses a new set of criteria under which seal products resulting from hunts conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities could be placed on the market – a clear reference to the needs of such communities to provide food and income to support their life and a sustainable livelihood.
i believe that the european union, together with the member states, must support young people to develop professionally and believe in their power to bring about change and contribute to the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth that the europe 2020 strategy proposes.
in the interests of the environment and human rights, the eu should provide the necessary support to ensure that resources are managed properly and water is accessible and affordable for all.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the cloning of bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine animals reared and bred for agricultural purposes (com (2013) 0892 - c7-0002/2014 - 2013/0433 (cod)) (a8-0216/2015).
to answer animal welfare concerns, the eu banned trade in seal products in 2009. however, it allowed two exceptions for seal products from hunting by inuit and other indigenous communities, and for small-scale hunts to ensure the ‘sustainable management of marine resources’ (mrm exception).
furthermore, i agree with the removal of the exception on products from fishing for the sustainable management of marine resources, as it risks being interpreted broadly and thus leading to abuses.
in this context, i believe that, in the long term, functional vocational training systems can help to combat skills shortages and youth unemployment, and i believe that member states and the commission should promote the exchange of good practice on how vocational training systems can provide family businesses with the best environment for investing in apprentices.
in this respect, as the report proposes, member states and regional and local authorities should stimulate and strengthen entrepreneurship, simplify and de-bureaucratize the work of european businesses, provide tax incentives for businesses and other compensation to help women and men working as employees, as self-employed workers or as managers of family businesses to reconcile family life with professional life, creating an environment conducive to economic performance.
moreover, as this report shows, they contribute substantially to the sustainable development of the european economy and to reducing unemployment, especially among young people.
given the importance of these family businesses, i believe it is more than necessary for the european union to find sustainable solutions to the administrative, financial and fiscal obstacles faced by family businesses.
‒ oceans and seas can be source of growth, jobs, food, medicine and energy while protecting ecosystems for generations to come if they are managed in a responsible and sustainable manner.
new technology, for example to counteract the degradation of marine ecosystems, or to capture and store carbon emissions, plays an important role.
i support the importance of an integrated and coordinated approach and the need to consider the potential of carbon capture and storage, but in a balanced manner; i believe that the commission should further analyse how the technology and its accompanying infrastructure to transport the co2 safely and in a cost effective manner can be applied in an economically viable way.
however, as the opinion of the committee on fisheries, on which i worked as a shadow rapporteur, showed, we need to find the balance between the temptation to develop this new economy, with its incredible potential for research, innovation and job creation, and its impact on the environment.
if properly managed and sustained, blue economy can be a source of growth, jobs, food and energy.
second is the need to consider in a balance matter carbon capture and storage (ccs).
third, is the importance to maintain, support and develop natural marine environments and biodiversity.
developing the potential of the blue economy in europe requires further action at both eu and member state level to address a number of issues, including: the significant lack of data on the seas and oceans, their resources and biodiversity and interactions with human activities; the need for strategic planning of activities in the blue economy; priority-oriented direct funding methods; and an action plan to stimulate the sector by 2020. there is also a need to create an appropriate financial framework to stimulate innovation, ensure the sustainable development of the blue economy and create jobs, combining, coordinating and facilitating access to the various available financial instruments.
teaching and learning entrepreneurship is extremely important at all levels of formal education, as well as that non-formal and informal learning is a privileged environment to acquire entrepreneurship competences.
in this regard, i believe that the promotion of entrepreneurship should be done above all at institutional level, through education, so that pupils and students acquire the necessary knowledge for a good adaptation to the labour market and become competitive in the professional environment.
i am confident that, through this report, we will be able to highlight the undervalued role of the europe’s cultural heritage as a source of social innovation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, tackle the challenges such as lack of finances, technological change and globalization, influx of tourism, trafficking of cultural goods and so on; that we will seize the opportunities such as innovation in conservation, digitization and online accessibility, creation of open networks and reaching wider and more diverse audiences, and strengthen policy cooperation on all levels, all that towards achieving an integrated approach on the european level.
cultural heritage is one of the pillars of the european culture and needs to be preserved and fostered through an integrated and coordinated policy in order to preserve it for future generations, as well as to realize its potential as a source of sustainable jobs and growth.
the european cultural heritage is naturally heterogeneous, reflecting cultural and linguistic diversity and european pluralism, and its effects are manifested in regional development, social cohesion, agriculture, maritime affairs, environment, tourism, education, digital agendas, external relations, customs cooperation, research, innovation.
in this regard, today's report shows how important it is that the available financial and human resources are used to support, enhance and promote cultural heritage on the basis of an integrated approach, taking into account also the cultural, economic, social, historical, educational and environmental components.
it is an important resource for economic growth, employment and social cohesion, offering the potential to revitalise urban and rural areas and promote sustainable tourism.
nonetheless, i support the elements in this report and view its adoption as a way forward in the promotion of an integrated policy, one that not only preserves our heritage but also realizes its potential as a source of sustainable jobs and growth.
‒ currently, 748 million people lack sustainable access to safe drinking water and one third of the world's population lacks access to basic sanitation.
a transport system of the future can only be one without barriers of any kind and using all modes of transport in a sustainable way.
urban centres are also the places where we face the negative effects of transport on a daily basis, whether in the form of carbon emissions or air quality or traffic congestion.
integrated mobility services and real-time information provision will bring us closer to the goal of transitioning to sustainable transport modes.
eu crisis management structures should focus on the need to find sustainable solutions to the numerous conflicts in our neighbourhood.
they will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
at the same time, they will help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in those countries and promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources.
they will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
at the same time, they will help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in those countries and promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources.
and without sustainable and sustainable development, these funds will never be enough to help the people of guinea-bissau to escape from the poverty they are in.
the eu and cape verde have been partners in this area since 1990. the general objective is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the republic of cape verde with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the cape verdean fishing zone, in the interest of both parties.
they will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
at the same time, they will help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in those countries and promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources.
at the same time, it is essential that all eu vessel activity is monitored and analysed to ensure that we use marine resources in a sustainable way and in line with the objectives of our own common fisheries policy.
they will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
at the same time, they will help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in those countries and promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources.
eu flag vessels must fish in accordance with the objectives of the common fisheries policy, must respect international and local law and, not least, must do so in a sustainable manner.
the agreement will regulate, among other things, shark fishing quotas, ensuring that the amount does not endanger ocean biodiversity, but also a substantial annual financial contribution to cape verde of half a million euro, which will allow this country to effectively fight illegal fishing and develop legal fishing.
they will grant support to the development of a good fisheries policy and grant eu vessels more fishing opportunities while respecting the environment.
at the same time, they will help the development of a sustainable fisheries policy in those countries and promote the responsible exploitation of fishery resources.
through such provisions, together with the amounts to be paid by the eu to the government of madagascar, the agreement ensures both sustainable and equitable exploitation of the region's fish resources.
i believe that solidarity action by member states is crucial in formulating a concrete and sustainable response to the refugee crisis.
the objectives of the member states shall be linked to smart, green, sustainable and diverse economic growth.
at the same time, urban areas face numerous economic, social and environmental challenges to which the european urban agenda can offer concrete solutions.
the objectives of the agenda shall focus on specific priorities that have the capacity to deliver measurable results in the development of smart cities and the low-carbon economy and that are conducive to social inclusion.
‒ i believe that european union policies must support functional cities and urban areas to express and realise their full potential as engines of economic growth, employment, social inclusion and sustainable development.
‒ i have voted for this report that will examine the urban policy challenges for eu policy makers and to devise guidelines and boundaries for a future sustainable eu urban development policy.
in this respect, i believe that the inclusion of a common european urban agenda that would promote in particular the development of governance solutions capable of meeting the challenges and objectives of sustainable development and favourable to the economic and social inclusion of urban areas is beneficial for the eu, and i am thinking in particular of romania, a country that is changing demographically and urbanistically at a higher speed.
the development of this european policy can contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives, in particular with regard to social inclusion, demographic change and sustainable development.
mr president, i welcome the progress achieved by belarus in the areas of higher education, vocational training, the digital market, the energy sector and food safety, among others, that will most certainly lead to increased cooperation between belarus and europe.
it took so much time, it took so much energy also because we wanted the agreement itself, the text and the annexes themselves to be as detailed as possible in order not to leave room for interpretation or disputes in the implementation phase and in the follow-up.
trade, energy, environment, technology, aviation safety but also terrorism and regional issues, and obviously human rights, we agreed the following steps.
the lifting of economic and financial sanctions against iran will only be possible if the international atomic energy agency finds that the commitments made in the joint comprehensive plan of action are being implemented.
we cannot ask for new jobs and quality jobs without helping those who can provide them by creating the proper environment.
therefore i advocate three solutions: firstly, facilities for labour mobility, secondly, an improved entrepreneurial environment and, thirdly, a better way of matching the education system and employers’ needs, mainly through vocational education.
secondly, on improving the entrepreneurial environment, we all know the erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme established by the commission.
mr president, making healthcare sustainable is a very important part of the political agenda in europe and it is crucially important for a safe and sound european population.
through our efforts we will be able to enact positive healthcare transformations that can adapt and, over time, produce high-quality and universally accessible health services in a financially sustainable way.
i think a major factor in the sustainability of health systems is to strengthen preventive action: to use incentives more.
mr president, i am deeply concerned about the broader deterioration in the environment for freedom of expression in angola, including the increased use of criminal defamation lawsuits against journalists and routine police abuse.
this cooperation is to the benefit of both sides not only from the point of view of the energy sector, as stated earlier, but also in terms of respect for human rights.
member of the commission.– mr president, azerbaijan is a close partner in several fields of strategic importance for the european union, notably energy security and regional stability.
to achieve sustainable results, we will have to apply a long-term constructive approach based on dialogue and engagement and the intense use of diplomatic channels.
‒ cohesion policy is the european union's main instrument, aimed at reducing economic, social and territorial disparities in european regions, boosting their competitiveness, combating climate change and energy dependence, and at the same time contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
during the 2014-2020 financing programming, in areas such as innovation, digital and low carbon economy, employment and smes, clearly showed potential for creating sustainable jobs, especially for youth.
the report underlines that the potential for creating sustainable jobs, especially for youth, is promising taken into account the investments during the 2014-2020 financing programming (in areas such as innovation, employment and smes).
‒ i have voted for this report that includes new measures to increase effectiveness and result orientation, thematic concentration in particular on innovation, the digital and low carbon economy, education and sme support.
it is clear that ensuring a stable fiscal and economic environment (as well as an effective institutional, administrative and regulatory environment) guarantees the effectiveness of cohesion policy.
the main areas of this investment in the current multiannual framework (2014-2020) are innovation, the digital and low-carbon economy, the creation of new sustainable jobs (especially for young people), and small and medium-sized enterprises.
i support the idea stated in the report that linking the retirement age only to life expectancy fails to take account of the importance of labour market trends and is therefore not the only instrument to tackle the challenge of an ageing society; instead, through their employment protection legislation and systems of wage formation member states should support the recruitment of older workers especially before their statutory retirement age, as unemployment would have further negative effects on their retirement income, and ensure sustainable social protection systems.
the objective of reducing europe's dependence on oil imports and of reducing carbon emissions from transport by up to 60% by 2015 is extremely ambitious and can only be achieved through a well-defined set of interventions.
i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: assessment of the state of play and the way forward to achieve sustainable mobility as it is necessary to transform the european transport system and to create well-founded policies for the sustainable development of this sector.
‒ through the adoption of this report, we will provide current and future generations with access to safe, secure, reliable and affordable mobility resources to meet their needs, while minimising undesirable impacts such as congestion, accidents, air and noise pollution, and climate change effects.
i strongly support the inclusion, in the report of important social aspect in all modes of transport such as ensuring equal and fair treatment, good and safe working environment, promoting high quality jobs and working conditions for transport workers and ensuring fair and undistorted competition between transport operators.
i welcome the introduction of measures for doubling public transport use in urban areas by 2030; the inclusion of measures for safety, usage in urban areas, elderly or disabled people and cyclist and the shift towards a more sustainable transport mode, less polluting and most energy-efficient mode of transport.
i voted for the report on the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: assessment of the current situation and the way forward to achieve sustainable mobility.
i welcome the rapporteur's view that the completion of the trans-european transport network remains one of the preconditions for a more sustainable, efficient and continuous multimodal transport system and for a more balanced distribution of freight and passengers between modes of transport.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that immediate action is needed to remove the cultural and institutional barriers that favour the presence of gender segregation in the scientific and academic environment and to encourage equal and non-discriminatory treatment in the hope of boosting research activities.
‒ gender equality is a fundamental principle of the european union, a basic precondition for the full enjoyment of human rights by women and girls and is essential for their empowerment and the achievement of a sustainable and inclusive society.
in this sense, i believe that the commission and the member states should develop programmes to ensure that the necessary enabling environment is created for women's academic careers, taking into account the role of women in the family.
a number of obstacles relating to labour market access, disaster prevention, energy policy and free movement still need to be overcome in order to achieve legislative harmonisation between the eu and efta states.
‒ i welcome the progress achieved by belarus in the areas of higher education, vocational training, the digital market, the energy sector and food safety, among others, that will most certainly lead to increased cooperation between belarus and europe.
‒ i have voted for this resolution that recognises the progress that has been made in sectoral cooperation in the areas of higher education (the bologna process), vocational training, the digital market, the energy sector, food safety and culture, among others.
nevertheless, the economic and financial crisis that has affected the eu in recent years has meant that we are still far away from achieving these objectives, and we must now rethink the social and economic model to ensure that future growth is not only sustainable but also tallies with the principles of economic, social and territorial cohesion on which the eu is based.
i agree with the rapporteur that to achieve a competitive labour market in the eu, ambitious reforms are needed that increase inclusion, smart flexibility, innovation and mobility, strengthen the role of social dialogue, stimulate more job creation leading to quality and sustainable employment, increase productivity and contribute to the development of human capital, bearing in mind that labour markets and production patterns are constantly changing.
it was noted that the areas in which member states were most frequently subject to infringement procedures in 2012 and 2013 were transport, health protection, consumer protection and environmental protection, the internal market and services.
according to these reports the four fields in which member states were mostly subject to transposition infringement proceedings in 2012 were transport, protection of health and consumers, protection of the environment, and issues related to the internal market and services, whereas in 2013 the most problematic areas were the environment, protection of health and consumers, the internal market and services, and transport.
‒ taking into consideration that implementation and transposition of eu law remain uneven across member states, i have voted for this report that will better regulate issues related to the internal market and services, transport, protection of health and consumers and protection of the environment.
any european energy programme needs to be reviewed in the light of new trends in energy resources.
the fall in the price of oil to below $50 a barrel has changed the entire global outlook on investment, production and consumption of fossil fuels, but also on renewable energy.
all the targets proposed for this year's paris conference on reducing the causes of climate change with impacts on human life and the environment should therefore also be reviewed.
the energy union strategy is one step closer to being implemented with the adoption by the european commission of a package of necessary measures.
what i am glad of is that the measures are aimed primarily at energy consumers at all levels, from individual households to commercial and industrial consumers.
finally, we have adopted the logic of delivering benefits to european consumers by reorganising the european electricity market, updating the energy efficiency labelling system and revising the union's emissions trading scheme.
the measures are undoubtedly ambitious, but they strengthen the position of energy consumers in europe and at the same time send a signal to partners at global level ahead of the long-awaited paris conference.
the proposal to revise the eu emissions trading system aims to create new business opportunities and open up new markets for innovation through the need to use low-carbon technologies.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy-efficient transport policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy-efficient transport policy.
the fire-fighting allocation of funds every time a crisis arises is not a sustainable solution, farmers need stability and decent incomes.
‒ the europe 2020 strategy is a sound basis for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and if its objectives are to be confirmed before the end of this year, its implementation tools need to be updated and strengthened now.
the european commission's work programme must therefore address these challenges of the 21st century, including climate change, energy independence, resource efficiency, the transition to a digital society, global competition and rising inequality, and the growing expectations of our citizens.
growth and job creation must once again become the cornerstone of the european social market economy and the european union's strategy for sustainable development.
today's debate is, i think, important because it comes shortly after the adoption in new york of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
as you know, it's an ambitious agenda, which includes the desire to end extreme poverty and to engage all countries on the path of sustainable development by 2030. at the implementation level, the involvement of local authorities and civil society will be crucial if we want the sustainable development goals to become a reality.
madam president, local authorities will play an essential role in achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals that have just been adopted in new york and that shape the new global development agenda for the next 15 years.
sustainable development can only be ensured if certain responsibilities are assigned to those who are best aware of the specific realities and characteristics at local and regional level.
this strategy of involving local authorities is linked to the sustainable development goals that imply a stronger participation at local level and a direct partnership with the beneficiaries of development aid.
i proposed a half a million euros to develop those practices that limit food waste.
the number of refugees is constantly increasing, and now is the time to think about all the things we can do to limit waste and use resources for poor families.
my message is this: stop food waste, educate your citizens, come up with solutions to redistribute food resources that are otherwise being wasted.
‒ following the financial crisis, greece faced a lack of liquidity and insufficient public funds for the investments needed to support a sustainable recovery.
the lack of liquidity and public funds has considerably slowed down the implementation of the sustainable economic recovery measures.
‒ local authorities will play an essential role in achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals that have just been adopted in new york and that shape the new global development agenda for the next fifteen years.
local authorities thus contribute to the creation of democracy at the core of society and to sustainable territorial development based on the active participation of the local population in political decisions.
the new global sustainable development framework must provide opportunities for civil society, local authorities and national parliaments to get involved.
it is well known that local authorities are key actors in the creation of democracy at local level and sustainable territorial development, playing a fundamental role in ensuring transparent, fair and accountable governance.
madam president, commissioner bieńkowska, unfortunately the problem of measuring the level of emissions in the car sector raises an undeserved question mark for the european car industry as a whole.
– mr faria, you mentioned that we have to take immediate action because we, as the european union, were investing a huge amount of money in technological development for a low carbon footprint, but we were not improving or harmonising our emissions testing.
do you not think that one step europe must take is to standardise emissions testing at the level of the 28 member states?
it is clear that the effects were manifested on the citizens, because of the pollution, by the putting into circulation of millions of cars, on the buyers who were deceived, but also on the workers and on the smes who worked as suppliers and sub-suppliers for this company.
the negotiated text constitutes a fair, inclusive and sustainable solution for the country.
as a consequence, harmful air pollutants continue to cause serious problems to our health, our quality of life and our environment.
the damage is also financially costly: the impact of air pollution on health alone amounts to hundreds of billions of euros each year in the european union.
that is why i am glad that, with the adoption of this piece of legislation, we can fill the gap left between the eco-design directive and the industrial emissions directive, while avoiding double regulation.
therefore i think that the gradual adoption of rules – depending on the size of the plants – strikes a good balance between affordability and environmental protection.
in writing.– as we know air pollution causes lung diseases and cancer, as well as heart diseases and strokes.
according to the who and the european commission ambient air pollution is responsible for 400 000 premature deaths in europe in 2010 and 2012, with lung cancer being the leading cause of respiratory death.
air pollution has damaging impacts on the environment, impacting the quality of the water and soil, causing animal and plant life loss.
it damages also the materials and buildings, having also a strong impact on the climate itself.
we have to support the compromise package and therefor contribute to a thorough eu climate policy.
we will not have the same views on everything, but this is a reason to intensify even further our exchanges and to develop common lines of action and common frameworks for our crucial partnership on the regional conflicts on counterterrorism, on refugees, on migration, and also on other key issues such as energy.
refugees, syria, energy, our access to the muslim world in general, can be greatly improved if we are aware of the importance of this relationship.
against the backdrop of a nationalist kiss, the turning of the environment and political opinion against the kurds was attempted as an electoral platform.
i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of tunisia, of the other part, as tunisia has long-term growth potential and, together with the eu, should leverage existing resources such as human resources and the open economy, in order to contribute to boosting the tunisian economy in a more sustainable and inclusive manner.
the implementation of the expected reforms, combined with existing assets such as its human resources and open economy, will unleash this potential, thereby boosting its economy in a more sustainable and inclusive manner.
mr president, air pollution remains the main environmental factor causing disease in the european union.
we have medium combustion plants that are used to generate electricity, heat and cool in the domestic sector, supply heat for industrial processes and are a major source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions.
we have about 150 000 such installations in the european union which are not subject to environmental legislation.
the commission should also assess, by 31 december 2016, the minimum energy efficiency standards for environmental combustion plants in accordance with available techniques.
‒ according to the commission's impact study, air pollution leads to over 400 000 premature deaths a year and medical costs of up to €940 billion.
it also contributes to significant environmental degradation, with 62% of the eu area exposed to eutrophication and economic damage such as €15 billion in lost working days, €4 billion in medical costs, €3 billion in lost harvests and €1 billion in damage to buildings.
this proposal for a directive is welcome in the context that reducing emissions from medium combustion plants could help to meet eu objectives in areas such as climate and energy, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, while improving energy efficiency and promoting renewable energies.
i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants because i believe that by acting now and closing the current legislative gap, clear signals can be sent in terms of investments and stimulating research and innovation in breakthrough technologies.
‒ air pollution remains a real cross-border problem, with many member states importing a considerable part of their air pollution from neighbouring countries.
there is currently no eu-wide regulation on the level of emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants (installations with a rated thermal input between 1 and 50 mw).
i support action at eu level to establish a coherent and ambitious regulatory framework and to tackle emissions effectively.
‒ i believe that measures to tackle air pollution at the source are indispensable and therefore i strongly support the adoption and strict implementation of the directive on medium combustion plants.
medium combustion plants are one of the most important sources of emissions and a very serious threat to health and the environment.
it aims to lower the potential risks to human health and the environment by laying down rules to control and reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter into the air.
the emissions from combustion plants are obviously a main source of pollution and this text does an important job in calling for tighter regulation, with more control over the permits and functioning of these plants, but also envisaging a reduction in emissions in the next period.
and this i believe is the key – not to preserve the current status quo when it comes to air pollution and emissions, but to strive for a reduction in the future, for a better air quality and for greener alternatives for energy production.
‒ air pollution is one of the key environmental problems facing our societies today.
in this context, it is necessary to adopt a unified european union approach to reducing carbon dioxide emissions overall.
this document represents an important step towards limiting these pollutant emissions (sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter) by establishing clear rules on pollution from medium combustion plant activities.
in general, these measures contribute to the implementation of the union's climate change policies.
of course, the application of these measures will require a transitional period for those installations to be adapted to the new environmental standards.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants.
according to the impact assessment carried out by the commission, air pollution is estimated to lead to over 400 000 premature deaths per year and to health costs of up to eur 940 billion; it also contributes to significant environmental degradation.
the report shows that reducing emissions from medium combustion plants can contribute to meeting the union's climate and energy objectives.
there are three main directions pursued in this report that i was referring to: alignment with the directives which will introduce clarifications on how contracting authorities can contribute to environmental protection and the promotion of sustainable development, obtaining an economically advantageous offer and imposing certain labels and/or using appropriate award methods.
i therefore strongly support the call for a stronger emphasis on disaster prevention through research and development into the treatment of hazardous waste, and for more stringent environmental inspections.
the commission and the member states must step up efforts to ensure the proper implementation of the eu legislation governing the extractive waste industry to avoid a repeat of such environmental and human disasters.
it is very important to better protect our environment, to fight pollution and to fight climate change.
mr president, when the european council of march 2014 concluded that we must elaborate a plan to reduce energy dependence on russia, they were suggesting that, beyond strengthening our relationship with existing suppliers other than russia, a new policy goal should also be to open the way for new energy resources.
i consequently believe that we ultimately need to stand by our european energy security strategy if we do not want to be vulnerable to supply disruptions, whether caused by political or commercial disputes, political instability or infrastructure failures.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, considering the importance of empowering women, not only as a self-standing human rights issue, but also as a precondition for achieving the post-2015 sustainable development goals, i believe that the 2017 mid-term review of the development cooperation instrument (dci) presents a good opportunity to assess the impact of dci-financed programmes on women and girls and make reallocations if necessary.
equal opportunities are a key factor for sustainable development, especially in the areas where inequality is most pronounced in developing countries, namely: employment and economic activities, governance, access to education, health, violence against women.
i therefore strongly support the call for greater emphasis on disaster prevention through research and development into the treatment of hazardous waste, and for more stringent environmental inspections.
the commission and the member states must step up efforts to improve, and ensure the proper implementation of, all eu legislation governing the extractive waste industry so as to avoid a repeat of such an environmental and human disaster.
let us protect the environment more effectively.
let us fight pollution.
let us fight climate change!
‒ we must avoid a repeat of such environmental and human disasters.
‒ the protection of the environment is one of the basic principles of the european union institutions.
this implies a great responsibility for all economic operators in the territory of the member states to manage their activity in such a way as not to cause damage to the natural environment.
however, the adoption of legislation is not enough to guarantee greater safety for citizens and the environment.
otherwise, we risk facing new accidents and disasters that endanger human lives and irreparably destroy the environment.
‒ considering the importance of empowering women, not only as a self-standing human rights issue but also as a precondition for achieving post-2015 sustainable development goals, i believe that the 2017 mid-term review of the development cooperation instrument presents a good opportunity to assess the impact of dci-financed programmes on women and girls and to make reallocations if necessary.
madam president, with an estimated 200 million people in the world forced to leave their homes because of natural disasters in the last five years alone, it is highly likely that climate change could soon become the biggest source of population displacement and that it would have a disproportionately higher impact on less-developed states.
in the not too distant future, the world risks facing new challenges if appropriate action is not taken, and one of the problems will be a fierce competition for resources, generated by climate change.
according to a 2014 unep report on climate change adaptation gaps, developing countries will need to double or even triple their climate change adaptation budgets from previous estimates of usd 70-100 billion per year by 2050. particular attention should be paid to reducing deforestation and forest degradation, which are responsible for 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions, and to meeting commitments to restore 350 million hectares of forest, which would reduce co2 emissions by 4,5-8,8 billion tonnes per year by 2030.
in writing.
i support the idea that eu member states should increase investment in public research in the energy sector to help create generations of low-carbon technologies.
we are all invited to join our efforts to combat climate change.
in the last 10 years, more than 150 million people have been forced to flee their homes due to natural disasters, creating a new category of refugees, climate refugees, who, although not legally recognized, do exist.
in the current context, which puts us in the difficult position of managing war refugees, it is more than necessary to pay particular attention to combating climate change, so that we do not have to manage climate refugees as well.
climate change is a threat to global stability and security in all respects.
i want to emphasize that the lack of real action on climate change will affect all regions of the world differently, from economic, environmental and social losses to loss of human lives.
in parallel, the commission is engaging in trilateral talks on energy and on implementation of the deep and comprehensive free trade area.
‒ climate change is currently a global threat that requires urgent attention, with irreversible potential for human societies and the biosphere.
moreover, the seriousness of the threats posed by climate change should be a major concern, especially as the planet is far from limiting global warming to below 2 degrees celsius relative to pre-industrial levels.
governments must take concrete and binding action to combat climate change and work towards a highly ambitious and legally binding agreement in paris in 2015. i voted in favour of the report on a new international paris agreement on climate change because the paris conference is not just a test meeting, but a decision meeting, and this conference symbolizes a decisive step in the negotiation of a new global climate agreement, which will enter into force in 2020.
in writing.
‒ the scenario of a race to the bottom for the most basic resources could become a reality in the near future, unless we implement concrete policies to combat climate change.
i welcome the idea of a new international agreement on climate change, which would become effective and immediately applicable by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and keeping the temperature rise below 2°c.
but how much progress can we make if we don't have the resources and the environment to grow the economy?
the answer can only be found in a circular and sustainable economy, as we have a moral duty to keep the planet functional for future generations.
i believe that global solidarity is needed to achieve a new agreement on climate change and to take over the decisions taken without delay.
i therefore support the pargneaux report on the proposed international paris agreement on climate change.
‒ i believe that the european union must continue and intensify its diplomatic efforts to better understand the positions of partner countries, to encourage them to pursue ambitious policies to combat climate change and to build alliances in support of this ambition.
‒ we are all aware of the fact that climate change is a reality: around the world, the impacts of climate change are accelerating, and the most vulnerable countries are already paying the higher price.
last september, the conclusions of the intergovernmental panel on climate change were published, and the debate about the human influence on the climate is now over: we are responsible for warming the earth.
we have never had a better opportunity than the upcoming cop21 to tackle the tremendous danger of climate change.
much has to be done in paris, but if we are able to make the climate agreement a reality, our generation will not be remembered as the one that destroyed the world, but as the one who finally came to respect it.
‒ getting off coal as a source of electricity by 2030 would help to limit global warming considerably.
a programme of phasing out both fossil fuels and coal as a source of electricity should be initiated, along with a re-engineering to reduce emissions.
in addition, there is no flexibility for member states to determine their own combination of different types of energy according to specific conditions.
‒ the threats induced by climate change are serious and we must be concerned that the world is far from being on track to limit global warming.
a stable climate system is important for food security, energy production, water and sanitation, and the preservation of biodiversity and terrestrial and marine ecosystems.
‒ i abstained from voting this report because although i support concrete measures against climate change i believe that countries should be helped in making this transition towards clean energy.
this transition implies a good and fair energy mix for all countries but also investment in technologies reducing carbon emissions for the classical energy resources.
‒ everyone's attention is on the last round of negotiations before the 21st united nations climate change conference, which starts on 30 november.
both the global economy and the well-being and health of our people will depend on how governments respond to humanity's greatest challenge, global warming.
this amount will enable them to develop projects aimed at protecting at-risk communities facing the effects of climate change.
right now, the green climate fund is only $10.4 billion in the hole, which is absolutely not enough.
certain decisions need to be taken at this juncture that will allow investors to refocus their investments towards resilient, low-carbon economies.
only through a global agreement can we achieve a fair price for carbon across the major economies and encourage the development of climate-friendly economic and technological solutions.
the european union has the right to ensure that the common agricultural policy functions in the best possible way so that member states can develop and produce high-quality food, help combat climate change and maintain agricultural diversity.
to achieve a healthy economy, we need sustainable economic growth, decreased inflation and poverty, both nationally and internationally, but these things can only be achieved through a simple, transparent and effective mechanism.
it works for the sustainable development of europe, based on balanced economic growth and price stability, a highly competitive social market economy aiming at full employment and social progress, and a high level of environmental protection and improvement.
‒ i have voted for his report that will further support artemis joint undertaking (‘the joint undertaking’) which was initially set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a ‘research agenda’ for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas in order to strengthen union competitiveness and sustainability and to allow for the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
the objective of artemis is to strengthen competitiveness and sustainability within the union and to facilitate the emergence of new markets and applications in society.
as vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control and as s&d coordinator for the committee on industry, research and energy, i am in favour of granting discharge to the artemis joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing.
‒ in my capacity as vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control and as s&d coordinator for the committee on industry, research and energy, i support the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. eniac was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of key competences for nanoelectronics in different application sectors.
‒ such frauds as the one exposed by the volkswagen scandal are truly unacceptable: an action against health and the environment that can neither be tolerated nor forgiven.
while we were investing a huge amount of money in technological development for a low carbon footprint we were neither improving nor harmonising our emissions testing adequately to safeguard us from being fooled by these cheaters.
‒ i fully supported a resolution that denounces an outright breach of eu environmental regulations and the manipulation of millions of consumers.
the volkswagen scandal signals the need for a tighter approach to implementing car emissions regulations in europe.
we urge companies to take full responsibility for their actions, stressing that employees do not have to pay the price for the manipulation of emissions measurement devices.
as s&d coordinator for the committee on industry, research and energy, i voted in favour of the resolution on emission measurement in the motor vehicle sector.
the commission should look seriously at a robust, centralised test procedure which creates a level playing field for car manufacturers, ensures proper implementation of pollution laws, and restores consumers’ confidence in this industry.
‒ the recent emissions scandal not only highlights the need for robust rules on competition among car manufacturers but, more importantly, it makes the case for the eu to update its testing procedures.
according to the jrc, real-world nitrogen oxides (nox) emissions of diesel passenger cars exceed two to five times the regulatory standards.
considerable discrepancies exist between type-approval and on-road co2 emissions as well.
if we do not urgently adopt a real-life emissions test cycle for all major pollutants, not only will we keep denying our citizens their right to be adequately informed, but we will also work against our goals on the protection of public health and the environment.
i voted for the european parliament resolution following the debate on the falsification of car emissions tests by a car manufacturer.
parliament urges the implementation of a new testing protocol, the so-called wltp, in 2017. the wltp is a necessary step to ensure that the consumption and emissions figures produced are representative for a given category of motor vehicles.
as regards energy, i would stress that the energy union must have at its core an efficient and functioning internal energy market, which ensures economic growth, jobs, affordable and competitive prices for individual and industrial consumers, and the protection of vulnerable consumers.
the european commission and the council will set the governance framework after 2020 and must ensure that all legislative proposals forming part of the energy union follow the ordinary legislative procedure, thus fully involving the european parliament.
the commission should present an annual report on the implementation of the energy union, including details on the implementation of energy legislation.
i regret that the commission has not so far come forward with any proposal for a harmonised scheme for the compensation of indirect carbon emissions, which is now left to the member states.
it would also be important to have a european action plan on energy poverty.
this agreement provides for an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimal use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and black seas at levels considered to be sustainable and with a low risk of depletion.
the gfcm recommendations provide for a number of measures to improve the existing framework, including measures on the sustainable exploitation of red coral in the commission's area of competence, measures to reduce incidental catches of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans in fisheries in the gfcm agreement area, and measures to ensure a high level of protection against shark and catfish fishing.
measures include provisions for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the mitigation of incidental captures of seabirds, sea turtles, monk seals and cetaceans, the protection of sharks and rays, and the extension of some technical measures to the black sea as well as management measures for fisheries exploiting small pelagic stocks in the adriatic sea.
‒ i voted for this report, which will provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best utilisation of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels which are considered sustainable and at low risk of collapse.
the existing system is not transparent and does not reflect the concerns that many citizens have in relation to gm products and their potential effects on human health and the environment.
in this context, it is clear that we need an impact assessment of these measures, but above all a series of scientific opinions from the european food safety authority, assessing the risks to human health, animal health and environmental protection.
i consider the position of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to be well founded and support the adoption of the report, in the sense of rejecting the commission's proposal.
i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods because a robust legislative framework is needed for the approval of novel foods to ensure compatibility in terms of safety, benefits for the consumer, as well as environmental, social and ethical concerns.
‒ i believe that the new legislation on air pollution, which causes about 400 000 premature deaths in the eu each year, could save up to €40 billion in pollution costs by 2030.
in writing.
‒ i would like to stress the importance for romania of the proposal for a revised national emission reduction commitments directive, in terms of its impact on many industrial sectors: energy, industry, transport, residential and agriculture.
the proposal for new national emission reduction commitments applicable for 2020 and 2030 specifically implies for romania the following reduction compared to emissions in 2005: 93% for sulphur dioxide, 67% for nitrogen oxides, 64% for volatile organic compounds, 24% for ammonia, 65% for particulate matter pm2.5; and 26% for methane.
these reductions will require additional efforts and costs, to prevent and control emissions, which could affect economic competitiveness.
‒ i voted for this report that will led to the introduction of new ceilings on emissions for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and non-methane volatile organic compounds for 2020 and 2030.
in writing.
the addition of provisions on emissions of harmful gases from animal husbandry, with the express designation of small and medium-sized farming, implies costs and obligations for farmers at or below the threshold of profitability.
‒ this directive on the reduction of national emissions aims to improve air quality, and that will undoubtedly have a positive impact on health.
we must strive to adopt legislation which brings environmental, health, societal and economic benefits.
the european commission has dedicated a policy to the objective of improving europe's poor air quality, the instrument of which involves capping member states' total annual emissions for sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), ammonia (nh3) and non-methane volatile organic compounds (vocs).
in the central and eastern european member states where indigenous solid fuel is used in the energy mix, the reduction of pollutants such as sulphur dioxide and particulate matter is proving to be much more difficult than in other cases.
however, the implementation of the measures proposed in this report by reducing certain air pollutants leads to excessive costs and creates a disproportionate administrative burden on key sectors such as industry, energy, transport and housing.
the eu strategy for the region, eusair, is thus a way of creating a balance of prosperity and sustainable development between the countries in the region, whether eu member states, candidate countries or 'potential candidate countries'.
we hope that such macro-regions will be models of good practice and success at european level, because they can benefit all their citizens and contribute to economic recovery and sustainable development through policy harmonisation and investment reorientation.
i support the implementation of the eu strategy on adriatic and ionian region, as it is fundamental for blue growth, for connecting europe, for environmental quality and sustainable and competitive tourism.
i am pleased to note that the final report of the committee on regional development also contains the suggestions made by myself and my colleagues in the opinion report of the committee on fisheries, as the adriatic and ionian sea region is a special case in terms of pollution and available marine resources.
the strategy will contribute to progress in identified priority areas such as the interconnection of electricity grids, the protection of marine ecosystems, the building of local administrative capacity or the development of sustainable tourism.
‒ i support the report on cohesion policy and the review of europe 2020, as cohesion policy is the key instrument for the implementation of europe 2020. it is the eu's main investment, growth and development policy, set in line with the europe 2020 strategy's objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and aims to reduce disparities between regions and promote convergence.
it must remain one of the eu's main investment tools for growth, job creation and climate protection, while ensuring balanced and harmonious development across the eu as a catalyst for change and a driver of prosperity.
‒ to achieve its objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for europe, the 2020 strategy correctly relies on five headline targets: employment; research and development; climate and energy; education; and the fight against poverty and social exclusion, translated by each member state into national targets.
‒ as the eu’s main instrument for economic growth and job creation, cohesion policy is best placed to help achieve the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
this objective is consistent with the eu's europe 2020 strategy, which focuses on increasing employment, increasing investment in research and development, digitising the economy, reducing emissions, energy efficiency, reducing school dropouts, reducing poverty.
i agree with the rapporteur that cohesion policy makes a significant contribution to achieving the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
we have to ensure that investments and innovation in the industry are stimulated, and we must make efforts to create sustainable and innovative jobs.
it is important that we improve the business environment, not least by ensuring a well—functioning single market for services.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
in order to take steps forward in that direction we have to act in the fields of the sharing economy, digitisation, and sustainable and responsible tourism.
we also know that during the preparations for the world radio communications conference member states signalled their support for allocation for satellite reception of automatic dependent surveillance broadcast atsb emissions from aircraft limited to messages transmitted in accordance with icao standards.
labour market reforms should be sustainable by increasing investment alongside reform of national labour markets, and taking measures to boost the economy in order to increase job creation rates.
i believe the four key priorities for economic growth will help to address the growth drivers that can allow the sustainable recovery europe urgently needs.
i support the possibility of creating sustainable jobs for the long-term unemployed, especially in countries and regions with high structural unemployment.
‒ clearly it is about time to have a harmonised and proportionate eu regulatory framework on the use of remotely piloted aircraft systems and to set out clear guidelines to the commission for the outlining of the upcoming aviation package, expected by the end of 2015. in order to reach this objective, we must ensure a ‘risk-based approach’ in line with the riga declaration ensuring ‘safety’; we must guarantee an adequate protection of citizens which respects fundamental rights of privacy and data protection; we have to ensure that investments and innovation in the industry are stimulated; and we must make efforts in order to create sustainable and innovative jobs.
to take steps in that direction, we have to act in the fields of the sharing economy, digitisation and sustainable and responsible tourism.
‒ i have voted for this report that will instate pan-european and transnational tourism products and sustainable and responsible tourism, taking into consideration that europe’s international visitors find themselves under increasing pressure from other international destinations, in particular from newly—emerging, less expensive destinations.
connectivity, sustainability, seasonality and shortage of skilled labour are few challenges which, if dealt with correctly, can help support the competiveness of our industry.
mr president, the european semester is one of our most important tools in tackling structural weaknesses, achieving sustainable growth and healthy finances, and promoting the competitiveness of the european economies.
even though some of the objectives have been achieved and others are ongoing, i believe it is essential for 2016 to introduce also new concepts in the context of the new social and economic situation, namely: a clear social dimension in the policies implemented by the commission; to refocus investments on the creation of growth and jobs, and especially sustainable growth and decent jobs; a policy regarding migration issues focused on long-term solutions and security of european citizens; and the development of new cooperation mechanisms that strengthen the european dimension at different levels of the eu society.
the commission warmly welcomes the support for this approach in parliament’s draft resolution and the emphasis put on the aeronautics industry as a major contributor to eu growth and jobs, and on innovation as a prerequisite of a competitive and sustainable aviation sector.
against this background, we have taken a close look at the eu’s regulatory environment.
there are many social matters that need to be addressed to ensure competitive and sustainable growth in aviation.
furthermore, it allows for improved capacity and environmental performance, less congestion and delays for passengers, and reduced costs for the aviation value network.
the sixth topic: the environment.
we must deal with the environmental impact of an ever—expanding sector.
i am confident that innovation and technical solutions can contribute to a reduced carbon footprint for aviation.
at the same time, the eu has put in place powerful regulatory tools to address co2 emissions.
that is why we must support this industry in absolutely every area, starting with infrastructure, with airports, with regional airports, with new infrastructure, because airports need it, and then with airlines, for whom we must ensure a fair competitive environment.
otherwise, it would be a waste of money and time.
mr president, i strongly support the future aviation package as it will provide a boost for a more sustainable european aviation industry, improve the competitiveness of the sector, strengthen european airlines, airports and the aeronautic industry, ensure a level playing field in the global market, and set out a long-term strategy for europe’s aviation sector.
it is very important that the package supports global environmental solutions, such as global market-based measures to address carbon dioxide emissions from international aviation.
unfortunately, the sector faces a number of challenges, on the one hand, from unfair competition from operators outside the union and, on the other hand, from market fragmentation, the costs of implementing environmental legislation and the lack of a unified vision on the competitiveness of the industry.
the isa 2 programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations is the basis for modernising public administrations in europe, improving the quality of public services, creating a competitive environment for businesses and at the same time improving the quality of life of the population, which is why i voted in favour of the report on interoperability solutions as a means of modernising the public sector.
‒ i strongly support the future aviation package, as it will provide a boost for a more sustainable european aviation industry, improve the competitiveness of the sector, strengthen european airlines, airports and the aeronautic industry, ensure a level playing field in the global market and set out a long-term strategy for europe’s aviation sector.
it is very important that the package supports global environmental solutions such as a global market-based measure to address co2 emissions from international aviation.
a clear recognition of the close interlinkage between peace, sustainable development, governance, gender equality, human rights and the rule of law in the 2013 agenda for sustainable development was just last week discussed in the security council under the united kingdom presidency, where the european union also delivered a statement.
commissioner, vice-president, i congratulate you on the work and efforts you have made so far to implement the energy union.
the socialist group, through its parliamentary work, is ready to support the commission's proposals and to work closely with the other european institutions to implement the measures necessary for an integrated internal energy market.
our economy and society are faced with energy imports from unstable regions, which make prices volatile.
the key to the energy union is the creation of a secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy market, with the aim of increasing the global competitiveness of the european economy by reducing and harmonising energy prices in europe and between member states.
an integrated energy market must first bring tangible benefits to consumers.
in addition to energy cost transparency, both industrial consumers and citizens need lower energy prices.
and last but not least, we social democrats support the commission's approach to fighting energy poverty and protecting vulnerable consumers.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mr president, madam president, we certainly agree that we need an energy union.
i think we need to build not just a common energy market, we need to really build an energy union.
unfortunately, i have to say with sadness that a country that is relatively energy independent like romania, like my country, doesn't have very many benefits.
we have raised the price of energy for private consumers, but unfortunately we are not able to export because there are no interconnections, because there is really no common market in energy, and many countries still protect their market at european level.
i trust that you are aware of these issues, you are aware of the need of consumers and private companies at european level to form a really efficient, really independent, really interconnected energy union, and i think that we need to find the means by which we can implement such an energy union.
– mr president, honourable members, firstly i would really like to thank you for a very rich debate which i think truly reflects the complexities and the challenges which we will be facing with our energy union project.
i would also like to thank you very much for the support you clearly highlight towards the introduction of the state of the energy union report, because i believe that we are equipping ourselves with a very important tool.
in the autumn we will have regular debates on how we are progressing with the energy union, what we have accomplished over the last year and what the challenges we are facing are and what the plans are for the next period.
i think that is very important, because i see this as a very important founding stone of the strong robust governance that this house was calling for when we were introducing the energy union strategy.
i think it is very important to see that all major economies – all the parties to this agreement – will show ambition and will show how decisively we are going to tackle climate change.
when it comes to our energy union in europe, i think that several of you highlighted where the real problems are.
first we need to make sure that we have our signals right, and by that i mean signals for carbon pricing – i agree with all of you that current carbon prices are not reflecting the cost and not driving in the necessary innovation we need in our energy and climate policies.
i believe that it will be the same in the negotiations on the ets reform, which we presented for the post-2020 period, because i believe that also by these activities we are already making very clear what the european policies are, how serious we are about a transition to the low—carbon economy and what kind of signals we want to send to investors.
it is quite clear that if you want to bring the investors in, and if we want to highlight how important active consumerism in this respect would be, we need to do much more for demand—side management, the flexibility of our electricity systems, better integration of renewables and giving more powers to consumers to decide if they want to produce the energy, from whom they want to buy and what kind of supply schemes they want to have for their households or for industries.
many of you spoke about energy security.
thank you very much for those strong words, because we are living in a political world, and i think that we also need to send very clear political messages that energy diversification is important, that if we speak about diversification we are talking about the routes but also sources of supply, that we want to have a wider range of energy suppliers and that lng will play a very important role in this respect.
i think we should see it as a priority, not only for the european commission, but for the whole energy union.
when it comes to the internal energy market, i agree with all of the members who said that it is high time we finally complete this, and that we complete it from the legislative point of view but also from the point of view of the hardware and software of the internal energy market.
let us have regular monitoring and a kind of regular inventory of where we are with this energy infrastructure project.
on energy efficiency: the first principle – and i think we are very clear here and we will be discussing with members this issue on many further occasions – is that we want to operationalise energy efficiency first – when we assess all the legislative proposals next year and when the member states consider new infrastructure, we will be calling upon them and discussing with them how at first to assess how much energy we can save, what we can do at national level, how we can improve our energy regions to make sure that, if we are progressing in this effort, we will do it on the most cost—efficient basis.
therefore, we need to make the next year, as several of you highlighted, the year of delivery, where we will put all the key elements on the legislative front on the table for parliament and the member states, and the council, to start the true negotiations on how we will transform the energy union proposals into valid legislation.
i want to put it on the table also because we want to call upon member states to start working as early as 2017 on draft national energy and climate plans, to make sure that they also develop their vision for 2030 and that they will tell us how they want to implement all these plans at national level, so we can see if the figures are adding up and if we need some further action to be undertaken.
then we can actually have the process which would make it possible, despite the energy mixes which are decided at national level, to have a common european framework, a common european goal and, i believe, good common european results.
one word, if you allow me, on energy poverty.
we deliberately highlighted this as one of the key messages of the state of the energy union, because it is true: we have more than 10% of europeans – more than 50 million european citizens – who are facing energy poverty and have problems paying for energy bills.
we have to take action on these issues and equip the people with new skills if they are from the traditional industries and offer them a future in these new low—carbon economies.
i also very much appreciate all those members of the european parliament who joined me on the energy union tour across european cities, across european enterprises and in all the citizen dialogues we had together.
in writing.– the energy union is an ambitious strategy that will allow the diversification of the european energy supply, in particular future aviation package gas imports, to move away from our dependence on russia, and should therefore be one of our main priorities.
i wish to see a much stronger focus on the citizen in the energy union and more measures to tackle energy poverty and help vulnerable consumers have affordable energy.
i strongly support the request for a commission communication and action plan on the state of the energy union.
finally, we should ensure that the energy transition is based on energy efficiency, renewable energies and smart infrastructure.
i appreciate the commission's initiative for its concern to have an energy union.
it is important to have common rules and a competitive energy market in the eu, but we need to make sure that the indicators set are achievable in all member states.
the stage of energy infrastructure improvement is different in each member state and therefore the investment volume is different, as is the time to complete it.
please note, commissioner, that we are talking about countries that have different energy efficiency building and energy mix.
i appreciate your proposal to review the 248 energy infrastructure projects of common interest, but i suggest that you take account of the actual situations on the ground, particularly in eastern european countries.
i see no concrete measures to avoid the negative effects in certain countries in the implementation of the energy strategy.
in addition to protecting vulnerable consumers, you must, commissioner, take into account the pace you set for the decline in carbon emissions so as not to affect the transport sector and, of course, jobs.
decarbonising energy is an important goal, but let's not forget to be careful not to de-industrialise the european union, given that the european union is not the biggest polluter in the world.
the annual reports presented by the european commission show that more steps have been taken this year towards strengthening the energy union, which will help reduce import dependency and carbon emissions.
however, several short-term objectives remain to be achieved: rapid reform of the certificate system to protect the interests of european industry and help avoid its relocation; interoperability of european networks, protection of vulnerable consumers and price adjustment; digitalisation of networks to increase energy efficiency.
the commission should come up with a legislative proposal to make an integrated internal energy market viable, based on cross-border regional cooperation and the exploitation of own resources in southern europe, as well as the new eastmed energy perspectives (cyprus, israel, lebanon, egypt).
europe needs to manage its electricity and gas networks intelligently, and take the necessary steps to ensure that the 28 energy policies currently in place are based on common governance.
from an energy perspective, 2015 was marked by tensions in the east, persistently low oil prices, new prospects opened up by the nuclear deal with iran, and a continued decline in domestic fossil fuel production.
nine months ago we launched a framework strategy for the energy union, and today the commission tells us that we have made significant progress towards creating a true internal energy market and the transition to a low-carbon, secure and competitive economy.
as a member of the european parliament from romania, a country which plays an important role in the current context of the regional energy market in south-east europe and where the energy sector is of strategic importance, i draw attention to a few things: we must make energy transform from a diplomatic instrument into an economic instrument, serving small and large consumers alike.
the social dimension of decarbonising the energy system is very important and needs to be addressed with great care, as the transition to a low-carbon economy will involve a profound change in many sectors of the national economy in member states such as romania, affecting companies and, by implication, jobs.
‒ the proposal for a decision on accession to the extended commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) aims to approve the exchange of letters between the union and the ccsbt so that the eu can become a full member, given that the european union has been a cooperating non-contracting party since 2006. the union has actively contributed to the sustainable and sound management of marine resources and to combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, pursuing a policy of cooperation with all regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo).
the signing of this instrument of international law will allow the eu to become a full member of the ccsbt extended commission, having enjoyed cooperating non-member status since 2006. the european union, in accordance with its commitments under the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982 relating to the conservation and management of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks, has been cooperating very actively with all regional fisheries organisations in a bid to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
the ultimate objective is the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and, not least, the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
i have voted for this report that will instate quality evaluation and monitoring mechanisms so that interventions lead to long-term and sustainable results.
the eu security environment is increasingly volatile due to the high number of security challenges.
we should therefore push for the establishment of a high-level dialogue on the implementation of the sustainable development goals.
in order to achieve them, further cooperation is required in the areas of education, health, climate action, food and nutrition, water, sanitation and hygiene, child protection, gender equality, social inclusion, humanitarian aid, migration, human rights, non-discrimination on all ground, good governance and democracy building.
in particular, i would like to underline that one of our main priorities should be the protection of children and of women, whose protection is crucial for the achievement of sustainable and equitable development for all.
in an increasingly volatile environment, the eu faces a number of security challenges, such as the conflicts in eastern ukraine, syria and iraq, the rise of the terrorist organisation isis and the terrorist threat in africa, and global responses are needed, as the eu cannot address these threats on its own, but needs the support of international partners.
but at this moment we must first stop any terrorist threat and attack on us and as such, some urgent measures are required: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's policy on the protection of the environment and the environment in the context of the implementation of the eu's policy on the protection of the environment.
i believe that this compensation should be harmonised and granted at european level to ensure a level playing field with global competitors and european producers, and to ensure effective protection against carbon leakage.
the european steel and aluminium industry is becoming uncompetitive, not because of technologies, but because of dumped imports and europe's own climate and energy policy.
it happens that basic metallurgical processes are moving from europe to emerging countries along with greenhouse gas emissions, emerging countries that are not subject to european standards.
by contrast, countries in europe are importing more and more steel and aluminium intermediates, reporting greenhouse gas reductions.
we need more balance in european climate and energy policies and we need firm action against dumped imports.
employees working in a safe and healthy environment will enjoy not only their lives but also their work, and thus they will be more productive.
in the current context it is essential for europe to promote a safe and healthy working environment for all workers throughout the entire working life cycle.
in order to establish a safer environment, we have to define a balanced framework in which security and liberty can coexist, as you cannot be free without being secure.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we have a responsibility to the european public to protect our citizens and the environment from hazards such as hazardous chemicals.
‒ given that bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (dehp) is a known toxic substance, classified by reach as a toxic substance of very high concern, affecting scientifically proven reproduction and the endocrine system in the environment.
on 12 december 2014, the member state committee (msc) unanimously agreed to the identification of dehp as a substance giving rise to an equivalent level of concern due to its endocrine disrupting properties in the environment(6); the msc unanimously acknowledged that, in the case of dehp, there is scientific evidence on endocrine disrupting activity and on the causal link between this activity and adverse effects on human health.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution by the environment committee and was glad to see that it had the overwhelming support of my colleagues.
identified as toxic to reproduction and an endocrine disrupter affecting the environment, it is very worrying that the commission granted a broad authorisation for a substance associated with birth defects and abnormalities.
the aim of the reach regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, yet the widespread use of this substance would likely pose a threat to both.
another direction is the prevention of terrorist-type radicalisation in the virtual environment, which has an important influence in the direction of terrorist militant mobilisation.
mr president, raising labour standards and the level of occupational health and safety is not just in the interest of workers but also in the interest of companies’ productivity and competitiveness, the sustainability of social security systems and of society at large.
‒ based on one of the european union's objectives that all workers have the right to the highest level of protection of health and safety at work, we need to focus our attention on the need to promote a safe and healthy working environment for workers throughout the entire working life cycle.
‒ i believe that ensuring a level playing field throughout the eu and eliminating unfair competition and social dumping is crucial and i believe that labour inspectorates play a key role in ensuring that workers' rights to a safe and healthy working environment are respected and in providing advice and guidance to employers, especially smes and micro-enterprises.
improving occupational health and safety across europe can contribute to economic recovery and to achieving the europe 2020 targets of reaching an employment rate of 75% among the population aged 20-64. health and safety at work is a fundamental interest of society and an investment that has a positive effect on the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises and also improves the sustainability of social security systems.
‒ a healthy, functional society needs healthy people, and a healthy work environment will improve employee productivity.
at the same time, let us be clear, georgia itself needs to ensure its internal stability, with a fair political environment, cross-party political support for key reforms and also a fair atmosphere in the electoral campaign.
it is all the more urgent that the government of afghanistan and all partners in the region engage credibly to end the conflict and ensure a stable environment with the support of the international community.
an afghan-led and afghan—owned peace process remains the prerequisite to any sustainable solution.
‒ trade liberalisation is an important tool for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development, an objective on which the european union was built and which remains the main factor of cohesion between member states.
‒ as the reform of the common agricultural policy is the european union's contribution to the expectations of the doha round, i believe that wto member countries must proactively support efforts to create efficient and effective channels of work and to strengthen wto cooperation with other international organisations whose work has an influence on global trade negotiations, in particular the international labour organisation, the world health organisation, the un and its agencies and bodies, such as the un conference on trade and development, the food and agriculture organisation, the un environment programme, the un development programme and the un framework convention on climate change.
finally, we also welcome the progress made so far in plurilateral negotiations such as the environmental goods agreement, the information technology agreement and the trade in services agreement with a view to their multilateralisation once a critical mass of participants has been reached.
the ecuadorian government has made numerous developments in recent years in all sectors, from protecting vulnerable social classes through strengthening human and workers' rights, to environmental rights, with ecuador hosting the highest concentration of species in the world's biodiversity.
‒ i support the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru, as it will open up markets and increase the stability and predictability of the trading environment.
i would like to call for a prompt implementation of the free trade agreement with ecuador, as it will contribute to reinforcing the social development model of the country, ensuring the necessary respective safeguard structures, the elimination of inequalities and the protection of workers, peasants and the environment.
however, the agreement will not only secure access to markets; more importantly it will also create a stable and predictable environment that will help boost and diversify trade and investment on both sides.
i highlight in particular the inclusion of trade and sustainable development provisions which will promote compliance and enforcement of the relevant ilo and environmental conventions in the three countries.
ecuador’s exports to the eu will benefit both parties involved as this will ensure progressive social development, as well as transparency and sustainable development of policies.
this does not, however, mean that the eu must renounce certain conditionalities that it is imperative that the ecuadorian side meet, such as the respect of certain social conditions for workers in this country and respect for the environment.
this framework covers issues relating to the livestock sector, but also to the environment, public health, the internal market and the free movement (of pet animals).
the circular economy has a direct impact not only on the environment, but also on jobs, industry, energy, research, etc.
the key actions in this package must aim at transforming the eu economy into a sustainable and competitive one.
last but not least, ensuring sustainable access to raw materials is essential for the competitiveness and growth of the eu economy and for the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
main raw materials, including renewable and secondary raw materials, need to play an important role in production processes in the circular economy.
most of them are environmental, such as the improvement of our living environment, the protection of scarce natural resources or the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
there are strong economic benefits as well, like the sustainable availability of raw materials, job creation within a more labour intensive production model and the decoupling of economic growth from the use of resources.
nevertheless, the real driver behind the need for a new economic and consumption model is that we do not have a choice; we are already witnessing the irreversible ecological damage we are doing to our land and marine environment.
there were more than 500 amendments, which demonstrates how much thought and energy went into it.
so it is logical that we have to tackle some serious challenges in urban areas: congestion, demographic change, road safety, access to mobility and air pollution, including co2.
first, sustainability and urban mobility plans.
let us reflect together on how we can support cities in attracting more investment and how this investment can support innovation and how innovation can support sustainability.
dear colleague, i understand that you agree that we need what the rapporteur and those who worked on the report said here, we need sustainability, urban mobility and, in the end, you said that you still have a problem with the fact that the use of diesel would be prohibited by amendments, to put it concretely.
the european parliament has been your best partner in these efforts, starting with the white paper on transport and ending with the vote on the report on sustainable urban mobility this evening.
dear colleagues, in the six years that i was general counselor of the municipality of bucharest, i understood that there is only one solution for our cities to prosper following the fourth industrial revolution: improving the environment, quality of life and health of citizens by ensuring safe, fast and sustainable urban mobility.
given the commission's assessment that urban areas are responsible for 23% of co2 emissions from transport and that this situation will only get worse as a result of increasing urbanisation if no action is taken, i think we can all agree that urban mobility developments are one of the most important areas of action that can shape our fight against climate change.
it is therefore important to design all our modes of transport from a sustainable development perspective, taking into account the social, economic and environmental impacts of transport.
i believe that the commission and the member states have a role to play in promoting a more effective sharing of good and innovative practices in sustainable urban mobility and the creation of public procurement systems that include environmental performance requirements to a greater extent than is currently the case.
in writing.– i support this initiative for the introduction of a sustainable urban mobility plan, financed by the eu budget, to protect the well-being and the safety of eu citizens and of the environment.
consequently, car emissions have also increased by 30% since 1990. it is therefore crucial to reverse this trend by redirecting urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport.
the report also stresses the importance of synergies between the commission and the member states to employ eu funding sources alongside the smart and sustainable mobility policies and projects, as well as the maximisation of these resources to achieve economic and social benefits.
i emphasise the need for cooperative networks at both european and national levels, as well as an in-depth consideration of the aforementioned prospective solutions – with the ultimate objective of making mobility in urban areas more sustainable.
but without european citizens who feel they are actors of sustainable development, without a genuine ownership of the 2030 agenda, we will not be able to move forward.
in this european year, we all agree on the importance of development policy, especially in the light of the migration phenomenon of recent months and the ongoing paris climate conference.
‒ sustainable urban mobility has to be one of our main priorities and a key to boost the social and economic conditions in cities whilst preventing growing inequalities and fighting against climate change.
i support the sustainable urban mobility plans as an important tool for providing adequate and safe mobility solutions for all citizens (including also persons with reduced mobility), improving quality of life in cities by fostering modal shift towards sustainable modes of transport, and promoting efficient, affordable, safe and accessible public transport as an integral part of sustainable urban development.
we need sustainable strategies that require investment.
for this reason, i did not vote for amendment no 32 part 3. reducing emissions is necessary to improve lives, but we need to gradually set targets that can be supported by investment without affecting jobs.
safety is essential to the development of any sustainable urban projects.
thus, i would like to call upon the member states to construct sustainable urban mobility plans.
i voted for this report that calls for a faster shift to more sustainable modes of transport taking into consideration that today the mobility of eu citizens is still essentially based on cars.
‒ there are numerous harmful effects of the current transport model on the fundamental elements of the natural environment, including air, water, soil and various ecosystems.
as there is no one-size-fits-all solution for urban areas, as cities in the european union have specific situations and needs, which are determined by geographical location, climate or demographic structure, safety must always be considered a key element of all sustainable urban transport plans.
energy efficiency and the use of energy from renewable sources, which imply a low level of carbon emissions, are essential for achieving sustainable urban mobility.
i believe that supporting urban mobility is possible and necessary for an integrated approach, with sustainable urban transport contributing to reducing energy consumption, air and noise pollution, accidents, traffic congestion, land use and soil sealing, and can also be one of the key drivers of sustainable economic growth.
i voted for the own-initiative report on sustainable urban mobility.
the report finds that the transition to more sustainable modes of transport is very slow.
the rapporteur therefore proposes that the european commission should require all member states and local authorities to have a sustainable urban mobility plan.
urban mobility needs to be reoriented towards sustainable modes of transport in order to meet the major challenges of this century: climate, health and environmental protection.
sure, it's important to have energy efficiency, balance the mix and reduce global warming.
mr president, commissioner, the debate tonight and the votes tomorrow are extremely important in defining the framework for the energy union.
the two own-initiative reports, 'towards a european energy union' and 'reaching the 10% electricity interconnection target', present important elements for creating a more secure, sustainable and competitive energy market.
member states are responsible for setting their own energy mix, with all targets on carbon reduction, energy efficiency and renewable energy being met.
we are concerned that there are member states that are far from meeting these targets for 2020. given the current context of our energy dependence on certain external factors, the achievement of a fully integrated internal market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the optimal use of the european union's energy resources, as well as research and innovation, would maximise the benefits for new industries and new technologies, while ensuring protection and support for the workforce and traditional industries.
the future governance framework for the energy union post 2020 needs to be ambitious, reliable, transparent, democratic, so that all legislative proposals in the energy union will have to be subject to the ordinary legislative procedure, which involves the full involvement of the parliament.
the energy mix is a national attribute.
we have to respect the environment, but also the needs of the economy.
coal must remain the raw material for energy production, with the application of modernisation and emission-related measures.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we launched the energy union framework strategy, we set out to target measures specifically on lowering energy costs for household consumers.
one year on, i am concerned that more work is needed to achieve an energy market that supports european households and where the reduction in energy prices is reflected in the bills paid.
the specific energy mix of each state should include both indigenous and locally or individually developed sources, in particular renewable sources.
a favourable investment climate for them can contribute to the modernisation of energy infrastructure.
in addition, access to low-cost energy-efficient technologies can encourage entrepreneurship, especially among young people.
energy security is an essential element of the energy union.
in this regard, projects linking the electricity markets of the cee region should be opened to the south-east and alternative energy supply routes should be continuously exploited.
the eu's internal energy market needs common standards for smart grids, which are key elements in ensuring stable supply and free flow of energy across borders, as well as investments in the interconnection of smaller-scale gas and electricity networks linking neighbouring regions.
in addition, such cooperation can contribute to the proper planning of energy demand and supply in the eu internal energy market and can ensure cost-optimal security of supply.
moreover, those interconnectors will allow electricity grids to redirect energy from surplus areas to deficit areas, thus allowing the market to respond instantly to supply shortages wherever they occur and to compensate for circadian and seasonal cycles.
in writing.– in light of the long-term target of achieving 80-95% reduction of greenhouse gases by 2050, the purpose of the future energy union is to ensure a free flow of energy across member states.
i support the initiative of a future energy union plan that enables eu consumers to access gas, electricity and heating in a sustainable, democratic and cost-effective manner.
according to the report, the eu’s fragmented energy market has a severe impact on europe’s competitiveness and energy security.
the report stresses the increased demand for an efficient internal energy market that can deliver energy taking into account factors such as safety, social and environmental responsibility and affordable distribution.
alongside market integration, price convergence is also a pressing concern taking into account the variable costs provided by different energy sources.
the report underlines that it is imperative to support local production of energy (primarily renewable) and to pursue up-to-date technological changes, alongside new modes of production and consumption trends such as electric vehicles.
as mentioned in the report, i emphasise the upmost importance of a cohesive internal energy market, alongside interconnectedness and resilience between the national and the union’s energy security and market objectives.
we are again discussing in the european parliament the single european energy market, which does not exist.
this is why european citizens pay more for energy.
in the absence of a single market and therefore of competition at european level, large national energy companies have the possibility of charging rents to consumers in each member state.
that is why it is time to make visible progress towards the achievement of the european single energy market.
given that dominica has fully integrated human rights and promotes the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and has made considerable efforts to diversify and offers real growth potential, in particular in the tourism and geothermal energy sectors, i believe that this agreement will boost tourism and contribute to strengthening trade and investment relations.
‒ the union has fought to promote and encourage democratisation and genuine and sustainable democracy in countries emerging from periods of political transition.
the visa waiver agreement must be viewed in a wider context as a tool for intensifying cooperation, in which context both parties have a shared interest in stabilising the macro-region and acting as sound and reliable partners in various fields such as combating terrorism, trafficking in persons and climate change.
strengthening bilateral relations would also be beneficial in order to coordinate actions to achieve regional stability in the gulf area, combat terrorism, human trafficking and climate change.
i believe that a sustainable approach to these types of resources and the generation of social benefits is necessary, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ the european union is a contracting party of the convention on future multilateral cooperation in northeast atlantic fisheries, which aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of the fishery resources of the north-east atlantic area, providing sustainable environmental and social benefits.
the convention aims at the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area and at the generation of sustainable social and environmental benefits.
‒ the report 'towards a european energy union' raises the issue of the global challenges facing the european union's energy system and highlights the need for a strategy to increase energy security, sustainability and accessibility.
the achievement of these targets is thus achieved with a view to ensuring security of energy supply and reducing emissions, especially as the eu's 2030 energy targets include a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions compared to 1990 levels.
furthermore, other dimensions to be achieved in order to build a secure and sustainable energy system are the completion of a fully integrated internal energy market at eu level, the reduction of energy consumption, which will lead to a reduction in energy imports and pollution, and, not least, the continuation of research and innovation projects.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a joint effort by all member states is needed to make energy safe, sustainable and accessible for the citizens of the union.
‒ the ep resolution of 5 february 2014 calls for the adoption of three mandatory targets: an energy efficiency target of 40%, a renewable energy target of at least 30% and a greenhouse gas emissions reduction target of at least 40% compared to 1990. the latter underpins the development of the decarbonisation dimension of the energy union and constitutes the most ambitious contribution to the international climate change negotiations with a view to a binding climate change agreement at cop 21 of the unfccc, paris, december 2015. i support a multidimensional approach to climate and energy policies for 2030, based on mutually reinforcing, coordinated and coherent targets on greenhouse gas emission reductions, renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
‒ i believe that the commission must step up its research efforts on better use of europe's energy resources and environmental mitigation, with a view to sustainable economic growth, job creation, industrial competitiveness and, in particular, meeting the eu's long-term climate and energy objectives.
‒ the two initiative reports ‘towards a european energy union’ and ‘achieving 10% electricity interconnection’ present important elements for creating a more secure, sustainable and competitive energy market.
given the current context regarding our dependence on energy from external factors, achieving a fully integrated internal market, security of supply, energy efficiency and optimal use of the energy resources of the european union, as well as ensuring support for research and innovation would maximise the benefits for new industries and for new technologies, while ensuring protection and support for labour and for traditional industries.
‒ the energy union is of paramount importance for european citizens, for european industry and for the creation of new jobs, especially in the renewable energy sector.
i voted for amendment no 59 because i believe that the use of hydraulic fracturing has serious consequences for the environment and human health.
i opposed amendment no 65 because raising the targets for the 2030 climate and energy targets is impossible for many member states to achieve.
‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding the creation of a resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy based on a transition towards a sustainable, forward-looking energy system with energy efficiency, renewable energy and best use of europe’s energy resources.
‒ the energy union is one of the most ambitious undertakings of the eu.
it is not a single piece of legislation, but an ongoing project that in the short to medium term will see the roll-out of directives, regulations, strategies and cooperation procedures on energy issues between member states.
the aim is to create an integrated system that will make energy more secure, affordable and climate-friendly for european citizens and businesses.
in this context, the european parliament presented its proposal on how to set the energy union in motion.
parliament’s report tackles complex issues such as technological choices, compatibility with climate objectives, diversification of energy resources and the governance of the energy union.
the report had my vote as i believe it presents a balanced and comprehensive set of recommendations that the commission and the member states should follow, if the energy union is to deliver on its promises.
‒ i have voted for this report regarding european energy policy that should ensure the functioning of the energy market, promote energy efficiency and savings and the development of renewable energy, ensure security of energy supply and promote the interconnection of energy networks.
‒ i voted in favour of this report in support of one of the most important policies of the european union, namely energy policy, which aims to ensure the security of energy supply, promote energy efficiency, energy saving and the development of renewable energy, and promote the interconnectivity of energy networks, as the energy mix of the member states is still very diversified.
it is clear that ensuring a more economically and physically integrated single energy market could lead to significant gains for member states.
in this regard, as suggested in the document, member states should support the development of well-integrated and competitive regional electricity and gas markets, ensuring the adequacy and flexibility of the energy system and covering all parts of the union.
i also welcome the report's proposal to take account of the development of the long-term energy strategy, with a view to the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050.
in writing.
‒ the european union is one of the world's largest energy-consuming actors.
for this reason, member states are constantly looking for new energy sources with the highest possible efficiency.
this objective can be better achieved within a european energy union, which provides a framework for the coordination of member states' energy policies.
the european commission's strategy for the energy union is based on the five dimensions of energy security, the integrated common energy market, energy efficiency, decarbonisation of the economy and research and innovation.
while diversification of sources is imperative for energy security, in terms of energy efficiency and decarbonisation of the economy, more ambitious renewable energy targets and the gradual reduction of the use of polluting fuels should be considered.
the completion of an integrated european energy common market will create the framework for competitive and favourable prices for both small and large consumers, to the benefit of us all.
‒ the european union is currently the world's leading energy importer, importing 53% of the energy it consumes, at an annual cost of around €400 billion.
old energy infrastructures, weak integration of energy markets, lack of coordination of national energy policies generally lead to consumers and businesses not having a wide range of options or lower prices.
in addition to uncompetitive energy prices and extremely high dependence on third country suppliers, climate change is threatening the sustainability of the european energy system.
improving energy interconnections between member states and modernising infrastructure would help to limit energy dependency and the risk of supply disruptions.
moreover, the construction of a common energy market would facilitate access to energy markets across national borders.
this would ensure secure and sustainable energy sources and affordable prices for eu citizens and businesses.
i therefore voted in favour of the report entitled 'towards a european energy union'.
‒ the report on the preparation of europe's electricity network for 2020 underlines the importance of a forward-looking policy, in which the union commits to increasing electricity interconnection to 10% by 2020. this is a valuable objective, setting a safe and sustainable direction for the electricity system.
i support the ep's motion for a resolution because i believe that renewable energy, energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix that leads to energy savings and leads to an internal energy market that allows the free flow of energy are important means for a stable, independent, secure, transparent, inclusive and competitive energy system in the eu, which generates quality jobs in a sustainable, future-oriented economy.
consider the creation of such a system and the elimination of energy islands as a major political priority of the european union.
‒ i support the need to determine a future electricity interconnection target based on the eu's long-term climate objectives, as well as a sustainable energy system to which the european union aspires.
we need strong political support and new measures to ensure europe’s electricity network is properly connected in order to avoid member states being isolated, ensure a true internal energy market as part of the energy union and bring down the costs of integrating renewable energy into the grid.
‒ i voted in favour of this report regarding electricity interconnection, which is one of the key preconditions for completing an integrated internal electricity market, which will help to improve the eu’s geopolitical position through greater energy security and independence and to achieve our climate objectives, including the eu’s aim to be the leader in renewables.
‒ an interconnected european electricity system would bring electricity prices down, reduce productivity losses in the commercial and industrial sectors and stimulate the growth of the european renewable energy industry.
‒ we cannot talk about energy security in the current geopolitical context in the eastern part of the european union without the member states reaching the 10% electricity interconnection target.
we need serious investment projects both in achieving this target by 2020 and moving towards 15% by 2030, and in energy storage infrastructure and facilities until the level of interconnectivity and thus market integration is high enough.
we are talking about an energy union, but without exploiting the opportunities for developing cross-border energy markets, we will remain at the current stage of fragmentation.
moreover, we will fail to take advantage of the energy resources specific to each member state and continue to pay import bills that entail high energy prices for industry and individual consumers.
‒ energy efficiency can lead to energy savings, leading to an internal energy market that allows the free flow of energy.
these are important means for a european energy system that becomes more stable, independent and competitive and that would create high-quality jobs.
one of the most important aspects of the report is that investment in the necessary interconnection projects, which have a high pan-european significance, could reach eur 150 billion by 2030, underlining that electricity prices could be reduced by at least eur 2/mwh and europe could meet part of its energy needs from renewable energy sources.
the report underlines, inter alia, that central and south-eastern europe has a vast renewable resource potential that is largely untapped.
i voted in favour of this report because cooperation and coordination on long-term planning and construction of regional grid infrastructure is needed, given that the dependence on energy imports, especially from the baltic region, which is still synchronised with the russian electricity system, needs to be significantly reduced.
‒ the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) included among its objectives the achievement of maximum sustainable yield, applying an ecosystem approach.
it should seek to improve the conservation and sustainable exploitation of stocks and implement the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management in a way that is consistent with the socio-economic viability of the fisheries sector.
i believe we must support strongly the call for a solid scientific approach to improving the conservation and sustainable exploitation of stocks, minimising the impact on the marine environment, fighting iuu fishing, supporting fishermen, in particular traditional sustainable fishing practices and small-scale fishing, training, innovation, research, involvement of all relevant stakeholders in the decision-making, and regular re-evaluation.
in 2013, the common fisheries policy was reformed to establish maximum sustainable yield using an ecosystem approach.
in this context, it is necessary to apply without delay the measures required by the reformed system, such as the avoidance of bycatch of juvenile fish and other by-catches, the conservation and sustainable exploitation of existing stocks, the minimisation of the impact on the marine environment, the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, the support of traditional fisheries, the support of research and innovation in the field, the involvement of all relevant decision-makers and the periodic reassessment of the policy.
madam president, it is clear to me and, i think, to all my colleagues: global warming concerns us all, regardless of our political colour and political preferences.
i honestly didn't understand what the euro had to do with carbon emissions, but you made a statement: you said that what happened in paris actually saved the politicians.
i think what happened in paris is a need, and everyone here, regardless of political choice, has to support the framing of climate change indicators.
mr president, the paris agreement, the first ever binding global climate deal, is a testament to the strong movement that climate activists from all over the world have built after the failed copenhagen summit of 2009. i would like to express my thanks for the work of all the committed people who made this deal possible and, especially, the representative of the commission for forging a strong alliance and france for brokering an outcome that surpassed the expectations of many.
an unprecedented political recognition of the risk of climate change, the agreement is a new source of hope and optimism, sending investors and business a clear signal that it is worth investing in the transition to renewable energy.
i would like to welcome the paris agreement and the commitment of all states to this fight against climate change.
we are indeed talking about an important moment for the blue planet, for our health, but now we must also act on these goals and review the way we produce and consume energy.
the european union must maintain its leadership for a climate-neutral world, for a zero-emission economy.
i could mention climate change and sustainable development – as cop21 has just ended in paris – and the position, agreed by the eu and china at the end of june this year, certainly played an important role.
both occupational and demographic mobility play a central role in sustainable and balanced development.
the commission's proposed list also does not address the issue of invasive alien species in a comprehensive manner, so as to protect local biodiversity and ecosystem services and to minimise and mitigate the economic and human health impacts that these species may have.
in view of the criticisms from the competent national authorities, stakeholders and the general public, a point has been reached where the effectiveness of the ias regulation is called into question, with many of the most problematic invasive alien species not being included in the list, while some species that cannot have a significant negative impact on biodiversity, ecosystem services, human health or the economy have been eventually included.
the commission’s initial list has been criticised by several competent national authorities, stakeholders and the general public, to the extent that they are now seriously doubting the future effectiveness of the ias regulation, mainly because many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not listed, while some species incapable of causing a significant negative impact on biodiversity, ecosystem services, human health or the economy.
‒ alien invasive species are not new, but they are expected to increase in number and severity because of the trends in global trade and climate change.
we do need legislation to help minimize negative environmental impacts, and this includes an authoritative list of species which could pose a threat.
this will help member states implement the legislation and protect against the damaging environmental effects of alien invasive species.
in order to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market, i support the objection to the implementing act of the commission.
‒ i have voted for this report that underlines the importance of risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity, prior to the authorisation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) such as maize.
‒ this year marks 40 years since the start of diplomatic relations between the eu and china, which are extremely important for both sides in finding common answers to a range of global issues such as global security, the fight against terrorism, cyber security and climate change.
i strongly support the call for finding mutual answers to a range of global concerns and identifying common interests, such as global and regional security, counter-terrorism, the fight against organised crime, cybersecurity, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development.
i am especially worried about environmental degradation in china, which has taken on dramatic proportions and i believe that more urgent, strong and targeted government action is needed.
‒ i have voted in favour of this report that will establish a new connectivity platform with the aim of creating a favourable environment for sustainable and interoperable cross-border infrastructure networks between eu countries and china.
‒ i have voted for this report that reiterates the key importance of a strategic partnership between eu and china in order to find mutual answers to global security, financial and market regulation, energy security and climate change, as well as sustainable development of a framework that can respond to bilateral concerns.
‒ this report covers the relations between eu and china, which began 40 years ago, covering political, economic, environmental, social and human rights aspects.
initially, the report calls for enhanced coordination and cooperation between the eu and china in areas of strategic significance, such as security, climate change, sustainable development, market governance and regulation.
given that by 2050 one billion people are likely to be displaced as a result of climate change, concerted action is needed and there is a need to build trust and to expand cooperation between private sector groups, ngos, local authorities, international organisations and governments.
‒ globally, humanitarian responses are increasingly needed as a result of the challenges posed by rapid population growth, demographic change, urbanisation, the increase in the number and severity of natural disasters, environmental degradation, desertification, climate change, long-term and simultaneous conflicts with regional impact, and resource scarcity, coupled with the consequences of poverty, migration, inequalities, forced displacement and vulnerability.
the european base metals industry is currently facing massive investment losses to third countries, which are caused by the comparatively higher level of energy prices and the cost of carbon dioxide emissions.
the european base metals industry is facing massive investment losses to third countries, mainly due to the comparatively higher level of energy prices and the cost of carbon dioxide emissions.
i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry.
‒ i believe that energy-intensive industries must continue their efforts to optimise recycling mechanisms and reduce co2 emissions, in order to ensure industrial competitiveness in the future and to meet the mandatory reduction targets set by the european union.
there have been such significant adjustments in capacity that any upturn in european demand will give rise to an unprecedented trade deficit in europe that would engender dependency and the loss of industrial know-how and is bound to have a knock-on effect on the downstream automotive, construction and low-carbon technologies sectors.
steel and aluminium are two prime examples of the difficulties faced by those working in such industries, which must continue to modernise in energy and environmental terms when this means following an investment policy which few can currently afford.
thus, while climate change policy is in no way the root cause of the problems facing these industries, it may well be so in the future if the investment crisis continues and if no european industrial policy on raw materials and base metals is implemented.
rising energy prices, stiff and sometimes unfair global competition or excessive regulatory burdens have all contributed to a decrease in the competitiveness of the european base-metals industries in general.
‒ i have voted for this report that will pursue the coordination of the carbon emissions allowance, reuse procedures of base metals, forward-looking investments with impact on health and safety, as well as the development of a circular economy, factors that are absolutely vital for europe’s economy.
the european steel and metal industry is in a difficult situation, due to a significant decline in demand in recent years, which affects both the workforce employed in the sector and other economic sectors such as machine building, building construction and low carbon technologies.
the energy and environmental modernisation of these sectors requires an investment policy that few of the companies concerned can currently afford.
the creation of the carbon market in 2005 was in line with the eu's strategy to combat climate change, but it created additional burdens for member states' economies.
border adjustment can be the solution to avoid the abandonment of the fight against climate change by european sectors at risk of carbon leakage by promoting fair competition between european and non-european producers.
this measure can also be applied on a temporary and flexible basis and carbon leakages can be prevented by taking the whole sector into account.
border adjustment is the basis of a base metal economy where reducing emissions is linked to investing in reducing those emissions, which are thus profitable.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the development of a sustainable european base metals industry, as the european base metals industry is currently facing a significant drop in demand as well as strong global competition, mainly from third countries that do not apply the same high standards and strict regulations as in europe.
in this respect, the european base metals industry needs to regain its global competitiveness and a first step in this direction would be the creation of a common energy market, as higher energy prices in europe significantly limit the competitiveness of this industry.
in addition, there are numerous sectors that depend on this industry, such as automotive, aeronautics, energy production, construction and packaging.
in this respect, i believe that the development of new energy-efficient products and new production processes is needed if the eu is to withstand increasingly fierce global competition.
we therefore stressed the need to ensure that the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is underpinned by the human rights-based approach.
mr president, political interference in the maldivian judiciary undermines the credibility of the country’s judicial system, and the reported detention and intimidation of government opponents contributes to a climate of instability in this country.
‒ i supported the decision to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate emission measurements in the automotive sector, which will, inter alia, keep under review the test cycles used to measure emissions, investigate the alleged failure of the commission and the member states’ authorities to take proper and effective action to oversee the enforcement and to enforce the explicit ban on defeat devices, and investigate the alleged failure of the commission to introduce tests reflecting real-world driving conditions in a timely manner and to adopt measures addressing the use of defeat mechanisms.
the objectives of this agreement are to promote human and social development, to promote institutional reform and sustainable development, to promote sustainable management and environmental regeneration and best practices in this field and the conservation of natural resources, to prevent and address the consequences of climate change, and to support policies and instruments aimed at progressive integration into the world economy and trade.
the inclusion of croatia as a contracting party to the agreement reaffirms the major strategic importance of the republic of vietnam as a partner of the union and the positive impact of such an agreement on the economic and social level, as well as in areas such as trade, human rights, migration, regional security, energy, science and technology.
‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption; economic, social & environmental progress must take into account the principle of sustainable development.
the objectives of this agreement are to promote human and social development, to promote institutional reforms and sustainable development, to promote sustainable management and environmental regeneration and best practices in this field and the conservation of natural resources, to prevent and address the consequences of climate change, and to support policies and instruments aiming at progressive integration into the global economy and trade.
‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption; economic, social and environmental progress must take into account the principle of sustainable development.
i believe that a strengthening of this partnership can be a valuable tool to respond to global and regional challenges, to make progress in economic and social terms, but also in areas such as trade, human rights, migration, regional security, energy, science and technology.
‒ i welcome this well-balanced report that takes into account our opinion and underlines important considerations across a broad range of norms and rights, such as human rights, democracy, social, political, labour, the situation of women and children, environment and fair trade.
i believe we need a broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, drawing it closer to the eu and helping it on the road of reform towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption; i support economic, social and environmental progress taking into account the principle of sustainable development.
given the significant number of unemployed and those at risk of social exclusion, concrete measures, ambitious and prompt plans are needed to ensure a union based on sustainable development, on equity, ensuring the creation of more jobs, enhanced economic growth and a high level of prosperity for citizens.
human rights must be at the core of our development agenda: we therefore stressed the need to ensure that the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is underpinned by a human rights based approach.
another point i want to stress in this explanation of vote is the relationship between the business environment and human rights.
we are aware that the uncontrolled spread of weapons poses a serious threat to peace and security, but also to human rights and sustainable development.
at the same time, however, the global security environment has seen a worrying proliferation of armed conflicts with high civilian casualties, many of them close to the union's borders and adversely affecting member states.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on arms exports, as the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons poses a serious threat to peace and security, human rights and sustainable development.
‒ access to biological plant material encompassing plant traits is absolutely necessary for boosting growth and innovation and developing new varieties in order to guarantee global food security, tackle climate change and prevent monopolies within the breeding sector, while at the same time providing more opportunities for smes.
‒ virunga national park (vnp) is africa's oldest national park and a unesco world heritage site, recognised worldwide for its unique habitats with the highest biodiversity in africa.
‒ the virunga national park is a park rich in biodiversity in africa, and a unesco world heritage site.
however, oil and logging concessions were permitted there, especially for the benefit of european companies, in violation of international environmental agreements signed by the drc.
the commission has to make active steps and build viable strategies to help protect virunga national park and to support sustainable development in the democratic republic of congo.