mr president, colleagues, when assessing the italian presidency, we must not forget that the past six months were probably the most challenging from the perspective of foreign policy: from the russian aggression in ukraine to the rise of islamic state (isis) in iraq and syria, which have fundamentally altered europe’s strategic environment.
however, the transport system is still not sustainable.
its sustainability is one of the essential attributes for making it work more efficiently.
under the new rules, member states can also ban the cultivation of gmos on grounds of environmental protection or agricultural policy.
in writing - i supported the motion for a resolution to allow member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gm crops for reasons other than environmental criteria.
we have unrealistic climate targets, absurd workplace safety regulations, and absurdly high social protection.
the eu is already talking about mobilising €315 billion by the end of 2017 to help tackle the challenges of climate change.
the extremely volatile international environment, hybrid wars and terrorist attacks or political extremism are in sharp contradiction to our international goals and values.
we need to make better use of the eu potential to shape our political and security environment, not merely to react.
europe urgently needs investment in transport, energy, telecommunications infrastructure, digital, cultural and creative industries, education, science, research and innovation.
we need the commission to prepare legislative proposals for the creation of an energy union.
the commission should also focus from the outset on improving the environment for job creation.
global warming is largely caused by human activities, not by natural climate fluctuations.
the biosphere is able to absorb a smaller and smaller proportion of the increasing carbon dioxide emissions.
while air temperatures have not risen in recent years, the heat capacity of the system is constantly increasing because of greenhouse gases.
the european union has always been at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
we need to develop an environmental action plan that significantly reduces carbon emissions, while increasing our competitiveness, creating new jobs and generating economic benefits for europe.
for example, when a child from a bad social environment doesn't get into kindergarten, when a child does get into school, but for years he learns old and unusable theory.
you have to improve the business environment, and in doing so, you also save a lot of money that can be left to entrepreneurs.
this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment.
of course, the accession of these countries to the hague convention is welcome, since the most important thing in such cases is that the child is placed as soon as possible in a stable, peaceful, loving environment.
this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment.
this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment.
this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment.
this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment.
this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment.
this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment.
this will increase the protection of children in the event of abduction on the territory of the contracting states and may thus help to speed up the return of the child to his or her natural environment.
in writing the objective of this agreement in the sustainable fisheries sector is to create a new framework for cooperation between the republic of senegal and the european union, as the number of european union vessels authorised to fish for tuna in senegalese waters has decreased significantly from 18 to 2 vessels as a result of the non-renewal of the protocols.
after all, all humanitarian aid must ultimately be linked and directed towards a secure political environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
it is therefore essential to create a business environment that stimulates research and supports the competitiveness of the sector.
the need to review these models is also closely linked to the adverse demographic situation and related pressures on the sustainability of health financing in europe.
commissioner, i would like to congratulate you on the excellent energy union strategy that we really need very urgently in the european union.
the 28 different national economies show how something does not work when it does, or when individual member states try to do everything on the basis of their own country, and your project, which you have presented and which, as i have noticed from the debate, has been a great success throughout the european parliament, is a project that is also moving the european union forward in the field of energy.
it is a great pity that the crisis in ukraine has shown us how huge a problem energy security can be for us at a time when the russian federation decides to block energy supplies to europe, to individual member states.
since then, we have done a lot to strengthen the eu's energy security.
in the electricity sector, we need to ensure continuity of supply and diversification of technologies, especially in the field of renewable energy sources, because this is where the improvement of security of supply will come from.
the transition from fossil to renewable energy sources, as well as the change in the energy mix, the nominal growth of wind and solar energy, together with the construction of the internal electricity market, require significant investments in the rebuilding of the interconnection system in europe.
reducing energy demand is one of the most effective tools for saving and reducing external energy dependence.
buildings account for 40% of the eu 's energy consumption (and 1/3 of natural gas) building retrofits and insulation can reduce this consumption by 50 to 75% .with renewables, the cost of such production will fall we need to build smart grids and solve energy storage .
the cost of energy from conventional fossil fuels will rise as extraction becomes more difficult and expensive the eu will fund energy research and innovation, another source of future savings.
slovakia fully supports the efforts of the juncker commission and its slovak vice-president maroš šefčovič on the issue of the european union's energy self-sufficiency and resource diversity.
the eu and the sr share common objectives, namely better prices for the customer, a reduction in energy imports from russia, and thus a better competitiveness of europe.
in writing the energy union strategy, presented by slovak european commissioner maroš šefčovič, focuses on five interrelated points: security of energy supply, the internal energy market, consumption efficiency, carbon reduction, and research and development.
it is expected to implement up to 40 specific activities and initiatives at pan-european level between 2015 and 2017. the draft strategy will make energy security one of the union's main priorities.
but i am keeping my fingers crossed for our european commissioner, mr šefčovič, to make the most of his ambitious energy union plan.
the assistance provided should be focused as a priority on the employees who, due to their age and qualifications, are the most difficult to recruit on the labour market and on the adoption of measures that will lead to sustainable employment.
the two undertakings concerned are in the steel industry, which is one of the most energy intensive sectors.
if the eu really wants to combat redundancies in this sector, it should fundamentally rethink its climate policy instead of making ad hoc contributions.
it is clear that all sectors should contribute together to the transition to a sustainable economy and the energy union.
however, in the case of trucks, which are responsible for up to 26% of emissions, this contribution is not made and the economy of their operation has not improved in any significant way over the last 20 years.
the economic and financial crisis has clearly shown how difficult it can be to obtain funding for transport infrastructure projects, manufacturing or renewable energy projects.
i welcome the work towards the establishment of a fund for long-term investment, because while building infrastructure in transport, energy and digitalisation has a long-term return, without quality infrastructure we cannot improve the environment for job creation.
moreover, the oecd projects that fully equal participation in the labour market would result in a gdp per capita increase of 12,4% by 2030. ignoring them is a luxury we cannot afford in the current economic climate.
for a healthy and strong society, it is important that the work and energy devoted to raising children, who will lead and direct this society in the future, be valued.
finally, i join the call for member states to introduce new eu public procurement rules in a timely manner, including social, environmental and innovative features, which will allow public authorities to make better choices.
competition policy is a policy conducive to a healthy, competitive business environment, and therefore state aid must be allocated only in a way that does not distort competition, favours large companies over small and medium-sized enterprises, foreign investors over domestic ones.
i therefore welcome the fact that, thanks to the new rules, the anti-fraud environment at national level has been considerably strengthened over the last five years.
we should also continue to advocate a media environment that is free of political interference and one in which journalists can freely conduct their profession.
the fisheries management area is managed by a regional organisation (rfmo) whose main objective is to promote the development, conservation and rational management of living marine resources, as well as the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and black seas.
in writing ‒ i welcome the fact that the three pillars of the budget are employment, enterprise and entrepreneurship for sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union.
we will also highlight the contribution of the european union budget to economic, social and territorial cohesion and its potential for energy transition and energy networking for job creation and growth.
last but not least, we call on montenegro to make progress on environment and climate change by strengthening administrative capacity and promoting a green economic model.
investment plans must be geared to promoting sustainable growth, creating quality jobs and fostering social progress.
in particular, i see a great need for training individuals and companies in the digital age, including the introduction of the latest technologies in the energy sector.
in writing ‒ one of the main objectives of respecting fundamental human rights is to protect children and to ensure a safe environment for their uninterrupted development.
the internet environment puts children at particular risk because they have very easy and virtually unrestricted access to child sexual abuse material, are themselves easily manipulated, are exposed to bullying, intimidation many times without even realizing it.
in the online environment, sexual abuse can take many forms, with young people being persuaded or forced to post their own sexually explicit images online.
madam president, the eu’s international environment is volatile, with dire security challenges that range from long—lasting conflicts to the steady rise of authoritarianism and extremism.
the tanzanians are already in a difficult situation because of the corruption and the environment that reigns in their country, and because of the way that many of them are exploited for their illiteracy.
the dramatically deteriorating security environment near the borders of the european union, for example in the slovak republic's neighbourhood of ukraine, points to an ongoing transformation of the global political order.
the fight against terrorism, dealing with the influx of refugees into the european union, arms control, energy security and the need to increase the defence capabilities of member states are just some of the many issues that the european union urgently needs to address in the interests of its security.
respect for human rights, including economic, cultural, social and environmental rights, access to food, peace, security and access to a fair and effective judiciary, is a fundamental prerequisite for reducing poverty and inequality in individual member states, but also in the world.
the report also intends to influence areas such as fiscal policy, migration, climate policy, asylum and migration policy, and so on.
i therefore support the adoption of european management measures and the establishment of a multiannual management plan to ensure that the silver moray population exceeds the maximum sustainable yield.
but i will ask two things, or i will speak about two things that are important from this last council meeting: and that is the discussion on the energy union and how we will proceed further on ukraine.
i think the energy union is one of the best projects that awaits us.
so that it's not a project that will benefit big companies, energy companies, but that it's a project that will benefit citizens.
the most important was the energy union strategy presented by commission vice-president maroš šefčovič, which will play a major role in europe's future.
diversification of energy sources, emission reductions, energy efficiency, new technologies and energy and climate innovation will bring economic growth and savings for large and small energy consumers.
the highlight of the last european council was the progress made towards building the energy union.
proposals for the functioning of the energy union are still at a very early stage and their possible harmfulness will depend in particular on the concrete application of these proposals.
in particular, i welcome the removal of the various administrative barriers between countries in the context of building the energy union.
but a strong emphasis on 'energy efficiency', which in practice leads to the adoption of absurd regulations, or a strong emphasis on the absurd rigidity of climate targets, will hardly be beneficial for the eu economy.
if the european union wants to ensure that workers do not suffer as a result of 'globalization', it should itself review its policies that reduce the competitiveness of eu companies, in particular its unreasonably strict climate targets.
the country needs structural changes, improved public administration, the elimination of corruption, or a stronger business environment.
and it's unfair to other entrepreneurs who expect predictability and sustainability from clear tax rules.
they are destroying the entrepreneurial environment, and it is true that this raises questions about the political credibility of many countries.
i voted in favour of the report because it contains many elements which can be an effective tool in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and which, in the long term, can create the conditions for new jobs and sustainable growth.
the council also proposed two other amendments, which should, firstly, help the social protection committee to focus not only on sustainable healthcare but also on its accessibility to all social strata, and secondly, better coordination of socioeconomic policies is also needed.
we must always bear in mind the impact on job creation in particular, and therefore reduce the administrative burden and simplify the overall environment.
this would minimise the potential risk to life and property as well as the risk to the marine environment during operations on board vessels.
this is another way to save at least some of the taxpayers' money from further waste.
‒ the biofuels agreement voted today is a balanced compromise between the eu's environmental objectives and the legitimate interests of agricultural operators and biofuel producers.
‒ the european commission's proposal, presented in october 2012, aimed to start the transition to biofuels, which would ensure that greenhouse gas savings are achieved, also taking into account indirect land-use change emissions.
if we are to produce biofuels at all, we would rather make them from waste unsuitable for use in the food or feed industry.
i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on the council position on the fuel quality directive and the directive on energy from new renewable sources.
the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources sets a mandatory target of 10% renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020. another directive introduced a mandatory target of 6% reduction in greenhouse gas emission intensity from fuels used in road transport and non-road mobile machinery by 2020. the commission's position and its alignment with the european parliament's amendments will be important in the final form of both directives.
‒ currently, 90% of nylon waste used for purchases in the european union is used once before it is discarded.
this is a huge environmental burden, as 8 billion plastic bags are discarded in nature every year.
the new european legislation approved is therefore designed to reduce excessive and sometimes unnecessary waste generation.
it is a milestone that we have managed to adopt binding measures at eu level to reduce waste generation.
i was happy to support the adoption of the new eu legislation, as it will not only effectively reduce nylon waste but also encourage environmentally conscious consumer behaviour.
this will help to create a cleaner, more liveable european environment.
i also think it is important to encourage eu citizens and businesses to protect the environment in this way.
‒ for the first time in the 40-year history of european waste legislation, the sustainable reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic bags and the imposition of this obligation on member states represents a significant step forward.
‒ the commission's declaration of acceptance of the agreement amending directive 94/62/ec as regards the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags is a qualitative step forward in the field of the introduction of rules on the consumption of these goods, which have negative environmental impacts.
it is in the interest of all of us that the member states of the european union should move as soon as possible to introduce clear and firm rules that will lead to a reduction in plastic bags with a thickness of less than 0.05 mm, so that the measures taken take account of the economic and social situation in the country and at the same time strengthen environmental protection.
‒ the neglect of plastic bags by consumers and businesses has a serious negative impact on the environment, given the large amounts of waste and pollutants that they release into the environment, including water.
studies show that the average european uses around 200 plastic bags a year, with almost 90% of them ending up in waste after a single use.
such behaviour is unacceptable and it was therefore necessary to guide the behaviour of economic operators so that they do not waste and prefer greener substitutes.
i consider it a major positive step for the eu to have adopted, for the first time in the forty years of european waste legislation, binding measures at eu level to reduce waste generation.
perhaps we can finally stop the madness of plastic bag pollution.
i believe that with positive examples and ideas, we can actually engage half of the environmental consciousness.
today, we can say that the amount of such waste would create a new continent.
as citizens, we need to rethink our shopping habits in order to keep the ecosystem clean.
plastic waste is a major environmental problem in each member state.
the sorting and separation of waste is inadequate and, if it is, plastic waste is not recycled but incinerated, which again negatively affects the environment.
‒ the economic instruments are the most effective way of protecting the environment.
90% of plastic bags are used once, which has a negative impact on the environment.
environmental protection can thus also be guaranteed by reducing the consumption of single-use goods that require a long recycling time.
one hundred billion plastic bags are consumed in europe every year, and their overuse has a catastrophic impact on the environment.
but the most important thing is to gradually change people's minds so that they stop using single-use plastic bags and think more about recycling and the environment.
‒ after a complex trilogue, the european parliament, together with the council and the commission, has worked out a proposal that optimises the provision of carbon dioxide reductions in maritime transport.
maritime transport is one of the most important sectors of the economy and employment in the european union and it is essential that the european parliament also looks to this important industry to ensure that environmental rules are respected.
although maritime transport is a major factor in the development, integration and growth of the internal market with tangible benefits for the european economy, i would point out that overseas and trans-oceanic shipping generates 1.2 billion tonnes of co2 per year, representing 4.5% of global greenhouse gas production.
i also find it unacceptable that ships produce a lot of nitrogen and sulphur oxides in addition to co2, which have a significant impact on global climate change and damage to public health.
i supported the resolution because we see reducing global greenhouse gas emissions as one of the ways to make the most effective contribution to meeting the eu's climate goals.
i also supported the report because i am concerned by the statement by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) that emissions from ships should increase by a further 30% by 2020. i hope that the adoption of this report will finally put the emissions on hold and give some thought to those governments which have ignored shipping emissions.
‒ given the strong impact of biological interactions and environmental effects on cod, herring and sprat populations in the baltic sea, it is necessary to adapt the rates and techniques of their exploitation to new scientific knowledge on interactions and changes in environmental conditions.
such an approach would also be consistent with the ecosystem approach to fisheries management.
these investments will also have a very positive impact on the european union's environmental and climate objectives in the future.
wood is an important sustainable and ecological raw material, the management of which has an impact on other sectors of the economy, in particular the wood processing industry and the production of energy from renewable sources.
it is therefore necessary to establish a framework for economic activities in forests in such a way as to preserve their ecological and environmental function while ensuring the efficient and economic management of wood as an important sustainable raw material.
‒ forests and wood as a sustainable raw material play an irreplaceable role in the ecosystem.
in managing forests, we must also take into account their multifunctional role from an economic, social and environmental perspective.
although 50% of europe's forests are privately owned, owners must ensure that forests fulfil their ecological, economic and social function on a sustainable basis.
sustainable forest management means ensuring that forest cover is preserved for future generations in the long term.
i think we should invest much more energy in european political integration, in our unity, and not lament the fact that we are giving up pieces of our national sovereignty when we are making decisions that are in the interests of european citizens.
the european court of auditors itself is the best example of the waste of european taxpayers' money.
however, to create sustainable conditions, it is necessary to encourage young people to start businesses, simplify the rules for entrepreneurship and reduce the administrative burden.
in addition to democratising society, fighting corruption and making public administration more efficient, it is essential to establish a constructive and sustainable political dialogue and to intensify its cooperation with the european union.
this double standard in spending taxpayers' money is wrong and leads to potentially greater waste.
this is an adjustment to the budget for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
this is an adjustment to the budget for the european environment agency.
such a low level of recovery can be considered a waste of public funds.
not to mention waste, like in the congo, where more than half the projects have failed.
we need to balance all of these if we want a sustainable european alcohol strategy with real results.
the business environment and the drive for a functioning market economy have improved in recent times, but the government must continue to address shortcomings in treaty and rule of law enforcement and combat the informal economy.
in addition to democratising society, fighting corruption and making public administration more efficient, it is essential to establish a constructive and sustainable political dialogue and to step up albania's cooperation with the european union.
the european parliament supports the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina and believes that, inter alia, the enhanced engagement of the european union should focus on socio-economic issues, the rule of law, the fight against corruption, public administration reform, the business environment or civil society, and that the conditionality of accession to the european union should not be changed.
the projects selected and financed by the eib should offer an opportunity not only to restore jobs and growth but also to tackle issues such as climate change, energy independence or rising inequalities.
i would like to take this opportunity to thank the eib representatives for the fact that, thanks to its loans to slovakia since 1992, we have been able to ensure sustainable growth and employment.
i call for investment projects to take into account the priority areas of energy, the digital single market and the focus of projects on smes.
‒ the theme of expo 2015 in milan: enjoying the planet, energy for life is important to set goals for the right to adequate, healthy, sustainable and conscious food consumption.
the european union pavilion at expo 2015 aims to raise awareness of the need to tackle problems throughout the food chain, including food waste, malnutrition, malnutrition and obesity.
only an appropriate institutional, regulatory and monitoring framework can foster an environment for the development of strong, fair and accessible agricultural market systems.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on expo 2015 in milan, as i consider it necessary to have a debate on improving food production and distribution, on combating food waste, as well as on the problem of food shortages, malnutrition and poor nutrition and on achieving a balance between supply and consumption.
from 1 may to 30 october 2015, the expo 2015 world fair in milan will be an opportunity to present the eu's positions on the serious issues of fighting food waste, from agriculture as a key sector of the eu economy to addressing food security and using agricultural production to eliminate world hunger.
the eu pavilion at expo 2015 should raise awareness of the need to address pressing issues throughout the food chain, including the sustainability of food production, distribution and consumption, in order to tackle food waste and combat malnutrition, malnutrition and obesity.
‒ the economic development of society goes hand in hand with environmental development.
it is therefore important that we not only focus on economic factors but also contribute to environmental development.
the theme of expo milano 2015 'feeding the planet, energy for life' provides impetus to the discussion on improving food production and distribution, on combating food waste, on promoting and developing already existing positive approaches to tackling food shortages, malnutrition and poor nutrition, and on achieving a balance between supply and consumption.
all of these issues concern us, and sustainable solutions must be found.
for example, it is highlighting the common agricultural policy in addressing food security, sustainability of the agricultural sector, a better environment and so on.
however, the fact that the eu's common agricultural policy is in direct contradiction to these objectives, and in particular that it is labelled as an instrument to increase the sustainability of agriculture, is absurd given its functioning.
‒ the european union and other developed countries have an undeniable moral obligation to ensure climate finance to reach the goal of jointly mobilising usd 100 billion per year by 2020. in addition, within the framework of the global partnership, there is also the need for new development goals and the related financial framework, which is aimed in particular at eradicating poverty and respecting human rights and gender equality.
these include, for example, basic education, social security networks, health care, but also water and energy supply.
i also support the resolution because it sends important messages that can help ensure inclusive growth and sustainable development in partner countries.
the sectors involved in green growth offer significant economic and ecological benefits to smes in the union, and these benefits could increase in the coming years.
this economic growth may be accompanied by environmental sustainability, which is one of the key challenges of the coming decades.
it is therefore clear from recent developments that there is room for a rather significant ecological potential, and it is very important that we are able to exploit this potential to the maximum extent possible and that it benefits smes across the european union.
to ensure their sustainable and inclusive growth, it is essential to promote, in a targeted and conscious manner, the increasing implementation of a green economy that uses resources efficiently.
it is necessary for member states, in cooperation with the european commission, to seek tools to support the business and legal environment in terms of access to project financing, public procurement and other public policy tools that enable smes to take advantage of environmental challenges for the benefit of economic growth.
i agree with the ecr's position that the green growth sector provides major economic and environmental benefits to smes in the eu and is expected to grow significantly in the coming years, based on the fact that this economic growth can be linked to environmental sustainability.
supporting smes at eu level, but also at member state level, to have easier access to finance is therefore essential for the adoption of greener technologies and for investments in sustainable business practices.
‒ to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of european economies, it is important to focus on resource efficiency and energy efficiency.
to create a sustainable environment, it is necessary to simplify access to finance for businesses, to support people in setting up businesses, to simplify the rules for entrepreneurship and to reduce the administrative burden.
the report thus points out how the redistribution of taxpayers' money will help growth or job creation, but does not show that the jobs and growth thus achieved are achieved only at the expense of potentially even more growth and employment, or at the expense of creating more sustainable growth and employment.
‒ in the single seat campaign, i would like to draw attention to the excessive waste of public funds and thus call for fewer days to be allocated to plenary sessions in strasbourg and more days to be allocated to plenary sessions in brussels.
the objective of the european system should be to establish a balanced regime that promotes sustainable development in countries of origin affected by armed conflict, without the economic effects of the application of such rules being similar to embargoes.
‒ xylella fastidiosa is a bacterium that entered europe from the united states of america during 2013. this disease has affected mainly olive trees in southern europe, in particular in the region of apulia in southern italy, and has the potential to threaten other regions and crops in the future, which could have very dramatic economic, environmental and social impacts.
in the current security environment a closer relation between turkey and the european union is to the benefit of both.
the eu and its member states should therefore take greater responsibility for their own security and defence, as the security environment in and around the eu is becoming increasingly volatile and unstable, due to a large number of long-term and emerging security challenges, such as the conflict in ukraine, syria, libya and iraq with the rise of the terrorist organisation isis.
and so i would like to call on chancellor merkel from this forum to also address the lives of women in the eu member states, and then we will all use our energy together to help women elsewhere in the world.
it is the task of the world's most developed countries, including the eu, to find solutions to development policy and environmental protection problems.
i think it is a key issue that member states should have the freedom to adapt the programme to their own agricultural and environmental characteristics and that local fruits and products should be included in the packages given to children.
i wish that in the 21st century, we don't have to deal with access to education, and we can focus our resources and energy, for example, on promoting girls' education in technical fields.
achieving gender equality is also of great importance for the economy and the economy and is important from the perspective of sustainable and inclusive growth.
we need an energy union: a joint mechanism to coordinate member states’ negotiations of bilateral energy supply contracts and, ultimately, to empower the eu to negotiate contracts on behalf of the member states.
we need to recognise that achieving gender equality is also of great importance for the economy and the economy and is important from the perspective of sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ legislation on intellectual property rights should follow digital developments, in particular the online environment and the different ways of dissemination.
i consider it very important that we continue to improve the strategy and to be uncompromising in pointing out infringements of intellectual property rights which pose certain risks to the health and safety of consumers and to the environment.
blue-card question.– what do you think about the so-called energy mix?
when we burn gas, this is co2 emission, and when we burn biomass it is again not very good for the environment.
nuclear energy is quite clean and it does not have any impact on the environment.
increasing the security of energy supply must also include stronger support for renewable energy sources.
however, the situation in slovakia is unfortunately such that the competent authorities have long prevented the development of small hydropower plants as well as the use of photovoltaic energy for business purposes.
i believe that this approach and control will actually contribute to increasing domestic energy and thus to our better energy security.
we use the most energy in europe for heating and cooling.
the best, fastest, cheapest way to energy security, but also to reduce our bills, to meet climate goals and to create hundreds of thousands of jobs is to increase energy efficiency in buildings.
investments in building efficiency are particularly difficult for low-income owners in the case of rental buildings, the owners are not very motivated in this area either, because the energy is paid for by the tenants.
i. investments in building efficiency, however, carry almost no risk to investors the commission is also proposing to set up a european energy charter to promote the use of renewable energy sources.
the smart border check-in system would facilitate the control of frequent travellers to the union, which would also result in significant time and energy savings for them and for the union bodies.
‒ the kyoto protocol to the 1997 un framework convention on climate change has set itself the goal of reducing emissions.
the eu ratified the protocol in 2002 and under the protocol its member states were responsible for reducing their collective greenhouse gas emissions by 8% from 1990 levels in the first period 2008 to 2012. subsequently, in 2012, the council agreed and proposed that the eu reduce emissions by 20% (from 1990 levels).
the doha amendment established the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, ending on 31 december 2020, where the eu and iceland committed to limit their average annual emissions by 2020 to 80% of the 1990 base year.
in writing ‒ the doha addendum commits the european union, its member states and iceland to reduce their average annual greenhouse gas emissions by 20% from the base year 1990 over the period 2013 to 2020. this commitment is based on the european legal framework for climate and energy policy until 2020. the proposal does not change the objectives or commitments of member states under the 2009 climate and energy package legislation, thus respecting the principle that individual member states' commitments to reduce their emissions in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol do not exceed their commitments contained in the eu legislation making up the package.
‒ the kyoto protocol, signed in 1997, commits the eu and its member states to reducing their collective greenhouse gas emissions by 8% compared to 1990 levels in the first period (2008 2012).
in 2012, the council introduced the second commitment period (2013 2020) of the kyoto protocol in the doha addendum, where it proposed a joint qualified commitment for the eu, the member states and iceland to reduce by 20% compared to 1990, and thus the parties committed to reduce emissions by 80% compared to 1990. the doha amendment also introduced three amendments to the text of the kyoto protocol, concerning the inclusion of a new gas (nitrous fluoride), an ambition mechanism allowing a party to adjust the commitment by increasing its ambition, and provisions preventing emissions from rising above the level of the first commitment period in the second commitment period.
‒ as we all know, the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, covering the period from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020, entered into force in 2012 as a result of the doha climate conference.
for that phase, we set a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to the reference year (which is the base year 1990 for most states that have ratified the kyoto protocol).
we need to put our economic and diplomatic efforts into action to address climate change as a truly global issue.
i think that's the only way we can achieve our goal of limiting global warming to two degrees celsius.
when voting on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol, which provides for a reduction of emissions below 20% of 1990 levels, i voted in favour of this resolution, as, on the basis of the council's position, the member states themselves adopted the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol at the doha conference in 2012.
‒ i supported the ep resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha addendum to the kyoto protocol to the un framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the commitments thereunder.
the kyoto protocol is a key contribution to addressing global climate change.
the ratification decision to conclude the doha addendum to the kyoto protocol is a good strong signal about the role of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change.
the doha amendment was adopted at the doha conference in december 2012, where the 192 parties to the kyoto protocol adopted an amendment to the protocol, and it sets out a second commitment period whereby the eu, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013 2020 to 80% of their base year 1990 emissions.
the doha amendment also introduces further changes to the text of the kyoto protocol the inclusion of a new gas, nitrous fluoride, a simplified procedure allowing for adjustments to the greenhouse gas reduction commitment and preventing emissions from rising above the average of previous years.
the ratification decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of commitments by the european union can thus contribute to addressing climate change at international level.
‒ the agreement between the eu and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, on its participation in the second period of the kyoto protocol will send a signal about the joint european efforts to address climate change at international level.
we welcome the eu's position, which has become crucial, especially in international climate change negotiations.
‒ the kyoto protocol entered into force in february 2005 and aims to commit emissions reductions in the first period (2008 2012).
the eu and its member states have ratified the convention and committed to reducing emissions by 8% compared with 1990 levels.
iceland, which is not an eu member state but has also ratified the kyoto protocol, has also committed to reducing emissions at the same level.
in 2012, the doha climate change conference adopted an addendum to the kyoto protocol extending the emissions reduction period to 2020 and agreeing to a gradual reduction of emissions to 80% of 1990 levels.
‒ although iceland is not a member state of the european union, it participates in the european union emissions trading system and has therefore decided to fulfil its commitment to the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and to participate in joint fulfilment with the european union, which is why i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing ‒ i appreciate iceland's proactive approach to environmental issues and to tackling climate change.
in writing ‒ the european union should have an interest in maintaining constructive relations over the long term, aimed at addressing common global challenges, such as the fight against terrorism and organised crime, but also those related to climate change and the development of new technologies.
in my view, russia has been, is and always will be a strategic partner for its mineral wealth, gas, for joint support in the environment, in the development of new technologies, or as it was recently, in the negotiations with iran, where russia has been very constructive.
as in the part of the resolution, i too am of the opinion that in the long term a constructive and predictable relationship between the eu and russia is possible and desirable for mutual benefit, in particular for existing relations in the fields of politics, trade, transport, energy, people-to-people contacts, cross-border cooperation, but also the northern dimension partnership, the nuclear talks with iran, or the middle east peace process.
‒ securing energy supply is one of the biggest challenges facing the eu and central and eastern europe is undoubtedly the most affected and vulnerable region today.
however, the plenary vote brought together some political groups to vote in favour of an amendment condemning the technology used in research into non-conventional energy sources and recommending that member states do not authorise activities for the exploration and exploitation of non-conventional energy sources until it is proven that they are completely safe.
‒ the importance of energy security has been underlined by the current crisis in ukraine.
energy policy has thus become one of the strategic priorities of foreign affairs.
it is therefore the eu's duty to develop an energy policy based on close coordination of views and a united approach.
in addition to pursuing the objective of energy security, the energy union should develop on the basis of a comprehensive approach and focus on achieving a fully integrated internal energy market, reducing carbon emissions in the energy mix, reducing energy demand, but also on research and innovation.
in writing ‒ the drive to increase economic growth and raise the living standards of the population increases demand for raw materials and energy and their resources.
the european union's energy security thus becomes the key to its economic growth, competitiveness and strong political and economic standing.
this requires, in particular in the context of the current geopolitical challenges, that the eu and its member states ensure a common energy policy as an integral part of both the eu's internal and external policies.
the energy security strategy emphasises the search for ways to reduce energy demand and increase the share of domestically produced energy and the development of new energy technologies, requiring a well-functioning energy market.
in writing ‒ the energy security of the european union plays a key role in affirming europe's strong political and economic position.
as the european commission already outlined the main challenges in the energy security sector in may 2014, political impetus from the european parliament is now needed to outline a framework for improved energy security.
although the situation has improved compared to the past, the eu is still forced to import 53% of its total energy consumption.
it is therefore necessary to implement a long-term strategy setting out strategic objectives with regard to europe's energy security, based on key pillars for reducing energy demand.
as energy security issues are often addressed at member state level, regardless of the interdependence between member states, i support the idea of a single european energy security for a more competitive european union and a well-functioning internal energy market.
as for the question of russia's credibility as a trading partner, it is clear that it uses energy for political purposes.
‒ central and eastern europe is the most exposed to a potential energy crisis.
low carbon nuclear energy continues to make a significant contribution to the eu's domestic energy production.
i think the choice of using nuclear energy should remain a matter for the member states.
‒ i supported the european energy security strategy because i see great potential in its implementation for eu-wide economic growth, environmental protection, but also savings for citizens through lower and more efficient consumption for households.
the eu currently imports up to 53% of its total energy consumption, and a significant proportion of this comes from geopolitically unstable regions, threatening the internal security of member states as well as the security of the eu as a whole.
one of the solutions to energy security and independence is the commission's priority to make the eu the world leader in renewable energy.
renewable energy is often produced close to the point of consumption, creating local sustainable jobs, avoiding the need for a costly distribution network, reducing emissions and being the fastest way to reduce costs for households.
as up to 40% of the eu's energy consumption is consumed by buildings for heating and air-conditioning, it is essential to increase the scale and pace of building modernisation and the use of renewable energy sources for heating and cooling.
i also think that the proposal to declare 2016 the european year of energy saving is a very good idea, which we would also use to raise awareness among european citizens about how to reduce energy consumption in households through simple and cost-effective methods.
‒ the european union should create the legislative conditions that not only reduce the energy dependence of the member states on russia in the future, but also allow for the all-round promotion of the use of renewable energy sources.
it is essential to guarantee the transparency, consistency and continuity of the regulatory frameworks for renewable energy and to avoid retroactive changes in the economic conditions governing investment.
the main objective of these actions is to strengthen investor confidence and contribute to the cost-effective development of renewable energy sources.
‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with the instruments to be used to achieve energy security.
the proposal focuses mainly on various new obligations aimed at saving energy, which limits the decision-making of consumers and businesses.
moreover, the idea that energy security should be achieved largely by mandatory energy conservation is absurd.
in writing ‒ although i found the original proposal clear and acceptable, unfortunately the text as it was finally presented, with all the amendments, focuses mainly on renewable sources and energy efficiency.
while these issues are obviously important, the new wording of the proposal over-emphasises them, which has ultimately caused the key short- and long-term objectives relating to the current energy situation to be overshadowed.
the creation of a single energy market and the need to end the european union's energy dependence on third country suppliers (the eu's dependence on oil imports is up to 90%, and on gas imports 66%) are particularly important.
it is for these reasons, and because in my view the proposal sought to impose legal obligations on energy audits and other burdensome obligations on businesses, that i voted against it.
the creation of additional bodies only contaminates the legal environment.
in writing ‒ i supported the commission's 2014 progress report on turkey, which states that turkey is a strategic partner for the eu in the field of economic and energy security.
while there have been changes in the legal and electoral landscape, and in the turkish government's efforts to achieve a comprehensive and sustainable peace process with the kurdish community, there is serious concern about the perception of corruption index and the prosecution of journalists who have reported on corruption.
but it can create an environment in which everyone is more likely to think twice about giving or taking a bribe.
the emerging energy union can also help, as the north africa and middle east region is expected to be one of the sources from which the eu will draw oil and gas in increasing numbers.
the proposed regulation on the european fund for strategic investments aims to establish a legal framework and budgetary means to support investments and subsequently to adopt measures to enhance the regulatory environment and remove obstacles that hinder investments.
investments must support the development of infrastructure, education, health, research, development, information and communication technologies and innovation, the spread of renewable energy and energy efficiency, infrastructure projects in the areas of environment, natural resources, urban development and social sphere.
it is certainly time for society to realize that we are increasingly pushing the limits of the planet and that if we continue to do so, we will not avoid negative ecological changes in the future.
because if the global economy continues at its current rate, we're going to hit a dead end by 2050. a secondary raw materials market needs to be created in europe, because valuable raw materials and materials that we obtain at high environmental and social cost end up in incinerators and landfills.
we need to set clear, clear and ambitious resource efficiency targets and create an environment of legal certainty that ensures wide opportunities for innovative business models and policies.
the autumn 2014 floods affected five regions in northern italy, where floods and landslides caused serious damage to public and private infrastructure, businesses, private property, the agricultural sector and the environment, and also claimed 11 lives.
‒ transport policy is an important part of everyday life and our task is to find answers to quality service delivery, taking into account economy, energy efficiency and environmental protection.
it is also necessary to assess thoroughly and regularly the functioning of such instruments and their contribution to job creation and the union strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i welcome the establishment of a fund for long-term investment, because while building infrastructure in transport, energy and digitalisation has a long-term return, without quality infrastructure we cannot improve the environment for job creation.
it is therefore our duty to adopt, and above all to ensure the implementation of, measures to promote a competitive and sustainable milk and milk products sector.
they are an important means of achieving economic growth, innovation, competitiveness and job creation, both within the single market and abroad, and play a strategic role in the modernisation of infrastructure, in particular energy, water, roads and digital.
they do not try to motivate employers to give work to mothers and create a suitable working environment for them.
the only way forward is through dialogue between creditors and debtors to find the balance that is necessary for sustainable development.
we are facing new challenges in our neighbourhood: the crisis in ukraine, developments in the southern and eastern neighbourhood, migration, terrorism, energy security.
this applies to health, the environment, consumer protection, but also to social standards and the protection of workers.
we must uphold the eu's high standards for the environment, health and food safety, which are now a model for the whole world, even at the cost of not accepting the agreement.
i also agree that ttip should not lead to a reduction in social, environmental and other standards.
nor will ttip jeopardise eu basic legislation in areas such as food safety or environmental protection.
‒ taking into account the draft agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the faroe islands, which associates the faroe islands with horizon 2020, and in the context of the council's request, as well as the recommendations of the committee on industry, research and energy, i agree to the conclusion of this agreement.
‒ i support the development of the european union's economic environment, in agreement with the people's party.
‒ the proposal aims to make structural changes to the emissions trading system to address the surplus of emission allowances, currently estimated at over eur 2 billion, and thereby promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in a financially and economically viable way.
- mr president first of all, i would like to say that i support reforming the emissions trading system through the introduction of a market stabilisation reserve.
i am confident that the market stabilisation reserve offers organisations a solution and a way of working together that will not encourage companies to move their production to regions outside the eu where emissions requirements are much lower, but to develop new technologies that reduce co2 emissions, positively affect the level of pollution and thus contribute to creating a better living environment for our citizens.
it is crucial to make it easier to meet our 2030 climate change goals.
‒ i did not support the proposal because i reject the commission's manipulation of the emissions trading market.
the aim of the emission allowances was to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions.
pursuant to article 153 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), it is for the european parliament and the council to adopt, by means of directives, minimum requirements aimed at improving working conditions, protecting workers at the end of their working lives, informing and consulting workers and creating a working environment which protects the health and safety of workers.
‒ i agree with the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technical cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation on the association of the swiss confederation to horizon 2020 and to the euratom research and training programme contributing to horizon 2020, governing the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities carried out by the fusion for energy joint undertaking.
investment needs to be directed towards sectors that will create sustainable jobs.
if we want to build a truly green economy, we must not forget the crucial importance of investment and appropriate incentives, together with a stable policy environment.
‒ green jobs are an important element in creating new and sustainable jobs with a positive impact on the environment and the quality of life of eu citizens.
they will contribute to reducing energy and raw material consumption, thereby minimising waste and pollution, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and contributing to the restoration of ecosystems.
this will lead to the creation of new sustainable jobs and will have a positive impact on employment and economic growth.
one of them is the creation of so-called green jobs, which correspond to the requirements of sustainable development.
the commission estimates that the renewable energy economy alone will create around 20 million new jobs in europe by 2020. the 2014 green jobs initiative put forward by the european commission therefore responds well to the new conditions in a dynamic sector that directly contributes to reducing energy and raw material consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and pollution.
we also have high hopes for the introduction of a kind of financial incentive system for environmental protection, but also for the transformation of the labour market.
i believe that these proposals could help us to build a green economy that can also contribute to our long-term climate change goals.
‒ the europe 2020 strategy defines the transition of the economy towards a green low-carbon economy, which in my view can contribute to long-term, sustainable and inclusive growth.
however, it is important that we continue this strategy and do even more to build a lasting and sustainable social dialogue that can meet the challenges posed by the transition to a competitive, low-carbon and resource-efficient economy.
‒ i support reducing dependence on fossil fuels and energy from outside the eu, while creating alternative resources within the eu and using them efficiently (to create jobs).
‒ it is certainly time for society to realise that we are increasingly pushing the limits of the planet and that if we continue to do so we will not avoid negative ecological changes in the future.
because if the global economy continues at its current rate, we're going to hit a dead end by 2050. we need to create a secondary raw materials market in europe, because valuable raw materials and materials that we obtain at high environmental and social cost end up in incinerators and landfills.
we need to set clear, clear and ambitious resource efficiency targets and create an environment of legal certainty that ensures wide opportunities for innovative business models and policies.
‒ to avoid economic and ecological disaster, it is essential to promote a more efficient use of existing resources while seeking new, environmentally friendly alternatives.
in addition, many materials end up in waste because there is no functioning market for secondary raw materials.
it is therefore necessary to gradually change the economic, social and technical conditions of production, including the adjustment of the legislative environment and economic incentives and the introduction of systemic measures, in order to increase the more efficient use of existing resources.
it is also a way of creating and maintaining new jobs with a simultaneous positive impact on the eu economy and the environment.
to ensure the long-term sustainability of our economy, we must learn to use available resources more efficiently and without unnecessary waste.
in this respect, the so-called circular economy offers a number of practical solutions and improvements, such as cascading use of resources, a waste hierarchy, but also a reassessment of producer responsibility, which will lead to the emergence of new business models, products and services.
in the context of saving, i would like to point out that buildings account for 40% of total energy consumption, which is largely wasted due to poor insulation.
in this and many other areas, i therefore encourage the search for synergies between regional and environmental policy and the use of the european funds for these purposes.
all these measures can directly contribute to gdp growth, reduced waste generation and the creation of new green jobs.
we therefore need to improve the efficiency of their use as well as that of waste material, and thus reduce the eu's overall dependence on imported raw materials.
only by using resources more efficiently can we improve the ecological and economic problems europe is currently facing.
i expect that the measures taken will lead to a significant change in the approach to waste management, which could put us back on the path of green growth.
by moving towards a more intensive circular economy, we can improve the competitiveness and living standards of europeans and contribute to economic growth, a better environment and job creation.
europe needs a successful transition to a circular economy, thereby contributing to a stronger europe and reducing pressure on the supply of raw materials and the environment.
it therefore proposed to remain within the legal basis resulting from the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community, in particular articles 31 and 32 for this area the establishment of maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination in food and feed caused by a nuclear accident or other case of radiological emergency.
the ecr group takes the view that euratom, as a separate organisation, is responsible for the functioning of the nuclear energy sector.
the digital market is undergoing major technological advances and it is therefore essential that authors and performers are granted legal protection for their creative and artistic activities, with corresponding remuneration for authors and performers in the digital environment to the same extent as in the analogue environment.
‒ seal hunting is an integral part of the culture and identity of inuit and other indigenous communities and contributes significantly to their livelihoods, providing food and income to support the life and sustainable livelihoods of the community, preserving and enabling the continuation of the traditional existence of the community and the cultural heritage of the exchange trade.
‒ in the current eurosceptic climate, it is crucial that citizens see that eu funds are being used for good and that they are being spent correctly and wisely.
taking into account the specificities of family businesses and the appropriate legal and economic environment, they may be one of the most important and stable sources of employment in the coming period.
it is important to create a positive environment for the growth of family businesses and, in particular, to improve awareness of the resulting employment opportunities for young people and women.
increasing economic growth and creating sustainable jobs in this sector requires supporting research and innovation while taking into account the protection of the environment and aquatic ecosystems.
‒ the eu is a global leader in the blue economy sector, but if we want to keep it that way, we should, in the interests of international competitiveness, look for new opportunities that will ensure sustainable growth for this sector not only at european but also at global level.
young people need to be prepared professionally and systematically to be prepared for the pitfalls of the entrepreneurial environment.
however, it is not enough to create various support mechanisms; the basis of this situation is the improvement of the business environment.
the company will best help unemployed young people and all those looking for a job by improving the overall business environment that creates new jobs.
support mechanisms such as retraining of the unemployed, school-to-work transition and stimulation of job creation are welcome but directly dependent on the quality of the business environment.
moreover, i have doubts about the wisdom of encouraging young people to start businesses with the money of the entrepreneurs themselves, which ultimately makes the business environment worse.
in addition, cultural heritage can be a significant source of employment and income, which is also an important consideration in the current economic environment.
an ideal integrated strategy for cultural heritage should take both sides into account and combine the need for immediate growth and employment with an understanding of cultural heritage as a long-term resource required by a sustainable development plan.
as the slovak republic also has gaps in the protection of cultural heritage in some cases, as confirmed by recent examples from the slovak environment, i voted in favour of the report.
the economic and ecological value of water will increase in the coming years, and it is therefore important to ensure its supply to people and to protect its resources, not only from the point of view of protecting the natural environment, but also with regard to the economic structure of the providers of this commodity.
the right of every citizen to access water must be linked to the fight against waste and degradation.
older people are active contributors to their families, peers, communities and nations and therefore deserve to be provided with an enabling environment to function to their full potential.
the document contained several contradictory proposals such as a system of preferences for the country of relocation by migrants or a lack of consideration of preferences for member states, including consideration of the cultural and social environment of the country in question, which should be considered as an essential element in the integration of displaced persons.
however, common challenges in transport infrastructure and mobility, the environment, energy efficiency, spatial planning and social policies predominate.
‒ the commission's 2011 white paper on transport states that mobility and employment must be increased at eu level, by reducing europe's dependence on oil imports and by reducing transport's carbon dioxide emissions by 60% by 2050. the parliament supports the objectives, but points out that there is a significant gap between the objectives and the means needed to achieve and finance them.
trends in the world economy require the building of a strong, competitive and safe system in all transport sectors, which takes into account the need to improve the quality of the environment and reduce the need for energy efficiency.
the commission proposal also aims to reduce europe's dependence on oil imports and to reduce carbon emissions from transport by 60% by 2050. i support the effective implementation of the white paper on transport because i believe that transport needs to become more efficient, cleaner, safer and more reliable.
in writing ‒ despite progress in cooperation with belarus in some sectoral policies such as higher education, training, digital market, energy, food security and culture, human rights violations in belarus, including intimidation of human rights defenders, police raids against human rights organisations and confiscation of their equipment, and forced evictions from belarus, persist.
in writing despite some progress in some sectoral policies, such as education, training, culture, food, energy, belarus remains among the countries where the rule of law is violated and fundamental human rights and freedoms are not respected.
the progress made in sectoral cooperation with belarus in the areas of higher education, training, digital market, energy, food security, culture and others is also positively assessed.
however, in addition to the problems of migration, the european union will also have to urgently address the problems of economic and financial sustainability, social prosperity and job creation for young people under 25 in the near future.
in writing social entrepreneurship is an important tool for maintaining economic and financial sustainability, promoting sustainable job creation and social development.
i therefore join the call to the commission and the member states to create a favourable environment for the creation of business incubators for social and solidarity-based enterprises and to create and effectively promote an online platform for the exchange of data between social investors and social entrepreneurs, the social innovation europe platform.
however, it is more important for the healthy development of the european economy to create an environment that generates new jobs on its own.
in addition, the resolution highlights the importance of public employment services, social investment and the importance of smes for job creation, and also addresses the provision of sustainable employment and quality training for disadvantaged groups of workers.
‒ i did not support the proposal because it presents a number of challenges that would damage the eu economy and jobs, or are otherwise incorrect, such as criticism of austerity measures in high-debt countries, the call for a common european asylum system, greater 'social dialogue' in refit, greater harmonisation of environmental legislation at eu level, and so on.
climate change and the environment: climate change not only negatively affects the environment, but also negatively affects development and human rights, intensifies poverty and threatens people's livelihoods.
in countries that are already vulnerable and prone to conflict, climate change is another factor that complicates existing humanitarian, development and security challenges.
the new development agenda for 2015-2030 must respect the social, economic and environmental dimension of sustainable development, emphasising poverty eradication, ensuring basic standards of decent living, democracy and the rule of law, with particular regard to the empowerment of women and gender equality.
the post-2015 programme shall include a robust framework for monitoring, accountability and evaluation of the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
the main objective of cop 21 is to adopt an international agreement on climate change that will allow global warming to be kept below 2 °c and to reach a series of major decisions on combating climate change and financing activities to combat climate change.
‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016. the resolution proposes more effective eu action in a number of areas, such as trade, the environment, agriculture and energy, to boost european jobs and growth and provide a more favourable environment for investment.
these are the proposal for a european list of safe countries (to deal more effectively with asylum applications from those who are truly in danger of losing their lives), the publication of a guide for a more effective return policy (to speed up the return of those who have been unsuccessful in their asylum application), the creation of a trust fund for africa (to support the creation of a more stable environment in african countries) and the creation of hotspots (cooperation points between the european asylum office, frontex, europol and eurojust to allow for more efficient registration of asylum seekers).
the country faces a lack of liquidity and public funds available for public investments needed to support a sustainable recovery.
the example of the court case on quotas is counterproductive for my country, slovakia, and an irresponsible waste of time in terms of resolving the refugee issue.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms.
if the european union were to adopt legislation on non-agricultural geographical indications, the positive economic effects of protecting the specific character and quality of these products could be exploited, consumer awareness could be improved, and innovation in traditional production processes and the sustainability of jobs created in underdeveloped areas could be promoted.
the country faces a lack of liquidity and public funds available for public investments needed to support a sustainable recovery.
making the eu's economy more competitive with the rest of the world requires the exact opposite reducing the tax and regulatory burden and ending harmful policies that negatively impact the eu's economy, often achieving the opposite of the intended results, such as the eu's absurdly strict climate goals.
experience has shown that centrally managed and 'bottom-up' development policies and programmes are not able to provide solutions to the problems of sustainable development and poverty reduction, and aid does not reach those for whom it is intended effectively.
i believe that if we are to successfully cope with this challenge, which can seriously threaten sustainability in developing countries, the eu and its member states will have to look for ways of working together better and more coordinatedly.
like the european funds, this aid only increases the dependence of the beneficiaries and distorts the market environment, making it more difficult for the entrepreneurs who have not received financial support to operate.
as key players, local authorities are faced with an increasing number of tasks, while also accompanying the changes in our societies, particularly in the field of sustainable development.
this report highlights the great importance of local authorities for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, job creation and sustainable economic growth.
the idea of the economic benefits for smes that could be enhanced by decentralisation, and by making a significant contribution to sustainable development as job providers, which i have long supported, also led me to vote in favour of this report.
for years, one of the most popular car brands in the world has been falsifying emissions data to protect its market leadership.
the case is exemplary and it is to be hoped that other manufacturers have not acted in a similar way to comply with strict environmental standards.
‒ air pollution is not bound by borders, which is why it is important to limit emissions consciously within eu legal frameworks.
the new proposal for a directive aims to fill a gap in eu law, as there are currently no specific provisions on emissions from medium combustion plants.
emissions from such combustion plants have significant negative effects on health and the environment, not least economically.
‒ the european commission's proposal for medium combustion plants can make a significant contribution to reducing so2, nox and dust pollution by setting limits for both existing and new plants.
small combustion plants and large combustion plants are already regulated by legislation in directives and it is therefore important to also regulate emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants, which are not yet regulated at european union level.
‒ air pollution is a cross-border problem that needs to be regulated in order to preserve health and a healthy environment.
if we don't address the problem, the costs of health care and environmental protection will rise, and they will burden the economies of all nations.
the directive provides for measures in the form of limits on emissions of pollutants into the air for medium combustion plants (with a heat input of 1 to 50 mw) for which a regulatory legal framework has not yet been established.
the aim is primarily to reduce emissions, and regulation should not represent an increase in administrative burden for eu member states and a disproportionate burden on national economies.
‒ the the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants is part of the new eu air quality action framework set out in the revised eu thematic strategy on air pollution and is consistent with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
i appreciate that the proposal is prepared to make a significant contribution to reducing nox, so2 and dust pollution by setting limits for new and existing installations as well as a simple registration system to help member states meet a significant part of their emission reduction commitments and to avoid possible trade-offs between quality and increased use of biomass, which could otherwise lead to increased air pollution.
protecting the environment is a matter of survival for future generations.
this is why we must also take a responsible approach and commit medium-sized combustion plants to reduce emissions.
‒ although emissions of air pollutants have decreased significantly in recent decades, we are still witnessing that air quality in many areas of the eu remains problematic and citizens are exposed to substances that potentially threaten their health and wellbeing.
as there are currently around 150 000 medium combustion plants in operation in the eu, which are a significant source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions, it is necessary to adopt measures to help member states reduce emissions of certain pollutants into the air.
i supported the resolution because i believe that the regulation of medium-sized combustion plants with rated thermal input between 1 and 50 mw is one of the options that can create a more coherent regulatory environment and thus close the large gap in current eu legislation.
incineration plants cause significant pollution to the environment.
the current emission limits are unnecessarily strict, as high electricity prices have led many companies to move to countries such as china or india, where environmental standards are much lower, and thus the total emissions are ultimately rising.
the report proposed emission limits for these combustion plants, which, although they will entail increased costs for the purchase of new boilers and other necessary technical equipment during the transitional period after the directive has come into force, will in turn give us a cleaner and, above all, more sustainable environment.
madam president, i would like to stress in connection with this resolution the need to get rid of the old unresolved environmental burdens that must be tackled, otherwise the time bombs will continue to fall beneath us.
i am particularly pleased that the emerging eu disaster insurance scheme will also cover situations arising from old environmental burdens which still pose a threat to society, health and public health and for which the current legal framework does not allow to establish the responsible party.
the polluter pays principle is a very important principle in preventing environmental disasters.
it is time to create a stand-alone instrument within the eu framework that also finances the disposal of old environmental burdens and can serve as a kind of immediate dipping mechanism in the prevention of ecological disasters.
i think this is particularly important because of the existing, neglected environmental time bombs in the new member countries of central and eastern europe.
the decision to build more lines of the northstream pipeline is not good news for the countries of europe, for our partners in ukraine and for the common european energy policy.
the draft project not only threatens the interests of some eu member states, such as slovakia, but also directly interferes with the area of energy security and the diversification of supplies of energy raw materials, on which our common energy policy should be based.
‒ parliament's resolution draws lessons from the red mud disaster in hungary five years ago and reiterates the need for common european solutions and cooperation in the event of environmental and industrial disasters and to prevent them.
ten people lost their lives in the accident in the colony's waste storage, many were injured, the landslide that overwhelmed the areas of the affected villages caused significant environmental damage, we are talking about the worst industrial disaster in the history of hungary.
the case of the october 2010 ecological disaster in hungary, when a dump of hazardous waste ruptured and caused damage to life, health and property, has raised more questions.
this is the need for eu compensation for damage, but also for sufficient preventive measures in the field of hazardous waste management and the associated environmental protection.
red sludge and other hazardous waste are still a risk of such environmental and industrial disasters in other eu countries.
we must therefore require the commission to report on compliance with eu environmental liability standards and, on the basis of its findings, to propose new measures to strengthen the preventive effects in this area.
‒ the collapse of a waste dam in hungary on 4 october 2010 was the last, but certainly not the only, such accident in europe in recent decades.
as a doctor, i would like to point out that the drying of the mud that has been left in the environment after nearly a million cubic meters of highly alkaline red mud has been deposited has produced fine dust that settles in the respiratory tract and travels up the circulatory system, potentially causing other health problems.
‒ the tragic events of 4 october 2010, when a waste tank with bauxite sludge from aluminium production ruptured, marked the entire surroundings of the affected area of vesprém county.
gender equality and the empowerment of women are also a prerequisite for achieving sustainable development for the period up to 2015 and constitute a separate human rights chapter.
the continuous improvement of the conditions for the employment of women, including their adequate remuneration, is one of the important factors in the often mentioned sustainable economic growth and the overall development of our society.
although action to tackle climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions is a priority for the european union, it is no longer the driving force behind climate change and global warming negotiations as it was in the past.
one reason is that the carbon footprint of the 28 eu member states is relatively small in comparison with some developing countries.
according to the latest estimates, the achievement of a limit of global warming of + 2 degrees by 2050 is not in sight and, on the current trajectory, warming of up to + 4 6 degrees could occur by the end of the century.
i therefore support the actions of the european commission in adopting the communication entitled 'paris protocol concept for tackling global climate change beyond 2020' as part of the european union's preparations for the final round of negotiations ahead of the 21st united nations climate change conference in paris.
we must not forget that combating climate change is a shared european commitment and that the poorest parts of the world, which have the least capacity to combat climate change effectively, are the ones who will pay the most for climate change.
‒ i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the eu's position in the run-up to the un climate conference in paris in december.
experts say that if we don't stop the 2 degrees celsius global temperature rise, we're facing irreversible environmental, natural changes.
the paris climate change conference in november and the agreement that was agreed there will play an even more important role.
at the 21st conference on climate change, the european union must take an ambitious stance in the negotiations, and i agree with that, as it is the only way to change the current negative processes.
in march this year, european environment ministers adopted the eu's greenhouse gas emissions reduction commitments.
attention should also be paid to the financing of projects to protect communities vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
a much more ambitious emissions reduction agreement than the previous one must be reached in paris.
the fight against climate change requires stronger collective action than ever before.
‒ climate change affects the whole planet.
if we don't do something to stop climate change, the world we live in will be irrevocably changed, and so will the way of life we take for granted.
representatives of developed countries and parts of the world, such as the european union, must do more to change this alarming situation, because climate change is caused by the way people live, especially in richer countries with developed economies.
i therefore support the actions of the european commission in adopting the communication entitled 'paris protocol concept for tackling global climate change beyond 2020' as part of the european union's preparations for the final round of negotiations ahead of the 21st united nations climate change conference in paris.
the european union must be ambitious in the paris negotiations, rejecting any compromise and reaching a consensus with its partners to adopt an agreement that will make a significant contribution to climate change.
‒ climate change due to human activities is having a negative impact on all life on our planet.
the new global climate agreement in the making, due to be adopted in paris in december, could change this.
the eu and the states acceding to the agreement must allocate funds associated with measures, projects and investments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, transition to a low-carbon economy and reduce the energy intensity of production and consumption in all sectors of the economy.
‒ i consider the fight against climate change and its potential threat to stability and security worldwide to be a key issue that needs to be addressed at international level with the participation of all stakeholders.
i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that only a comprehensive, transparent and legally binding international agreement can ensure that global warming is kept below 200c.
while the eu is well on track to meet its greenhouse gas emissions reduction and renewable energy targets, i believe it is important to intensify the dialogue between the eu and national parliaments, local authorities, civil society, the private sector and the media within and outside the eu to meet climate policy objectives.
as these actors have played, and i expect they will play, an increasingly important role in the climate debate, i think it would be a great shame not to harness this potential.
‒ i did not support the proposal because i do not agree with further tightening of the eu's climate targets.
the eu's climate targets are already too strict and are producing the exact opposite of the intended effects.
high energy prices are driving companies out of the eu to countries like china or india, where environmental standards are much lower and overall emissions are rising.
further tightening of climate targets would thus only reinforce this trend.
their abolition would help eu taxpayers as well as productive farmers who could compete in a fair market, instead of an environment covered by uneven levels of subsidies.
a significant proportion of tax evasion involves the concealment of financial assets in financial institutions located mainly in tax havens, where, along with an opaque financial environment, the anonymity of company ownership and money in accounts is guaranteed.
this undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research plan for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in different fields of application, in order to strengthen the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
such joint undertakings will help us to strengthen the union's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable us to enter new markets and create new societal applications.
the report identifies gaps and potential difficulties that may result in delays in the implementation of commitments relating to the single market and the environment.
sea-related sectors, including sustainable fisheries, recreation and research.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution calling for an investigation into fraud committed during car emissions tests.
we cannot afford to ignore the emissions cheating affecting human health or the negative events affecting the european automotive industry.
in writing, following the volkswagen emissions scandal, the european commission must investigate very closely any potential manipulation of the approval process and tests by volkswagen, as well as other car companies.
the european commission is obliged to take all necessary steps to improve and harmonise the emissions testing process to better reflect real-world conditions, which are often very different from the laboratory environment where the tests are carried out.
in writing, the emissions measurement scandals in the largest car companies in the eu have consequences not only for the economy of these companies, but also for the economy, economies and employment in all the member states concerned.
deceiving consumers, endangering life and the environment undermines citizens' trust and increases doubts about sufficiently clear, controlled and verifiable union rules.
‒ the violation of the rules on emissions from volkswagen diesel vehicles, which was revealed by the united states environmental protection agency, casts a shadow on the control mechanisms of eu countries.
‒ the emissions scandal is undermining confidence in the entire european automotive industry.
we need to get the digital market going, the energy union, reform the financial sector.
on the one hand, the european commission is fighting ammonia, methane and fine particulate matter, and on the other hand, it is supporting the agriculture that produces these emissions with 60 billion euros a year.
he wants to be a global leader in environmental goals, he wants to save all the migrants who are passing by, he's been saving greece for years, and he wants the economy to grow and the debt to fall.
yes, we protect the environment, but the european union need not be at the forefront when it has so many other problems.
this would allow taxpayers to use more money at their discretion, which would ultimately also contribute to sustainable growth and a reduction in unemployment.
‒ the european parliament and the council agreed to transpose into european union law a number of recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, which establish an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, sustainable management and best use of living marine resources in the mediterranean and black seas at levels considered sustainable and with a low risk of depletion.
it regulates the use and authorisation procedure of gmos on the markets of the member states in such a way that they do not pose a risk to human or animal health or the environment.
i agree with this position and, given the diversity of views on this watched and controversial topic and the fact that the consequences of gmos on human health and the environment are not yet sufficiently studied, member states should not be denied the possibility to decide whether or not to grow, or place or not place on the market, genetically modified food as they consider necessary or risky for their populations.
the eu's new emissions targets are a step in the right direction, and the eu is committed to achieving a high level of emissions reductions by 2020.
in writing.
more than 90% of the population living in cities in the member states of the european union are exposed to air pollution that is harmful to their health.
‒ the directive provides a framework for the adoption of measures and regulations in eu countries' regimes to achieve climate change mitigation, air quality, public health and environmental improvements, which are among the union's long-term objectives.
i therefore welcome the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants.
the aim must be to achieve air quality levels that do not have unacceptable impacts and risks to human health and the environment.
today, poor air quality contributes to premature deaths, sickness absences, high healthcare costs and lost productivity, with the total external health-related costs to companies from air pollution estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year.
moreover, according to the oecd, by 2050, urban air pollution may become the leading environmental cause of death worldwide.
however, we must strike the right balance between protecting the environment and the objective of restoring industrial production, boosting economic growth and increasing employment.
i voted in favour of the draft report in the plenary vote, as eusair provides a good opportunity for the countries of the region to promote sustainable development.
the ecosystem in this area is threatened and damaged by human intervention.
the report identifies gaps and potential difficulties that may result in delays in the implementation of commitments relating to the single market and the environment.
sea-related sectors, including sustainable fisheries, recreation and research.
it is consistent with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
all energy and capacity should be used to ensure growth, increase employment, support small and medium-sized enterprises, and protect the environment and climate.
it's also because the strategy has conflicting goals you want to reduce unemployment, while also raising climate goals and so on.
i therefore support the commission's proposal to draw up recommendations for the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market and to promote the creation of sustainable and quality jobs, while ensuring continuous monitoring of the implementation of these recommendations.
the report aims to identify areas where more attention should be paid and outlines how to contribute to maintaining competitiveness, preserving jobs and promoting europe's favourite places, to help jointly market european tourist destinations and to promote responsible and sustainable tourism.
this cannot be considered good news, especially as tourism is of irreplaceable importance in terms of promoting sustainable economic growth and increasing employment.
as a sector with a promising future for europe, tourism must be supported and continue to develop in a qualitative way (taking into account sustainable and responsible aspects), thanks in particular to the new technologies that are taking an increasingly large share in the sector.
‒ interoperability progressively improves the potential quality of public services and creates an environment that allows for greater competitiveness of businesses and greater satisfaction of citizens.
good and close cooperation is the basis for our competitiveness and sustainability.
we need a comprehensive document that provides a long-term strategy for the sustainable development of the european aviation industry and ensures its advancement in the global market.
increasing traffic also has increasing environmental impacts, so it is vital that we develop a strategy for the future with a sense of responsibility for our environment.
the eu's air transport needs a strong stimulus to create the conditions for a sustainable and competitive environment for airlines and airports.
‒ i did not support the proposal as it increases the regulatory burden and thus damages the business environment.
while the increased regulatory burden is intended to protect the customer, the deterioration of the business environment in the insurance intermediation sector will inevitably come at the expense of restricting competition, which will ultimately also harm the customer itself.
‒ according to the un convention, all children should be guaranteed the right to normal living conditions, such as the rights to education, health care, rest, a balanced diet and a normal family environment.
on the contrary, member state governments must create an environment where jobs are created, which provides a solution not only in the short term but also in the long term, as children can see positive role models in their parents.
it is not helping children out of poverty to propose increasing unemployment benefits or to harmonise minimum wage values across the european union, but rather member states should seek to create an environment that is suitable for job creation, training and upskilling of parents who can then set an example for their children, while ensuring that children have a quality education, which i consider to be an effective means of lifting them out of poverty.
waste has the opposite effect, namely, to make a situation worse without any further prospects.
we seek environmental sustainability, strengthen the foundation of social cohesion and believe that humanity is bound together by common values and interests.
it is worth noting that the strong partnership between these two international organisations is built on three long-term pillars: peace and security, human rights and sustainable development.
we cannot forget that the cultural dimension is essential for successful development policies that promote the building of sustainable societies.
‒ i voted against the proposal because i do not agree with some of its challenges, such as the call to achieve ambitious climate targets, nor do i agree with the highlighting of the 'significant contribution' of the eu to development and humanitarian aid in the world.
although the steel sector has been experiencing a loss of more than 40 million tonnes of steel production capacity since 2008 and a 40 mt decrease in demand was recorded in 2014 compared to 2007, i believe that this industrial policy will create the steps that will provide the essential metals industry with the necessary tools and means to achieve a successful transition to a low carbon economy.
i expect the base metal industry to adapt strategically to the new climate, economic and social situation by setting an example in the efficient and effective use of energy and raw materials and not disappearing from the industrial world of the future.
the ep stressed the need to protect human health and the environment.
‒ dehp is a known toxic substance of very high concern due to its reproductive toxicity and endocrine disruption in the environment.
since the substance is not chemically bound to the plastic, it easily leaks into the environment, which i find alarming.
this substance is chemically bound to plastics, and therefore easily leaks into the environment.
the commission is also responsible for protecting citizens and the environment from dangerous chemicals.
‒ i did not support the proposal, as it is in direct contradiction with scientific knowledge and may ultimately do more harm than good to the environment.
if the objective of a safe and healthy working environment for all european workers is to be achieved, additional concrete measures should be included in the framework.
for instance, we should move forward on energy market integration with georgia through the energy community.
i therefore welcome the progress made so far on multilateral initiatives such as the environmental goods agreement and the information technology agreement, and on initiatives such as the trade in services agreement.
‒ the doha round aims to strengthen multilateral trade rules and thereby create a favourable environment for new trade opportunities for developed, but also developing and least developed countries, which have long been marginalised in the world trading system.
the resolution points to liberalisation as an important tool for ensuring sustainable economic growth and development, although it needs to be complemented by appropriate accompanying policies involving macro- and micro-economic measures, including transparent budgeting, fiscal policies, tax equality, institutional reforms and social policies, in order to maximise and better distribute the benefits of trade reforms and more effectively counterbalance the negative impacts.
‒ the european parliament should be informed about the implementation of action plans by governments and accompanying measures adopted by the european commission through cooperation programmes, in particular in relation to education, training, regulatory cooperation and the creation of socioeconomic opportunities for the most disadvantaged sections of society and the promotion of progress in democracy, respect for human and workers' rights and environmental protection.
it is important that ecuador adopt similar measures to those of colombia and peru in the field of labour rights and the environment.
however, the adoption of these reforms must not lose sight of the protection and preservation of indigenous and local communities, which embody traditional ways of life, and their importance for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity.
as regards environmental issues, it should be noted that despite the country's efforts, ecuador and neighboring countries face intensive deforestation, significant loss of biodiversity, water pollution, and soil erosion.
ecuador and the eu should therefore also conclude an agreement on cooperation in the field of environment and support for anti-deforestation programmes.
a high standard of animal welfare is important for ensuring sustainability, although it is associated with investments and additional operating costs.
‒ cohesion policy is one of the eu's most effective and powerful tools for ensuring economic growth, sustainable development and job creation.
the accumulation of unprocessed waste places a huge burden on the environment, endangers the health of people living near landfills and also entails large expenditure on safety measures and future remediation of such sites.
advanced economies such as the member states of the european union and the united states have done much to combat climate change in the past, even at the cost of reducing their industrial production.
now it's up to countries like russia, china and india to follow us in our quest for a better environment for the entire planet.
to ensure sustainable urban mobility, both goods and passenger traffic should be taken into account.
as public transport and freight transport are still very low-efficiency in many member states, quality investment in this sector is essential to achieve sustainable mobility.
but while improving infrastructure, we must not forget for a moment the issue of emissions.
as is well known, greenhouse gas emissions in industry and agriculture have been significantly reduced compared with 1990, while in the transport sector they have increased by 30% over the last 25 years.
urban transport accounts for a quarter of total emissions, most of which come from road transport.
to achieve these objectives, it is essential to further develop urban fixed-route transport and to promote the widest possible use of electric and other non-greenhouse gas emission propulsion systems in urban road transport.
sustainable urban mobility must focus on the quality of human life, with a direct link to the emphasis on relieving cities of congestion or planning parking lots to allow pedestrian freedom and attractiveness of city centres.
we must also not forget that cycling plays an important role in modern planning for sustainable urban mobility and is part of the solution to preventing traffic congestion, with separate routes for cyclists and pedestrians being taken for granted in road construction and renovation.
the deteriorating environment and the inherent need for safety require a focus on promoting green public transport, with an emphasis on electric mobility.
the report aims to find new ways of simplifying and accelerating urban mobility and moving towards less polluting and more sustainable modes of transport, in particular to protect human health, the environment and the climate, while seeking a rational balance between social, environmental and economic aspects.
i believe it is in our interest and in the interest of our children's future to set ambitious targets and to allocate adequate resources from european funds to sustainable urban mobility projects.
greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector have increased by 30% over the last 25 years, and this is a growing trend that we need to address at eu level.
these environmentally friendly solutions, in addition to their positive environmental impacts, can make a significant contribution to reducing the eu's external energy dependence in the long term.
in writing ‒ in the case of the legislative resolution on sustainable urban mobility, i voted against the proposal submitted.
unfortunately, individual car transport continues to dominate at the expense of sustainable modes of transport not only in most slovak cities but also in many european cities.
i supported the resolution because i believe that it is essential to reorient urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport, and the report presented offers possible solutions.
i also think that sustainable urban mobility will require much more quality investment in the public interest.
while there are many different approaches to urban mobility planning in europe, i expect the union, in cooperation with member states and regional and local authorities, to be able to create a new model of sustainable urban mobility.
efficient spatial planning, but also raising awareness of alternative modes of transport among our citizens are steps towards sustainable mobility.
in writing ‒ i abstained on the report on sustainable urban mobility.
in most cases, the report managed to strike a balance between the principle of subsidiarity and supporting member states in their plans and initiatives for sustainable urban mobility, and it also rightly noted that positive change should come mainly from the bottom up, i.e.
on international issues, political dialogue with samoa focuses on environmental issues and climate change, as samoa is threatened by rising ocean levels as an island state.
although saint lucia's economy is small compared to other caribbean countries, is based on agriculture and is exposed to external shocks, it strives to create an environment that is conducive to investment and private sector development.
‒ saint lucia is a small and young, democratic and stable country, focused on agriculture but with ambitions to transform the economy through a conducive environment for business, investment and private sector development.
the country is successfully achieving and even exceeding some of the sustainable development goals, developing trade and tourism.
although the island's economy is small and largely based on agriculture, saint lucia is striving to create an environment conducive to investment and private sector development.
the conclusion of the agreement will provide an opportunity for cooperation on human rights, the achievement of the sustainable development goals and the strengthening of relations.
it can also contribute to strengthening relations in the fight against terrorism, trafficking in human beings and climate change.
the main change in this regulation is also a measure to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources, which will ensure sustainable development in the industry from an environmental and social point of view.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the control and enforcement system applicable to fisheries in the north-east atlantic, as the eu, as a contracting party, aims to ensure the long-term protection and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic, as well as sustainable, environmental and social benefits.
‒ the parliament's report was produced for the european commission's document 'towards a european energy union'.
the parliament's report focuses on energy security, including the diversification of energy sources and energy supply routes.
an important aspect of the progress towards the energy union is the alignment of the process with forward-looking climate policy, which has been the subject of an opinion by the committee on the environment, in its capacity as an associated committee.
i agree with the way parliament has put it that the main pillars of the energy union are energy efficiency, renewable energy, the most efficient use of european energy resources and smart infrastructure.
‒ the energy security of the european union and its member states is a strategic policy.
however, energy security goes hand in hand with reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the energy union framework strategy on climate change reflects the 5 pillars of the energy union and policies implemented under these pillars must contribute to ensuring security of energy supply, decarbonisation, long-term sustainability of the economy and affordable and competitive energy prices.
it must also take a hardline approach in areas such as achieving a fully integrated internal energy market and further the best possible use of energy resources, followed by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, mitigating energy demand, and expanding renewable energy sources.
in this area, it is also essential to promote research and innovation with a view to achieving leadership in energy technologies.
‒ as the energy union can bring real and tangible benefits to all member states, i welcome the report entitled 'towards a european energy union' and consider it significant that the energy union framework strategy has created a new impetus for the transition to a low-carbon, secure and competitive economy.
given that the european union spends some eur 400 billion on energy imports each year, i believe it is essential to reduce this dependence by diversifying the sources, suppliers and transport routes of both electricity and nuclear fuel, but above all natural gas.
with geopolitical events, with the ongoing tensions between russia and ukraine, and with the persistently low oil prices that are affecting energy markets around the world, energy security is still literally the talk of the day.
‒ the in february 2015, the european commission proposed the creation of a european energy union, which should primarily address energy security, the removal of technical and administrative barriers, and respect for climate objectives.
i voted in favour of the resolution because i support the idea of a single european energy union based on solid cross-cutting legislative foundations and strong objectives.
i also support the vision and the new strategy presented because there is currently no single energy market in europe and the resulting fragmentation of eu energy markets is very damaging to europe's competitiveness and energy security.
as a member of the european parliament representing the slovak republic and living in eastern slovakia, i am very sensitive to the annual problems with energy supply during the winter months, which have been and are linked to the crisis situation in ukraine.
i expect the european energy union to have well-integrated and competitive regional electricity and gas markets, ensuring the adequacy and flexibility of an energy system covering all parts of the union.
‒ the european union must cooperate on a common energy policy.
this is the way to increase energy security and the efficient use of renewable energy sources.
the nordstream2 project is contrary to the principles of the energy union and therefore needs to be rejected.
i agree with some parts of the energy union, particularly the removal of regulatory barriers.
however, the european parliament's proposal calls for an increase in the regulatory burden in many places, with calls for stricter climate targets in particular being pointless and ultimately counterproductive.
‒ connecting electricity networks is one of the fundamental prerequisites for achieving the european union's integrated internal market for electricity, which will help achieve the european union's climate objectives, including the goal of becoming a leader in renewable energy, and will improve the european union's geopolitical position, including through increased energy security and independence.
‒ as the ageing of europe's energy infrastructure, poorly integrated energy markets particularly cross-border ones and uncoordinated national energy policies often mean that consumers and businesses cannot benefit from a wider choice or lower energy prices, i welcome the report on the achievement of a 10% electricity interconnection rate, i.e.
the preparation of european electricity networks for 2020. with wholesale electricity prices in the eu now 30% higher than in the us and gas prices even higher than 100%, improving energy connections between member states and modernising infrastructure can improve energy affordability and price competitiveness.
i appreciate that europe (also thanks to the reliability of our networks) already has a traditionally high level of energy security compared to other regions of the world, but the recent crisis in ukraine and all the risks to energy security that it entails have shown us what the eu can gain from well-integrated and interconnected energy markets in the event of crises.
the preparation of european electricity networks is a step in the european energy union.
‒ improving the interconnection of electricity networks is an important condition for maintaining the stability of electricity supply in the context of increasing the share of renewable energy sources.
the european union should also increase its energy self-sufficiency in this way, which will be very important in times of unforeseeable supply crises.
at the same time, such interconnection will contribute to improving the internal market, the free movement of energy and, ultimately, hopefully, not only a greater sense of security for consumers but also lower electricity prices.
‒ the in the context of the report on the new common fisheries policy and the structure of the technical measures and multiannual plans, i consider it necessary to ensure that the primary objective of maximum sustainable yield using the ecosystem approach is respected.
however, i would point out that simplifying them should not be done at the expense of environmental protection.
on the contrary, union decisions can have a significant impact on the recovery of fish stocks, the protection of ecosystems and the sustainable management of common fish stocks.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the new common fisheries policy (cfp), the structure of technical measures and the multiannual plan, as it must aim at achieving maximum sustainable yield using an ecosystem approach.
this concerns plant and mammal species that were not originally present in europe and that now pose a risk due to their adverse impact on biodiversity, ecosystem services, but also on human health and the economy.
according to the information available, many of the most problematic invasive alien species are not included in the list, and instead species that have no demonstrable negative impact on biodiversity or human health are included.
‒ this report concerns the general relations between the european union and china and deals in detail with political, economic, environmental, social and, not least, human rights aspects.
it is necessary to develop mutually beneficial trade relations, to promote investment and tourism development, to address environmental improvement, cyber and computer security, as well as global and regional security issues, through economic and political dialogue and in compliance with applicable regulations and international agreements.
of course, the problems of intellectual property infringement and the issue of climate change also need to be discussed in further negotiations.
i appreciate that, in addition to the parts that addressed the challenge to maintain and strengthen cooperation, the report also deals with a realistic assessment of the current situation in china, in particular in relation to the problems of respect for human rights, the issue of the death penalty, of which china is the world's largest perpetrator, but also environmental problems.
i hope that the challenges to parliament, as formulated, will also help ensure that the great growth of the chinese economy is equally accompanied by positive changes in the areas of human rights and the environment.
it worries me that all events, such as natural disasters, the effects of climate change, military conflicts, epidemics, and population migration, most often affect the poor and marginalized, not excluding children.
‒ growing challenges such as climate change and related natural disasters, urbanisation and demographic change require adequate responses.
‒ steel and aluminium are therefore two major examples of the difficulties faced by those working in these sectors, who must continue to modernise energy and the environment, which requires an investment policy that few of them have the means to finance today.
this industrial policy must provide the necessary tools and means to achieve a successful transition to a low-carbon economy, which cannot be achieved without strategic management of the base metals sector and without providing the necessary tools and means to cope with rising carbon prices.
while it is absolutely essential for european economies to reuse base metals and develop a circular economy, recycling alone will not be able to meet the future needs of the european continent involved in the transition to other energy sources.
as regards new measures introduced or being prepared in the field of climate change and environmental protection and in connection with the transition to low-carbon technologies, the modernisation of the sector needs to proceed smoothly, taking into account the specificities of the sector but also of the regions closely linked to steel production, which is often a significant source of employment.
in addition to low demand, the eu steel industry is struggling with overcapacity and low prices in china and, on the domestic market, with high energy prices and labour costs.
the eu's efforts to reduce co2 emissions are also at a disadvantage to its industry compared with countries that do not push for technology upgrades.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, as this is an important sector for economic growth and employment across the eu.
as energy prices in europe are higher than in many other economies, mainly due to the lack of energy market integration, increasing tariffs, fees and network costs severely limit the competitiveness of the european base metal industry on the world market.
therefore, the development of a sustainable european base metal industry is driven by the urgent need to combat climate change and high energy prices.
the commission must change the allocation system to be based on the amount of metals produced rather than on the greenhouse gases produced within the installation.
i consider very important the issues of contracts and energy supply, which vary considerably within the eu member states.
‒ in developing a sustainable european base metal industry, it is necessary to establish functioning measures to guarantee growth and competitiveness.
the current eu climate policy is counterproductive and technical changes alone, without less stringent overall climate targets, will not solve the problems of eu industry.
when member states and their representatives establish trade relations, for example in the field of energy, but especially in the field of security, they do not take into account the approach to the protection of human rights of their trading partners in third countries.
more than half the world lives under undemocratic, authoritarian and repressive regimes, so human rights protection must be integrated into all eu policies - development, economy, environmental protection - it must be cross-cutting, inseparable and do-it-yourself.
it is important that we properly investigate the co2 emissions scandal and, above all, that measures are taken in the future to prevent car companies from cheating.
just a few days ago, the very difficult climate change negotiations in paris ended, and a climate agreement was born that still needs to be ratified by individual states.
the europe 2020 strategy also sets the objective of reducing co2 emissions, and i therefore welcomed the european parliament's interest in ensuring that large companies in the automotive industry comply with declared emission values, that consumers are not misled when buying a car and, ultimately, that we protect the environment.
‒ i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, which will in future bring it closer and closer to the european union and help it on the path of reforms towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as in the fight against corruption, and will steer the country towards economic, social and environmental progress, taking into account the principle of sustainable development.
‒ the vietnamese economy showed several positive signs of improving performance in 2014. in the world bank's doing business 2014 ranking, vietnam ranked 78th out of 189 economies in the world in terms of the business environment, which i think is a very good result for a developing country.
i expect vietnam to continue to successfully pursue the stabilisation of the macroeconomic situation, accelerate the process of restructuring state-owned enterprises through privatisation, improve the country's business environment, increase the efficiency and modernisation of the agricultural sector, improve the development of science, fight corruption and complete administrative and judicial reform.
‒ the i welcome broader and deeper cooperation with vietnam, which will in future bring it closer and closer to the european union and help it on the path of reforms towards good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the fight against corruption, and steer the country towards economic, social and environmental progress, taking into account the principles of sustainable development.
when member states and their representatives establish trade relations, for example in the field of energy, but especially in the field of security, they do not take into account the approach to the protection of human rights of their trading partners in third countries.
‒ the virunga national park, located in the democratic republic of congo, is africa's oldest national park, a unesco world heritage site, and a region known worldwide for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity, making it the most biologically diverse park in africa.