i support the agreement reached today and i was happy to support it because it corrects the wrong regulation of 2001. in 2012, as minister for agriculture, i was involved in the council and i know how tough the negotiations were and how reluctant some countries were to reach such a compromise, so i would like to extend my sincere congratulations to parliament, the coordinators and also to all those who participated in this compromise, including the chair of the environment committee.
i see a clear need for such a concept to be developed in the trio of energy, agriculture and environment.
the motion for a resolution, inter alia, highlights the commission's intention to withdraw its proposal to amend six pieces of waste legislation (the 'circular economy') and encourages it to promote an increase in ambition as part of the ongoing legislative process and to complement this process with additional initiatives where necessary.
waste is a major problem throughout the eu.
during the previous mandate, considerable efforts were made to regulate this area, which would help to reduce landfill waste, focus on recycling, incineration and reuse and thus reduce the risks of harmful impacts of waste on people and the environment.
i believe that the proposal to amend the six pieces of waste legislation should be maintained, and i therefore supported the motion for a resolution tabled by the green/european free alliance group.
as early as 2010, the european commission announced the removal of tax barriers for european union citizens in a cross-border environment.
the transition of the member states of the european union to a circular economy is very important in achieving greater resource and raw material efficiency and if we want to achieve greater independence of the european union in the field of raw materials, it is necessary to promote a circular economy based on reuse and high-quality recycling of waste, rather than withdrawing this circular economy programme from the programme for the next period, as this commission has done.
and it would be unacceptable to withdraw the programme for a europe without waste from the commission's programme, because waste is becoming more and more of a problem because of its disposal, rather than becoming a resource and also a means of recycling and renewable resources.
but in the long run, the only way to solve this problem is to modernize the education system and create a healthy economic environment.
at the same time, it is also one of the ways or instruments of ensuring the sustainable development of an undertaking.
so, because the process is very slow, i support these questions to the commission and i hope that we will not waste any more time and that we will introduce this form of financial participation in all countries as soon as possible.
local food, short food chains are the right direction for european agricultural policy, which must also be supported from an environmental point of view.
the european union is a global energy community, which is facing threats from the ukraine crisis and terrorism in eastern europe, but in the long term energy security is the most important issue and it is vital that europe finally establishes an energy union.
i therefore support all those colleagues who have just stressed this safety aspect in ensuring energy independence.
the european union therefore faces a major challenge: the internal and external diversification of energy sources.
finally, the establishment of the energy union is also a good opportunity to establish a low-carbon society.
energy security is one of the key security issues, which is why this energy union package is very important.
the energy union will certainly require us to be very active in the efficient use of energy, while at the same time identifying the challenging issues of how much renewable energy should be included in the energy mix, so that these renewable sources do not have too much of an impact on the deterioration of european competitiveness.
one of the major problems facing europe, both the population and industry, is the high cost of energy.
it will therefore be very necessary, commissioner, in your difficult task, that you really have the political wisdom, but also the influence, to answer the key questions, including the question of the future of nuclear energy, what will happen to the facilities when they are out of action, out of operation.
member states should address the causes of financial fragmentation, such as the different risk structures that make lending more expensive in some countries, and implement appropriate structural reforms to restore a favourable business environment.
the juncker investment fund in the making, the more proactive monetary policy of the european central bank, the energy union package presented today are solutions that are tangible, concrete and give hope that a stronger investment cycle will finally happen in europe.
competition policy this policy will best protect our consumers and thereby also provide a fair environment for all small businesses, which are, as we always say, the engine of the european economy.
this is the result of major structural changes in global trade flows, including reduced demand for steel in the automotive and construction sectors due to the economic crisis and due to the relative increase in production costs (prices of materials, energy, environmental constraints, etc.).
although far from ideal, this agreement represents a good improvement on the original proposal, especially when environmental and safety aspects are taken into account.
with 70% of the european union's transport being carried by road, it is all the more important to ensure that greenhouse gas emissions, in particular carbon dioxide (co2) emissions, are reduced, road safety is improved, the relevant legislation is adapted to technological developments and changing market needs, and intermodal transport is made possible, while ensuring undistorted competition and the protection of road infrastructure.
this will mean being able to offer a stable flow of investment capital for long—term growth projects, helping to achieve sustainable growth prospects for the eu.
i also agree that secure, efficient, competitive and innovative electronic payments are key to allowing consumers, traders and businesses to take full advantage of the internal market, which is increasingly important in an environment that is increasingly geared towards e-commerce.
moreover, it is based on a level playing field in all sectors, and at the same time it is the foundation of the european social market economy and an essential tool for ensuring the proper functioning of a dynamic, efficient, sustainable and innovative eu internal market.
in ensuring a level playing field for businesses in the internal market, it is also necessary to combat social dumping and to implement european social and environmental legislation.
and one of those chapters is also which is not explicitly written, but it's obvious is the relationship to the environment.
and that is the attitude towards the environment, towards renewable energy sources, and i think that's going to be one of the key things for the future of montenegro, especially because we know that the economic situation is not bright at the moment and that there is a lot of unemployment, especially among young people.
and i think that this very attitude towards the environment and of course the protection of those pearls that montenegro has, can guarantee it in the long run also greater employment and reduction of the economic crisis.
i come from slovenia, which was the first former yugoslav state to join the european union, and i know very well the efforts that the serbian government must now make to improve the area of regional cooperation, to tackle the most decisive reforms, which were "taboo" in serbia until a few years ago, to improve the business environment, and to also take up the very challenging area of the rule of law: the fight against corruption, the prosecution of crime.
when we talk about the european union today, we are talking about the capital markets union, the banking union, the digital union, the energy union, not to mention the european semester, which allows control over the budgets of the member states.
it plays a key role in reducing disparities between european regions and increasing social cohesion and developing businesses and entrepreneurship for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth across the eu.
montenegro needs to strengthen transparency and improve the business environment.
the country's polarized political climate is also a cause for concern.
labour costs should remain in line with productivity and wages should contribute to sustainable social protection systems.
structural reforms must bring sustainable growth, higher employment and prosperity for all.
the golden fiscal rule for sustainable public finances is crucial here.
‒ i supported the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2015. europe must commit itself to a social market economy model that ensures sustainable growth in order to provide jobs for future generations, not debts.
‒ completion of the single market is the urgent priority for achieving enhanced, sustainable growth.
however, care must be taken to maintain a balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions.
it is good to include the unification and deepening of the single market in the european semester, with a particular focus on the single energy market and the digital single market.
the creation of a single energy market would bring the eu greater security of energy supply and greater independence from russia.
‒ i voted in favour of a european parliament resolution calling for a stronger fight against the sexual abuse of children on the internet, as children are particularly vulnerable to such crimes and as one of the most important tasks of the eu and the member states is to protect children and provide a safe environment for their development.
and of course, we can't afford such ecological disasters.
the country, which has one of the highest rates of violence in the world, is no longer able to maintain public order and peace, and although it has the largest energy reserves in latin america, its people suffer from severe shortages of basic goods.
some equate public procurement with corruption, but i think that everything else is important in public procurement, not just the lowest price, because how can the right to healthy food and a healthy environment compete with the lowest price?
i voted in favour of the report because it stresses that only active labour market measures leading to permanent and long-term employment can be co-financed by the egf, while recalling that the training of workers must also be adapted to the real business environment.
on the basis of the above, and as a balanced and growth-oriented tax system is essential to generate sustainable growth, i supported the annual report on taxation.
‒ i voted for the annual tax report report because it advocates a tax policy that promotes transparency, fairness and good governance, reduces the administrative burden on smes and micro-enterprises, removes tax obstacles to cross-border activities and is an effective instrument for promoting sustainable growth and social justice.
it is important that the implementation of the measure takes into account expected future developments on the labour market and the current trend towards a sustainable economy with efficient use of resources.
the parliamentary committee recommended that the four main objectives set by the commission as part of the overall modernisation of social protection systems should be to ensure high quality and sustainable healthcare for all.
these objectives also relate to sustainable pension systems, fair pay for work and the promotion of social inclusion, and their achievement requires ensuring better coordination of member states' employment, social and socio-economic policies.
each member state and the european commission are to appoint two members of the committee for a period of two years, renewable once.
it is necessary to be aware of our mistakes or those of our ancestors and to draw from them the energy to cooperate, not to divide.
this is in clear contradiction with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which promotes smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i think it can be a good example of how to ensure sustainable fishing, how to protect the environment and how to prevent overfishing.
and i think that's what needs to be added: it's not just overfishing that's threatening fish, of course, it's pollution that's threatening fish.
pollution caused by humans.
these are regulations whose objective is primarily economic, environmental and social, but which in fact are not as clearly defined in this particular case as the commission claims.
however, there is also a need to talk to fishermen, to carry out analyses, to collect information, to plan in a way that also allows sustainable fishing, and therefore i need to reconsider the content of these regulations.
it is also right that in adopting the energy concept, or energy union, we really emphasise the objective we have set ourselves, namely that energy saving is the first source of energy.
because i'm convinced that if we make great progress there, we'll be able to make that energy savings by using less fossil fuels and using more electricity in transportation.
if 90 percent of the bags are used only once, that means that the waste is just accumulating and we are actually digging into the plastic.
and each country can do the most by raising awareness, by convincing people of the environmental harm of plastic.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising member states to become, in the interest of the european union, parties to the international maritime organisation's (imo) convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for personnel on fishing vessels (stcw-f), which aims to ensure that personnel on fishing vessels are qualified and able to work, thereby minimising the potential risk to life at sea and to the marine environment during activities on board fishing vessels.
it is also right that in adopting the eu's energy concept, or energy union, we really emphasise the objective we have set ourselves: energy saving is the most important source of energy.
in addition, transport is the sector where we have the greatest difficulty in meeting our environmental objectives.
if more concrete steps are taken in this area, this will have a decisive impact on the dependence of transport on fossil fuels, enormous energy savings and a cleaner environment.
‒ i supported the recommendation on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources.
the proposal proposes to limit the production of biofuels from crops that are otherwise intended for food and to accelerate the transition to alternative sources such as waste and seaweed.
i support the directive because it wants to start a new policy on biofuels, it wants to turn the page in the fight against co2 emissions.
we also need to develop renewable energy sources in the transport sector.
i supported this draft directive since it will accelerate the necessary transition from conventional biofuels to ʽsecond generationʼ biofuels: this will entail a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
parliament should also make sure that in the near future ʽadvancedʼ biofuels are produced on a larger scale in the eu, in order to achieve further decreases in co2 emissions.
i don't deny that this is an extremely beneficial environmental goal.
if 90 percent of the bags are actually used only once, that means that the waste is just accumulating and we're actually digging into the plastic.
each country can do the most to raise awareness and persuade people about the harmful effects of plastic on the environment.
the new rules will drastically reduce the use of plastic bags, as they aim to reduce consumption to 40 bags per capita by 2025, and represent a historic breakthrough in tackling the problem of plastic waste in our environment and reducing waste in general, which is why i supported the proposal for a directive.
of that, 8 billion are left in nature or in waste.
plastic bags are the source of many environmental problems.
i also support the directive because it aims to give member states the tools to reduce the amount of such waste.
respecting the environment by introducing such measures is urgent if we want to ensure that future generations of europeans will enjoy a life without dramatic climatological phenomena taking place.
‒ i supported the recommendation on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport.
more than 80% of goods are transported by ship, and this is also an energy-efficient transport, as we can transport goods with less co2 emissions compared to air and road transport.
‒ maritime transport is currently the only transport mode that is excluded from the eu’s commitments to cut down greenhouse gas emissions.
the ships covered by the regulation are those above the threshold of 5 000 tons, which are responsible for 98% of emissions.
i would like to focus on sustainable fishing.
only in this way can an environmentally friendly and sustainable fishing be ensured.
i would also like to mention the importance of ecologically sustainable fisheries management.
the latter is very important in order to reduce the impact of fishing on the marine environment, taking into account that a certain level of impact of fishing within reasonable limits is unavoidable.
it is important to recognise that pollution, overfishing and unsustainable fishing practices have a major negative impact on fisheries.
pollution has been shown to cause significant damage at different stages of the marine food chain, with serious consequences also for commercial species which therefore need to be protected.
i therefore advocate fishing methods that respect the environment, while minimising the potential for overfishing by law, and also measures to be taken in the event that a fish species becomes endangered as a result of overfishing.
‒ i voted in favour of this regulation concerning the management of fish stocks in the baltic sea because guaranteeing sustainable fish stocks is essential, since fishing activities offer massive benefits to the eu, not only financial ones but also in terms of job creation.
this regulation can also ensure the prosperity of local fishing companies, local economies and employment, as well as guaranteeing the ecological balance of the baltic seabed.
forestry and wood are also one of the key renewable resources and contribute to the sustainable development of the republic... of all europe.
it is also important that the strategy, in addition to forestry, also highlights the environmental note and also the importance of wood as a building material, namely wood as a material used in construction, industry and creates a whole range of new jobs.
wood is a renewable energy source which is unfortunately not sufficiently exploited in europe.
it is necessary to ensure the wise and sustainable use of wood.
i also welcome the report on the new eu forestry strategy, as it stresses that the strategy should take into account that in some member states, including slovenia, forests cover more than half of the territory and that forests managed sustainably are of great importance for local and regional added value and are an important source of rural jobs, while also making a significant contribution to environmental protection.
although forests cover more than half the territory in some countries, urbanisation has left eu citizens with little awareness of forestry and its impact on health, climate, the environment and jobs.
sustainably managed forests are of major importance at local, regional, european and international level and for rural employment, while also providing benefits for human health, and making a significant contribution to environmental and climate protection and biodiversity.
wood is a renewable resource and its sustainable use can also be ensured through the exchange of expertise.
that the member states, and of course slovenia, must also fight against various forms of exploitation and the provision of sustainable work, that is, work that will provide some quality employment.
the second working document i produced relates to the european court of auditors' report entitled 'how the eu institutions and bodies calculate, reduce and offset their greenhouse gas emissions'.
the objective of all eu institutions and bodies should be to have a common approach to their own greenhouse gas emissions and to reduce them where possible.
to achieve this, they should calculate their greenhouse gas emissions comprehensively and publish the results.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the final accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2013 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the authority's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions relating thereto.
the financial statements of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators show that the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2013 was eur 11 930 220, which is an increase of 64,74% compared to 2012, which can be explained by the fact that the agency was recently established and that the remit regulation was implemented.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in different fields of application, in order to improve european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the creation of new markets and societal applications.
and i would also like to point out something that is extremely important for albania's progress and its development, and that is of course the areas of the environment, the protection of nature, because albania has wonderful natural resources and it would be bad if, of course, capital destroyed all that is the prospect for green jobs and green energy.
the situation in a country can change, we can help it with financial incentives, but of course we need to know where to direct these incentives, and one of these is of course the environment.
i therefore say from this place that bosnia must refrain from industries and interventions which seriously damage the environment.
i think that the european union should make its own contribution to environmental protection, because it is also bound by international environmental commitments and these border problems linked to the environment can also be discussed in the european parliament.
in addition, workers must be provided with working conditions in a safe and appropriate environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the second anniversary of the rana plaza building collapse and progress on the bangladesh sustainable development pact, as the collapse of this building in the suburb of dhaka, which housed several garment factories, represents one of the deadliest industrial accidents in modern history.
the economic situation of bosnia and herzegovina is unenviable, which makes the readiness for economic cooperation and the creation of an attractive business environment all the more important.
sustainable reforms in the priority areas of public administration, reinforcement of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime have been adopted and are being implemented effectively.
at the same time, the problem of food waste needs to be tackled seriously.
without them, there is no sustainable agriculture.
illicit tobacco products can be far more harmful than legal ones, as they are manufactured in unverified facilities and imported into the eu, and the ingredients can contain more nicotine, tar and carbon monoxide, and in some cases even particles of packaging and plastic.
it is clear that the member states also have to do the majority of the work, but at least if we look at the area of recycling and waste and the circular economy, which is not currently a priority for the commission, it should be said that currently 60% of all waste in the eu is not recycled, composted or reused, which is a great opportunity for smes.
‒ the year 2015 is crucial for global development, with the adoption of the sustainable development goals and the global climate action agreement.
the united nations conference on trade and development estimates that developing countries' financing needs for the sustainable development goals are approximately usd 3,9 billion per year, and they are currently underfunded by usd 2,5 billion per year.
the cost of inaction will be significantly higher than the cost of decisive action for sustainable development.
the potential of developing countries to mobilise domestic resources is considerable, as it is more predictable and sustainable than foreign aid, and must therefore be a key source of financing.
however, public aid and domestic resources are not sufficient to cover all investment needs, and therefore a combination of public and private resources pursuing sustainable and long-term economic, social and environmental objectives is also important.
i agree that domestic resources are more predictable and sustainable than foreign aid, and that we need to improve, among other things, domestic tax collection in developing countries, and that the commission needs to improve its assistance to these countries in building capacity in the areas of tax administration and public financial management.
i supported the report of the committee on development (deve), which calls for a global partnership for financing, a prerequisite for achieving the new sustainable development goals.
green growth is enabling us to transition to a more sustainable economy.
if our consumption stays the same, we'll need 40% more energy in 20 years.
this bacterium causes a lot of damage to olive groves in the southern italian region of apulia, which could cause a lot of environmental and economic damage for that region.
it aims to define a number of areas of strategic cooperation, including science, environment, climate change and fisheries management.
i assume that the european union and japan also share the view that biodiversity is important in a global context.
the investment plan announced by commission president juncker, the measures taken by the european central bank, the positive economic climate, also due to the low oil price, are all circumstances that are in our favour.
healthy nutrition for children and adolescents is essential during the growth and development phase, as the energy and nutritional value of meals are important for energy, everyday functioning, growth and development of the body and psychosocial development.
in addition, the european commission is conducting research on the impact of the eu strategy on gender equality between 2010 and 2015. the latter show that today the division of labour between men and women is still based on economic models that are not environmentally sustainable.
i am convinced that the protection of intellectual property rights and appropriate measures to combat infringements of intellectual property rights can make a significant contribution to the fight against organised crime, money laundering and tax evasion and thus to the development of a fairer, more sustainable and innovation-friendly market.
i believe that the current strategy does not sufficiently recognise the distinction between physical counterfeiting of trademarks and patents on the one hand and copyright infringements, particularly in the digital environment, on the other.
i think the strategy should be more adapted to the digital environment.
energy security is of great importance to the european union.
it is necessary to provide the appropriate infrastructure, which will be key to ensuring energy security throughout the european union.
i agree, it is also important to define the wider meaning of energy policy in the eu.
the energy security report should be the basis for a long-term strategy.
what we don't want to do is to set up a system, a new smart border, which would mean in practice two things: a waste of money and new unnecessary barriers for passengers.
russia is an important partner of the european union and we should, for our mutual benefit, define and constructively establish a long-term sustainable relationship based on respect for international law.
i was happy to support this proposal myself, because i am sure that there is a great deal of awareness of the problem of climate change, and it is therefore important that it has been adopted by such a large majority in the european parliament today.
i am also pleased that other major polluters have followed this trend recently, and what was impossible to expect a few years ago, for example, that china would invest heavily in renewable energy, in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, is now a reality.
the european union needs to send a strong signal to the rest of the world in its commitment to address climate change.
not only is this a signal that the fight against climate change is of key importance for the eu, but also that the development of renewables, with their impact on fighting climate change, remains at the core of the energy strategy.
‒ the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol on climate change and the collective fulfilment of commitments focuses primarily on climate change.
the doha conference adopted a target of a 20 percent reduction in emissions that pollute the environment.
under the kyoto protocol, eu member states have committed themselves to limiting their greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of current levels.
in this context, it is necessary to mention in particular the concrete measures to further reduce global emissions before 2020 that member states are already implementing.
among them, the most important is the target of a 20% reduction in emissions.
this would create a level playing field and, above all, the eu would not have to meet all its climate commitments alone.
as enhanced action to combat climate change is of great importance, i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the joint fulfilment of commitments under this amendment.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint fulfilment of the commitments under that amendment.
the second kyoto protocol target period, 2013 2020, contains legally binding greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments under which the european union and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions to 80% of their base year emissions between 2013 and 2020. i support the rapporteur's view that the eu member states are the main contributors to the second target period of the kyoto protocol, but the biggest polluters are not.
the eu council should ensure that the ratification procedures in the member states and the eu are completed by the third quarter of 2015 at the latest, so that they can deposit their instruments of acceptance in time for the 2015 paris conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
this would send a strong signal about the efforts and leadership of the eu and its member states in addressing climate change at international level.
it is important to take account of the eu's policy on climate change and the promotion of renewable energy sources.
this is also supported by president juncker in the commission's programme, which envisages the eu taking the lead in the use and promotion of renewable energy sources.
in order to meet the commitments under the doha round and to maintain the target of keeping the global temperature increase to the 2 °c target, the right balance between economic and environmental challenges needs to be found in the context of sustainable development.
the european union is a driving force in the fight against climate change and i am pleased that iceland, which is not yet an eu member, is joining the eu's united fight to meet its commitments under the kyoto protocol.
iceland is already participating in the eu emissions trading system and the greenhouse gas monitoring mechanism, and its participation in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol is an upgrade to the unified fight against climate change.
i am pleased that more concrete steps are being taken recently to combat climate change, and i hope that a long-term agreement will be reached at the paris climate conference later this year.
the eu is leading the fight against climate change and is seen to be followed by the rest of the world's economies, which are among the biggest air polluters.
this is the only way to achieve the goal set by the doha agreement of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 to 80% of 1990 levels.
the european union is playing a leading role in the world in the fight against climate change and i support the continuation of such a policy.
i support iceland's accession to the second target period of the kyoto protocol, as it will only strengthen the fight against climate change and the european union will once again send a clear signal about coordinated european cooperation in the fight against climate change.
iceland is a party to annex i of the kyoto protocol that has met its target for the first target period, when it had to limit its emissions growth to an average of no more than 10%.
the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and iceland, of the other part, sends a strong signal for coordinated european action to address climate change at international level.
i voted in favour of this report because i am aware that, in addition to military and food security, energy security is a very important issue, one which must also be of great concern to the european parliament.
energy security is all the more at risk because most of the energy we import into europe, more than half of it, comes from politically risky areas, there was a lot of talk about russia today, a lot of energy also comes from the middle east, so it's right that we take decisive steps on the continent ourselves.
energy saving is the first and most important measure in energy policy, and i am pleased that this report is largely devoted to these very energy saving measures, but it is also important that the measures we are preparing for european politicians in parliament, that is to say, measures in the field of both the juncker plan and the energy union, are an opportunity for a whole range of infrastructure facilities that will allow greater market stability.
‒ energy supply, mainly from fossil fuels, has unfortunately become a matter of political influence.
the eu is in fact an energy dependent block, which each year imports more than eur 500 billion of energy.
in the long run, security in energy supply can be achieved only by establishing the right partnerships and ensuring sustainable and environmentally viable exploitation of the resources we already have, including the hugh potential of renewables.
the eu is in urgent need of a framework for improved energy security in order to pursue effective foreign policy and increase industry competitiveness through concrete actions to pool energy supplies among member states and clean up inefficiencies in external supply.
therefore, in the current geopolitical context, it is of utmost importance that the eu works hard on a long-term strategy in support of the upcoming energy union.
‒ the report on the european energy security strategy focuses on improving europe's energy security and efficiency in the light of the recent crises in russia and ukraine.
the importance of diversifying energy sources and not just a single energy supplier should be recognised.
although the time is right for the eu to focus on renewable energy sources, the report still focuses on gas and coal, whose supply would be spread over various third world countries.
nature offers us many opportunities and options for green energy, but unfortunately we do not use them to the maximum extent possible.
the use of renewable energy sources promotes decentralisation, better regulatory frameworks and self-consumption, with a view to improving energy security.
but the eu is still not completely moving away from nuclear energy.
it is true that nuclear power plants still contribute a large share of the total energy consumption, but with a well-designed plan this could change.
the nuclear and infrastructure problems mentioned above led me to vote against the report on the european energy security strategy.
‒ i abstained on the report on the european energy security strategy.
the european union today faces major challenges in energy supply.
in the current geopolitical context, energy security is all the more important.
the prosperity and security of the european union and its political independence depend to a large extent on a stable, affordable and sustainable energy supply.
the european union must come together and increase the use of its own resources: fossil fuels, renewable energy sources and economic technologies.
‒ i abstained from voting on the energy security strategy because it contained certain statements with which i cannot agree.
europe's prosperity and security depend on a stable and abundant supply of energy.
today, the eu imports 53% of its energy from third countries.
the new strategy provides a framework for improving energy security.
we need to ensure a stable and predictable environment for private investors, while promoting european technological capacity, research and science.
i therefore join the commission's call to promote negotiations between olaf and the supervisory board by preparing an action plan by 31 december 2015 to complement the working arrangements and thereby create a working environment in which the supervisory board can fulfil its mandate.
boycotting would miss the overall cultural effects that such an event brings to the environment where the games take place.
both from a military and an energy perspective.
this additional investment will be directed towards infrastructure, broadband and energy networks and transport infrastructure in industrial centres, education, research and innovation, and renewable energy and energy efficiency.
unfortunately, the report under-emphasises some important positions adopted by parliament in the past in this area, such as the call for the adoption of convergence guidelines under the codecision procedure to better coordinate economic policies and to put more emphasis on the social dimension of emu, while completely omitting some important aspects, such as the calls for a more democratic emu and a more ambitious european tax policy and the promotion of investments with long-term positive effects on society and the environment.
it is this agonizing wait that is one of the reasons for the general frustration and accumulation of negative political energy, mistrust between the parties, illegality and anomalies of another kind.
before adopting the indicators act, we must not forget the call for greater emphasis on the priority selection of sustainable projects that provide long-term and quality jobs.
in this context, i would like to emphasise that the member states must also do their homework and create a favourable investment environment through appropriate structural and economic reforms.
i, like the els political group, deplore the lack of compliance with the rules observed in several member states, as well as the weak implementation of the rules by the institutions, which we believe is the root cause of the national debt crises that many countries have faced since 2009. and to increase competitiveness, i support stable and sustainable public finances.
europe is the continent with the most ambitious environmental goals.
the circular economy is an opportunity for all for the economy, for new jobs, and above all for the environment and for a healthier approach to understanding the economy.
we have too many of these wild landfills, too much waste is being dumped, not recycled, and i think we need to invest more in data management research, or waste management research.
it is not surprising to me that the general public is so keenly interested in this agreement and is demanding political and legal guarantees to maintain standards relating to health, food, the environment and culture.
being more economically strong will help us to counteract some of the other weaknesses of the european union, such as weak energy resources, poor demographic trends, rising security risks, governance crises, the declining power of the european union in international politics, and so on.
i would of course say that we have heard that this agreement is not intended to lower standards, but i think that we must strive to raise standards in the european union in many areas, including the environment, social security and labour.
this aid comes from the european solidarity fund, and will serve to help the three countries repair damage to public and private infrastructure, private homes, businesses, agriculture, the environment and cultural heritage caused by the floods.
this will benefit society, the environment, social cohesion and tourism, while providing opportunities for innovation and thus contributing to the increased competitiveness of the european single market.
in order to achieve the objectives of the investment plan, other measures are necessary, such as the development of a system of indicators to assess ex ante the sustainability of investments and the quality of jobs, rather than merely the technical suitability of individual projects.
i support the commission's proposal for a european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which was reached thanks to the strong determination of all the institutions that investment in research and transport is essential and that it is necessary to increase the eu's competitiveness and contribute to the union's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the eu's ability to cope with extremely volatile markets or crisis situations is questionable, and the proposal therefore stresses the importance of building a successful, sustainable and competitive dairy sector across the eu (eliminating concentration in certain regions) and proposes the creation of appropriate crisis instruments to respond to the high level of price volatility and other problems facing the sector.
when designing the commission's 2016 programme, we need to keep in mind the following priorities: reducing the administrative burden on citizens and businesses (reducing the number of legislative proposals and focusing on the main priorities), new incentives for jobs, growth and investment, a resilient energy union and a sensible and balanced free trade agreement with the us.
our priority is a resilient energy union, leading to greater energy and economic independence, as well as ensuring the political independence and stability of the eu.
climate change policy must be future-oriented, and the reform of the emissions trading system (ets) is also important.
i support the pursuit of a mutually beneficial agreement that fully respects european social, environmental and consumer protection standards.
global trends such as inefficient use of resources, the intolerable pressure on the environment and climate change will soon reach irreversible effects.
the transition to a sustainable economy can create new quality jobs or green existing jobs.
sustainable economic growth is only possible if environmental constraints are respected.
investments should be targeted at areas with a positive impact on the labour market in order to create sustainable jobs.
public procurement policy also has a role to play, by applying sustainability provisions to responsible sourcing.
member states should fully implement the new provisions of the revised eu public procurement legislation and consider whether the introduction of environmental and social criteria in public procurement policies could encourage job creation in a greener economy.
i would also point out that it is of the utmost importance that member states encourage innovation in this area and provide a favourable economic environment for smes that show potential, especially in terms of their positive impact on employment.
it is up to the greek government to present a new and economically sound proposal, which must include reforms that will improve the economic environment so that greece finally becomes self-sustaining.
of course, there are areas in the eu that are particularly sensitive, such as agriculture, public services, consumer rights, environmental and labour standards, culture, etc.
it is no wonder that the general public is so keenly interested in this agreement and is demanding political and legal guarantees to maintain standards related to health, food, the environment and culture.
‒ the commission's proposal on certain elements of the corporate governance statement was published in 2014. the revision of the shareholder rights directive is part of the initiatives envisaged in the european commission's action plan 'european company law and corporate governance - a modern legal framework for better shareholder engagement and sustainable enterprises'.
‒ at first reading, i supported the report by mr belett, which substantially modified the european commission's document on the establishment and operation of the market stability reserve in the context of greenhouse gas emissions trading.
‒ the market stability reserve mechanism will create a better ets, by ensuring that the prices of co2 have the right balance to incentivise a low carbon economy on one hand and on the other hand avoid too low or too high prices because of over-supply or over-demand of emission allowances.
the ets is one of the basic building blocks which will allow europe to effectively fight against climate change and also create a positive incentive for the transition from fossil fuels.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the establishment and operation of the market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system.
a compromise between climate policy and industrial policy.
on the one hand, we all want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and co2 emissions, and on the other hand, we all want to preserve the european industry without which there are no jobs.
‒ i supported the report on the establishment and operation of the market stability reserve for the union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system.
in january 2014, the commission adopted the proposal for the ets-msr (the european union emissions trading system market stability reserve) with the aim of introducing structural changes to the emissions trading system.
‒ i voted in favour of this text which concerns a reform of the eu emissions trading scheme.
the reform, which will start operating in 2019, aims at reducing the surplus of carbon credits available for trading in order to support the price of the emission rights.
the main idea behind the reform is that it is necessary to ensure sufficient guarantees for energy-intensive industries (for which achieving less co2 emission requires very large investments), in order to prevent them from delocalising their production facilities to countries outside the eu that have less stringent climate policies.
this reform goes in the right direction towards achieving the goal of a 40% reduction of co2 emissions by 2030 that europe has set itself.
‒ on the basis of the recommendations of the committee on industry, research and energy, i have approved the conclusion of an agreement with the swiss confederation to join certain research and development programmes within the eu.
the agreement lays down the terms and conditions for the participation of switzerland in the implementation of horizon 2020, the actions under the objective 'promoting excellence and increasing participation', the euratom programme and the activities of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the period 2014-2020. particularly concerning is the participation of switzerland in fusion for energy activities.
the iter project is one of the least sustainable programmes funded by the european union and may not provide concrete, practical and usable solutions until at least 2050. the delays in implementation and the poorly defined results indicate that the future way of implementing this project should be carefully considered.
‒ the european parliament has given its consent to the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other part, on the swiss confederation's association with horizon 2020, the european atomic energy community programme complementing horizon 2020, and on its participation in the activities of the iter project carried out by the fusion for energy joint undertaking.
iter is one of the least sustainable eu-funded projects.
‒ i voted in favour of the mandate to start trilogues on the 2016 budget because the commission proposal addresses a series of key priorities, such as an effective energy union and the delivery of a digital single market.
‒ i supported the own-initiative report on the promotion of the green economy, because it is very clear that investments in the green economy and in the use of renewable energy sources also generate new jobs.
‒ i supported the report because it highlights that the transition to sustainable societies and economies, including sustainable consumption and production patterns, can create potential both in terms of creating new jobs and in terms of turning existing jobs green in virtually all sectors and across the value chain, and in new green high-tech sectors such as renewable energy sources and in traditional economic sectors, agriculture and fisheries, and in the service sectors.
the report also highlights that investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency can create many new jobs, contribute to the competitiveness of the european economy and industry, and help reduce europe's energy dependence.
they are the answer to global challenges, sustainable development and climate change.
the report proposes tools to ensure that the employment and environment agendas contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives, while focusing on a number of issues such as tax reforms, environmental and energy efficiency and resource efficiency, highlighting the role of smes, and so on.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission proposal to foster employment creation linked to the production of energy from renewable sources, energy efficiency, waste and water management, air quality, restoring and preserving biodiversity, and developing green infrastructure.
the key aspect is that through the increase in the efficiency of production processes, through adopting innovative solutions to save resources and offering more sustainable products and services, companies can at the same time expand their markets and create new jobs.
the report endorses the view that adequate eu funding must be guaranteed to support this green transition and that the european structural and investment funds will be the key sources of investment to promote sustainable growth and job creation.
‒ i am pleased to have been able to support the circular economy report, whose main objective is to develop a strategy for the efficient and sustainable use of natural resources.
i also welcome the views of mr timmermans and mr katainen, two vice-presidents of the european commission, who are drawing up an ambitious plan for a circular economy on the way to a waste-free europe.
europe is the continent with the most ambitious environmental targets.
we have the highest standards in environmental protection and human health.
energy saving and energy efficiency, one of the eu's key objectives, are also important.
‒ i voted in favour of a report calling for binding targets for waste reduction, complementary legislation on the environmental design of products and measures to decouple growth from the use of natural resources.
the circular economy is a challenge for the eu, as it will ensure economic and social sustainability and encourage the efficient use of resources.
it would also be more effective in preserving our environment.
in response to rising pollution and inefficient use of resources, the commission presented a 'circular economy package' in 2014. the package includes an introductory idea for a programme for a waste-free europe, a legislative proposal for a review of waste legislation, a communication on resource efficiency in the construction sector, a communication on a green action plan for small and medium-sized enterprises and a communication on green employment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that working towards a circular economy is a key step towards implementing the resource efficiency agenda established under the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
circular economy systems keep the added value in products for a longer time and significantly reduce waste.
‒ i abstained from the final vote on the report by ms pietikäinen on resource efficiency, as the transition to a circular economy can bring many benefits for both the environment and the economy, but at the same time many of the report's requirements represent an unnecessary increase in bureaucracy and are not sufficiently finalised (e.g.
the circular economy can reduce environmental pressures, have a positive impact on health and reduce europe's dependence on imported raw materials, and could create up to 2 million jobs by 2030, according to european commission estimates.
according to some studies, the energy efficiency of buildings could generate over eur 1 billion a year in the eu.
with proper building insulation, the eu could save millions of tonnes of fossil fuels and drastically reduce co2 emissions.
i therefore expect the legislative proposal that the european commission will draw up by the end of 2015 to be more sophisticated than the pietikäinen report, while taking into account all the benefits that the circular economy can bring to europe's economy, environment and people.
the business environment is now unfavourable to companies, which are still heavily dependent on banks and relatively less so on capital markets.
‒ the julie red report on copyright and related rights in the information society aims to improve the european copyright legal framework and bring it into line with digital progress and the environment.
the report is the first so-called milestone by the european parliament to require mandatory minimum standards for user rights in the area of copyright in the digital environment.
as mrs red's report is well structured and represents a major step forward in the area of copyright in the digital environment, i supported the report and voted for its adoption in the european parliament.
in a regulated environment, this may seem an unreasonable requirement.
while simplifications of the cap are welcome because of its complexity, we must be careful that deregulation measures do not lead to setbacks in key areas such as improving social and environmental standards.
flexible labour and succession legislation and incentives to improve the business environment are essential.
the report, however, paints an excessively idyllic picture of the attempt to define a 'family business', which would also require the controversial definition of a 'family' (stabilisation of the economy, high social responsibility towards employees and the environment, etc.).
of course, stable macroeconomic policies, a well-functioning legal environment for business and flexible labour legislation are crucial for the good functioning and development of family businesses.
although these areas offer us many opportunities for economic exploitation, from fishing, tourism, shipbuilding, ports, energy, etc., there is still a lot of potential, especially for more sustainable ways of using the resources that science and research can offer us.
the environmental, ecological and social functions of the seas and oceans therefore require a strong role for states in the sustainable management and conservation of resources, with the aim of ensuring that the public good prevails over the interests of individuals.
the protection and conservation of natural marine environments are fundamental to the conservation, support and development of the blue economy, and sustainable ecosystems are a prerequisite for the exploitation of the resources of the seas and oceans.
there is a serious lack of data, information and knowledge in this area on the seas and oceans, their resources and biodiversity, and their links with human activities and their environmental and cumulative impacts.
i believe that marine and ocean research needs to be promoted to enable the development of a blue economy and sustainable economic activity.
the report contains some important points, such as an integrated approach to all sectors based on the principle of sustainability, an ecosystem approach and the precautionary principle, which i believe should be at the heart of all activities that affect the marine environment.
i am also in favour of the key points in the report relating to energy, sustainable aquaculture and a prudent approach to deep-sea mining, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
i welcome the report because it also touches on the potential of exploiting marine resources for the development of sustainable renewable energy sources, which can make a major contribution to europe's energy security strategy.
this would reduce the member states' dependence on energy sources that do not come from the eu.
including fisheries, aquaculture, maritime transport, inland waterway transport, ports and logistics, tourism, sailing, cruising, shipbuilding, maritime work for coastal protection, exploration and exploitation of mineral and energy resources at sea, and biotechnology.
young people are proof that it is possible to adapt, and of course this must be followed by policies to create a favourable business environment.
modules on the fundamentals of finance, economics and the business environment should be included in school curricula.
the report clearly indicates the importance of using available resources in an integrated approach to support, enhance and promote cultural heritage, while also taking into account the cultural, economic, social, historical, educational, environmental and scientific components.
local communities also have a role to play here, as they must begin to discover and recognise the importance and preservation of the cultural heritage of their area in their environment.
the text highlights the importance of eu funding and european institutions' contributions to member states in order to preserve and promote cultural heritage, while putting forward solutions to reach its full social, economic and environmental potential.
it has a great potential for the sustainable development of individuals, societies and economies, but this potential has not yet been fully exploited at eu level.
the partnership framework established must aim to develop a sustainable fisheries policy, as you have stressed today, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate, and to promote the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources.
in particular, the focus is on fisheries, both economically and socially, and also directly on sustainable development.
this control system can of course be an important issue, particularly because the countries with which we conclude agreements are of course not immune to corruption, to irregularities, and so we must of course take care that despite the compensation paid for fishing, there is no so-called illegal fishing, which could also endanger fish stocks, which of course can also be seen in the ecosystem itself.
whereas it is of the utmost importance to plan for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and whereas relations between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau need to be strengthened.
whereas it is of the utmost importance to plan for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and whereas relations between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau need to be strengthened.
a close partnership between the eu and cape verde is needed, leading to the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources.
because it is of the utmost importance to plan for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and because we need to strengthen relations between countries.
because it is of the utmost importance to plan for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and because we need to strengthen relations between countries.
at the same time, it is crucial to plan for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and to strengthen relations between countries.
the daily migration of people, and the associated environmental pollution, and all these questions require quality answers.
this report sets out the guidelines for future sustainable urban development policy at european level, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
cities, alongside economic development, also bring problems, and we need to find solutions to these problems: education, sport, a decent life for everyone, clean air, transport, emissions, etc.
‒ the report on the urban dimension of eu policies states that many of the challenges europe still faces are related to the economy, the environment, the climate.
solutions to these issues need to be sought, for example resource efficiency and a carbon-neutral economy; economic development and innovation; social innovation and integration.
it is important that we as individuals are aware of this, and the state must be aware of this as well, and create an enabling environment for acquiring the skills and competences that are most in demand in the market.
systematic efforts are needed to ensure greater sustainability of health systems and to reduce quality gaps.
finally, efficiency, accessibility and sustainability are also crucially dependent on the european science, research and technological development penetration, which we must support.
cohesion policy is a major investment and aims to create jobs, competitiveness, economic growth, sustainable development and improve the quality of life of citizens.
according to the statistical office of the republic of slovenia, in the first half of 2014, 17.5% of the population aged 65 or over lived in slovenia, which is 0.2 percentage points more than at the end of 2013 and 0.5 percentage points more than at the end of 2012. the eu must therefore address the demographic, social and other changes brought about by an ageing population and provide a positive environment for older people to fulfil their potential.
at the same time, the proposals aim to significantly reduce europe's dependence on imported oil and to reduce carbon emissions from transport by 60% by 2050. in principle, i think the white paper is well written, but i am also in favour of updating the emission reduction targets, of ensuring the internalisation of the external costs of all modes of freight and passenger transport to avoid double taxation, of establishing the facts on the social, economic and environmental benefits that would be gained from further support for national and international night rail services and ic services, of banning noisy freight wagons throughout the eu by 2020, of exploring the possibility of extending sulphur limits in marine fuels for the whole of the european maritime area and of promoting walking and cycling.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: assessment and the way forward towards sustainable mobility.
we must constantly strive to achieve improvements in a variety of areas: sustainability, innovation, smart transport systems, increasing cleaner transport, decarbonisation, noise, air quality, etc.
we also have a lot of work to do in the area of urban transport, but we must be very careful not to impose solutions that are not appropriate for a particular local environment.
as the report calls for more frequent and sustainable development-oriented intervention, i supported it.
this is a basic condition for women and girls to enjoy their full human rights and is essential for strengthening their role and for building a sustainable and inclusive society.
such measures (including the idea of creating a special company category for such enterprises and granting them a special legal status of their own) have the main objective of fostering employment among vulnerable groups and contributing to positive social and environmental impact in local communities.
to create a more equitable, sustainable and inclusive society and quality jobs, economic and social policy reforms and ambitious labour market reforms are also needed.
‒ as the resolution encourages member states to adopt ambitious economic policies and labour market reforms, in particular with a view to achieving sustainable and inclusive growth, i supported it.
it is important that we as individuals are aware of this, and the state must be aware of this as well, and create an enabling environment for acquiring the skills and competences that are most in demand in the market.
if our countries were able to agree on burden-sharing immediately, we would have the time and energy today to focus on implementing measures that would create stability and peace in war zones.
climate change is therefore one of the greatest challenges facing the modern world, with proven impacts on the number and frequency of extreme weather events, biodiversity loss, agricultural production and food security, and, last but not least, on human health.
the european union and slovenia are therefore faced with a difficult task, namely how to restructure the economy so that the exploitation of the environment and resources available for economic growth is no longer taken for granted.
above all, a more responsible approach to the environment is the challenge we have to face, and it is, in fact, the so-called circular economy and, of course, the so-called green economy that can offer new opportunities.
it is therefore of particular importance to me that the ministry of the environment and spatial planning of slovenia has published a draft framework programme for the transition to a green economy and invited the participants to participate in it.
it is essential, however, that refit is not used as an excuse to deregulate or lower ambitions in the area of social and environmental standards.
the potential over-promotion of deregulation under the pretext of better regulation or burden reduction may have long-term negative consequences for eu policy objectives, including environmental, social, health and safety standards.
by reducing administrative and clerical workloads, we must strive to create quality jobs while preserving existing jobs in europe, thereby strengthening competitiveness and sustainable growth.
at the same time, it addresses the issue of the energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy.
the text urges the commission to show a strong and clear political vision on the most pressing challenges ahead, from energy supply and climate change to job creation, migration, the rule of democracy and fundamental law.
all in all, the text stresses that european citizens’ most urgent expectations should be at the core of the commission’s work programme in 2016, while ensuring that democracy and social and environmental standards of living are not compromised.
only such companies can chart the path to sustainable development.
these already face the challenge of providing access to education, healthcare, food, housing and energy resources to a growing population, and the need for additional financial resources will increase in the coming years.
so we need to have sustainable solutions.
the protocol provides that member states of the ilo are to develop a national policy and action plan for the effective and sustainable abolition of forced labour and to adopt measures to implement the provisions of the protocol in consultation with employers' and workers' organisations.
this fund aims to give aid in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment or the economy and is designed to provide fast, effective and flexible emergency financial aid.
‒ greece has been significantly affected by the financial and economic crisis, as the country is facing a severe liquidity shortage and a lack of available public funds for public investments needed to promote a sustainable recovery of the economy.
good governance at local level is the key to sustainable development, and the principle of subsidiarity is one of those things that all national governments should respect to the greatest extent possible.
the emergence of direct democracy and sustainable territorial development based on the participation of the local community and its democratic will will play a central role in the achievement of the objectives of the post-2015 development agenda.
the new global sustainable development framework offers an opportunity to ensure the broad involvement of civil society organisations, local authorities and national parliaments.
‒ i supported the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation, as it contributes to sustainable development and effective governance at local level.
the strategic planning at national and local level is absolutely essential to the promotion and integration of the three main dimensions of development: the social, economic and environmental dimensions.
turkey, which respects democratic values at home and in its regional environment, is needed as a partner in the refugee crisis more than ever.
since tunisia has significant long-term growth potential and since the implementation of the expected reforms, in conjunction with existing resources such as human resources and an open economy, will unlock this potential and stimulate its economy in a more sustainable and inclusive way, i supported the recommendation for a draft decision.
in addition to regulating emissions, more efforts could be made to develop and subsidize district heating systems based on medium combustion plants.
such systems, such as biomass boilers, can make a significant contribution to cleaner air, as they are disproportionately cleaner and healthier than private and small combustion plants, precisely because of their limited emissions.
the main reason for adopting the proposed directive is, of course, the desire to have a cleaner environment and thus the health and well-being of all european citizens.
‒ i supported the report on limiting emissions of pollutants from medium combustion plants into the air, because it deals with an area of emissions that is still unregulated.
air pollution is the source of many respiratory diseases, and i believe that emissions should be limited.
‒ emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants, of which there are around 150,000 in the eu, are currently not regulated at eu level (small combustion plants are regulated by directive 2009/125/ec and large combustion plants by directive 2010/75/eu).
such combustion plants are used in several sectors (electricity generation, domestic heating and cooling, heat/steam production for industrial processes) and are an important source of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust emissions.
the commission therefore proposed the establishment of limit values for new and existing installations which would contribute significantly to the reduction of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust pollution.
it also set up a simple registration procedure, which would make a significant contribution to meeting member states' emission reduction commitments and prevent any trade-offs between air quality and increased use of biomass that would otherwise lead to higher air pollution.
‒ i voted in favour of a report on limiting emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants into the air.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
this will preserve and improve air quality and protect citizens from further air pollution.
this directive is a good combination of environmental protection, economic needs and social requirements that can be implemented without imposing an excessive additional burden on operators and end-users.
‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants, as it seeks to limit sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide in the eu for emissions from medium combustion plants.
in areas where emissions from these plants are in breach of eu air quality standards, it is appropriate to invite eu member states to assess for themselves whether stricter restrictions are necessary.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air, in order to achieve the improvement of air quality, with proper safeguards for the operation of existing plants.
‒ on 4 october 2010, a sewage treatment plant in hungary leaked, releasing almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red sludge (considered hazardous waste under council directive 91/689/eec), flooding several villages, killing 10 people and injuring nearly 150. the spill also caused pollution of a large area, including four natura 2000 sites.
i agree that a strong focus on accident prevention is essential, as this is not an isolated case of this type of environmental disaster.
i also believe that research and development in the field of hazardous waste prevention and treatment should be strengthened.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the lessons learned from the red mud disaster after the accident in hungary, as i believe that the disaster in hungary in 2010, when a waste water collection tank leaked, releasing almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud, reminded us of the importance of monitoring such installations.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the commission and the member states to step up their efforts to ensure the full implementation and proper application of all relevant eu legislation and all relevant international conventions with regard not only to aluminium production and the environmentally sound management of red mud but also to the environmentally sound management of hazardous waste in general.
on 4 october 2010, the collapse of a waste reservoir in hungary released almost one million cubic metres of highly alkaline red mud.
the resolution also commemorates the victims on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of this tragic event, and supporting it is also an acknowledgement that much more should be done in environmental disaster prevention and management.
this includes supporting partner countries in creating a more favourable environment for the full realisation of the rights of girls and women and in achieving long-term improvements in gender equality.
‒ the forthcoming international climate conference in paris is undoubtedly one of the key international events of the year, and as with all previous climate conferences, there are high expectations ahead of the upcoming one regarding the guidelines adopted.
the proposed report, which i supported, represents in my view an ambitious starting point for the negotiations on a climate agreement, which are being put forward by the european parliament.
last year, the latter called for the following targets to be achieved by 2030: a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas concentrations, a 40% improvement in energy efficiency and a 30% increase in the share of renewable energy sources in all energy sources.
in its resolution on the forthcoming paris climate conference, it made a clear commitment to these goals and remained committed to their binding nature.
i sincerely hope that all the participants in the paris climate conference will take responsibility and reach a sufficiently ambitious agreement for a cleaner future.
‒ i supported the report 'towards a new international climate agreement in paris' prepared by the european parliament for the cop21 in paris.
caring for the future of our planet is closely linked to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and protecting the environment, and achieving this will require respecting the agreement.
‒ i supported the proposal on the way to a new international climate agreement in paris, as i believe that the time is ripe for ambitious change, as climate change requires an immediate, responsible and global response based on solidarity from the international community.
the paris agreement is ambitious, global and legally binding, and has positive implications for all eu citizens, particularly in the light of climate change mitigation and adaptation.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu’s negotiating position for the international climate conference in paris.
the european parliament has called for the setting aside of a number of eu carbon market allowances after 2020 for international climate finance and i hope this resolution will, in particular, support a concrete eu mechanism for international climate finance.
climate finance will be crucial to forge much-needed coalitions and ensure poor countries can leapfrog towards clean and climate-resilient development.
we also called on eu finance ministers to back parliament´s proposal and use the eu’s carbon market for international finance.
air pollution is one of the biggest public health risks in europe.
a significant proportion of europe's population lives in areas where air quality is severely impaired by ozone, nitrogen dioxide and, in particular, particulate matter.
the european environment agency's data, which predicts high mortality from air pollution in the coming years, is also of concern.
the artemis joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in different fields of application, with the aim of improving european competitiveness and sustainability in the field of new market design and societal applications.
it is not enough to implement the budget lawfully and correctly, it is also increasingly important to achieve long-term positive effects on the economy, society and the environment through prudent spending.
it is not enough to implement the budget lawfully and correctly, it is also increasingly important to achieve long-term positive effects on the economy, society and the environment through prudent spending.
the ebola outbreak has shown that local and national health systems in low-income countries are under-resourced and under-sustainable to respond to an outbreak of a communicable disease such as ebola.
i am convinced that new standards on fuel consumption and emissions will do us no good if we do not respect the existing ones.
the eu strategy to reduce fuel consumption and co2 emissions from heavy-duty vehicles (also applicable to buses) is also worth mentioning, as it represents a pathway to a low-carbon society and a plan to transform the eu into a low-carbon economy by 2050. it is clear that both the commission and the member states must do more to correct the irregularities, to strengthen and improve the controls and to ensure that consumers, who are among the most affected by such infringements, are properly informed.
i supported the resolution because i strongly condemn any fraud by car manufacturers, as excess emissions affect human health and cause environmental damage.
the commission should therefore adopt as soon as possible a new test cycle based on real driving emissions, and at the same time apply such a test to other pollutants, allowing consumers to make decisions based on comprehensive and unbiased technical characteristics.
it is necessary to strengthen the existing ec vehicle type-approval regime, including by increasing the supervision of authorities in the member states, and the commission should also take further measures to strengthen the ec strategy for sustainable transport, leading to a real reduction in real transport emissions and improving urban mobility.
i agree with the request that the commission introduce tests for real-world emissions generated during driving for all vehicles type-approved or registered after 2015 to ensure the effectiveness of emission control systems.
the resolution was amended by the epp political group, which supports the use of diesel engines in cars, while also stating that diesel engines have lower exhaust emissions than other equivalent vehicles using petrol.
the volkswagen scandal highlights the (un) reliability of the systems and procedures used to verify emissions compliance rather than the rigidity of european standards compared to american standards.
the automotive industry in the european union is very important both in terms of its contribution to reducing emissions and combating climate change and in terms of employment.
‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution on emission measurement in the automotive sector, as i believe that air pollution in the eu causes too many negative effects on the health and lives of eu citizens every year, and the cost of the health effects of pollution on the population is also more than eur 900 billion per year.
in addition to many diseases and high costs, pollutants also contribute to environmental degradation.
one third of the eu's urban population is still exposed to pollution, and 20 member states still fall short of eu air quality limit values.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the emissions testing fraud should be investigated thoroughly and those responsible should face appropriate sanctions.
i agree that eu emissions testing system should be strengthened to ensure that eu emission limits are respected and that vehicles exceeding these limits are discovered quickly.
i strongly condemn any fraud by automobile manufacturers and deplore the fact that millions of consumers have been deceived, and regret the damage to human health and the environment from excessive emissions.
we have set out our vision and the concrete measures necessary in various areas: investment plan, digital single market, energy union, european agenda on security, european agenda on migration, capital markets union, action plan for fair and efficient corporate taxation, new trade strategy, deepened and strengthened economic and monetary union.
still this year, we will complete the picture with our plans for a sustainable circular economy, labour mobility and better management of our external borders.
we now will focus on improving the investment environment and deepening the single market so that it delivers better outcomes, fewer barriers and the right environment for innovation, especially among smes and start—ups.
thirdly, the eu being a lead player in the paris climate talks, we will follow up with three important packages under the energy union.
we will set out a new approach to ensure europe’s economic, social and environmental sustainability, taking into account the europe 2020 review and the united nation’s sustainable development goals.
the challenges such as migration, access to energy and other resources, and climate change also show the need for an effective external dimension to deliver on major internal policy objectives.
today more than ever before you can no longer distinguish between internal and external – i just want to point to the sustainable development goals, they can no longer distinguish between the two elements.
everything has come together like a perfect storm: the economic crisis, the financial crisis, the refugee crisis, international threats, the climate crisis, the environmental crisis and the sustainability crisis.
the commission will focus in 2016 on measures to tackle the refugee crisis, create jobs, boost growth and the single market, ensure tax fairness and promote economic, social and environmental sustainability.
however, i would like to point out that the programme should not be used as an excuse to lower ambition, deregulate or lower social and environmental standards.
we talked about energy connections, we talked about the environment as a key parameter for a good living environment and, of course, sustainable tourism.
health and environmental protection are two things that are very much in focus in europe, and i think that europe can and should be an example to other countries around the world in these areas.
the steps have already been taken in the past, in the next steps i follow what is also the position of the european people's party, that we must be moderate in these steps and at the same time take into account both the expectations and certainly the need to protect the environment on the one hand and on the other hand also give those who are involved in both industry and agriculture the opportunity to adapt their techniques to these new requirements.
so we have to be precise in this case and act in accordance with the requirements of a healthier environment as well as the environment.
the main areas of the budget are: competitiveness for growth and jobs; economic, social and territorial cohesion; sustainable growth: natural resources; security and citizenship; global europe and administrative and research support expenditure.
while many measures are aimed at economic and technological development, job creation and economic growth, this growth must be sustainable.
in addition to resource efficiency and carbon reduction, we must also work for our marine ecosystem.
‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 on certain provisions for fisheries in the area covered by the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement, as i believe that by transposing the gfcm recommendations into the union legal order, we will provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, sound management and best exploitation of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea to a degree that is considered sustainable and does not pose a risk of their depletion.
the text outlines the agreement on the transposition into the union law of several recommendations made by the gfcm, which provide an appropriate framework for multilateral cooperation to promote the development, conservation, rational management and best utilisation of living marine resources in the mediterranean and the black sea at levels which are considered sustainable and at low risk of collapse.
the regulation should be based on a clear analysis of the health, environmental and social consequences of the proposed scheme.
‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 (to reject the council proposal) as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory, as member states should have the right and freedom to restrict and prohibit genetically modified food and feed on their territory if they have evidence that genetically modified food and feed have adverse effects on human health or the environment.
‒ i supported the proposed directive with the reasonable compromise amendments adopted, as i support the eu's transition to a low-carbon society.
i supported the report because the european union needs legislation to limit more emissions of the main air pollutants, including ammonia.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'air pollution' to cover all air pollution.
‒ the report on the proposal for a directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants sets binding national emission reduction commitments for 2020, 2025 and 2030. the aim is to limit emissions of air pollutants and to contribute effectively to the eu's objective of achieving better air quality.
the aim is to reduce the negative effects on human health caused by air pollution.
in order to effectively reduce emissions of the major air pollutants, national air pollution control programmes should include measures applicable to all relevant sectors, including agriculture, industry, road transport, inland waterway transport and domestic maritime transport, domestic heating and solvents.
‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec, because i believe that air quality is important for human health and the environment and that the current situation of air pollutants requires immediate, global and responsible action.
blue growth), to plan together transport and energy policies and to take a coordinated approach to environmental protection.
the action plan for this part of europe thus envisages improving and integrating the tourist offer with a focus on sustainable tourism and expects improvements in transport and energy infrastructure.
‒ i believe that the european union's strategy for the adriatic-ionian region is important because of its strategic nature and for promoting sustainable economic growth, reducing social disparities in the region, improving transport connectivity, accelerating the integration of the western balkans into the eu and so on.
however, in this place, as a green mep, i would like to focus on the environmental quality pillar, which is one of the four main pillars of the strategy.
the adriatic-ionian region is of growing importance for the eu's energy security.
i want to express my concern about the construction of energy infrastructure, oil and gas exploration, because the adriatic and ionian seas are very sensitive.
for this reason, i believe it is essential to respect eu legislation, especially during the environmental impact assessment phases.
here, a concerted approach is needed to protect the sea and also to protect biodiversity.
despite the importance of joint energy policy planning and the objective of meeting energy and gas needs, we must be careful not to place too much pressure on the adriatic and the ionian sea as well, in the face of all these changes.
with this strategy we can take advantage of the exceptional opportunity given to the countries in the region to turn a page on past economic and political problems by working together, with the commission’s guidance, to pursue prosperity and sustainable development.
it is aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which aims to close the gap between regions and promote convergence.
the eu is still facing the consequences of the economic and financial crisis (high unemployment, uneven and slow economic recovery), so it is essential that the different eu initiatives for growth, jobs and environmental and climate protection maintain a coherent approach.
i welcome the report as it has provided a better insight into the current evolution of cohesion policy towards the europe 2020 strategy and has shown that a better investment environment could be ensured to maximise the contribution of cohesion policy to the achievement of the strategy's guiding objectives.
the europe 2020 strategy aims at smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ i supported the report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy, as i believe that the european union's long-term strategy for growth and jobs will bring new jobs, innovation, prevent climate change and ensure energy sustainability and new educational opportunities, and will be even more active in the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
cohesion policy is the eu’s main investment growth and development policy aligned with the goals of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and aimed at reducing disparities between regions and promoting convergence, with a budget of eur 351.8 billion until the end of 2020. a mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy affords above all an opportunity to assess (and acknowledge) the contribution of cohesion policy to achieving the strategy’s targets and to improve existing interactions and links between various eu policies and with the eu budget, with a view to them acting as an effective driving force for the implementation of the strategy.
‒ article 23 of the common provisions regulation (regulation (eu) no 1303/2013) provides that, in order to allow for a performance-oriented approach and to achieve the objectives of the union strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, it would be necessary to establish a performance reserve for each member state of 6% of the total allocation for the investment for growth and jobs goal and for the eafrd and measures financed under the emff regulation.
the cohesion policy is also an investment policy contributing to achieving the goals of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the sustainability of health systems is in serious question.
we therefore need a common european strategy, particularly in the areas of security, privacy, accountability, qualifications and environmental protection.
i also agree that much more must be done in terms of prevention, and i agree with the need to support investment in early intervention and in high-quality, accessible and inclusive services, including in education from an early age, family and community support, social services and sustainable healthcare systems.
furthermore, the health and social care sectors represent crucial areas for investment in pursuit of sustainable economies.
increased employment rates for the long-term unemployed would contribute to sustainable growth, while also potentially relieving the burden on public finances.
this is the appropriate protection of natural and cultural sites and awareness of the potential negative impacts that tourism can have on the environment.
the resolution addresses several topics such as the branding/joint promotion of europe as a quality tourist destination, pan-european and transnational tourism products, unlocking the potential of coastal and marine tourism, sustainable, responsible and social tourism, accessibility, sharing economy and the power of digitalisation, etc.
it should be noted that european airlines have closed or are planning to close more than 20,000 jobs since 2012. the impact of air transport on climate change is also significant.
it contributes to about 13% of the carbon dioxide emissions in eu transport.
the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2014 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2014. the international civil aviation organisation (icao), the eu and the member states need to improve various legal and financial regulations, such as the intra-eu emissions trading system, increased passenger rights, duties and national taxes, noise reduction at airports and operating time limits.
interoperability increasingly promotes the potential quality of public services and creates an environment that allows businesses to be more competitive and citizens to be more satisfied.
interoperability solutions will modernise public administration in the eu, improve the quality of public services and improve the competitive environment for businesses.
with this report, we call on the european commission to take account of some of the difficulties in the overall approach to safety, environment and performance regulation.
the aviation package should provide a much-needed boost for a more sustainable and competitive european aviation industry, strengthen european airlines, airports and the aeronautic industry, ensure a level playing field in the global market and set out a long-term strategy for europe’s aviation sector.
i support the report because i believe that all children should have the right to education, health care, housing and to grow up in a caring family environment.
the european union has some shortcomings, energy malnutrition being one of the most fatal.
in fact, one could say that energy is more dividing the european political scene than it is uniting it.
it is in this area that the national egoisms that have led to the demise of the energy union in the last year are most pronounced.
we certainly need to continue to develop the concept of an energy community and to involve other neighbouring countries, in particular norway.
today, we often hear the false dilemma of whether we are building a low-carbon society or a competitive european industry (which still relies too much on carbon energy).
for europe's future, a low-carbon economy is a necessity (not an alternative), because only so-called clean energy will free us from dependence on russian gas and arab oil.
during the transition period, we should focus more on diversification, renewable and alternative energy sources.
when the eu 'speaks with one voice' in this area too, and breaks free from this energy dependence, we will also be a more important player on the global political stage.
but since 2013, regional integration organisations such as the eu have been given membership of the enlarged commission, giving them greater direct influence on all activities related to bluefin tuna, sustainable management of marine resources and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
i believe it is important for the eu to participate in regional fisheries organisations, which enable it to contribute to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
i support the european union's involvement in all those organisations where it can contribute to the sustainable management of marine resources and to combating illegal fishing.
i support the union's very active participation in all regional fisheries organisations and its contribution to the rational and sustainable management of marine resources and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
‒ the un convention on the rights of the child states that all children should be guaranteed the right to education, health care, housing, protection, leisure, a balanced diet and to grow up in a family environment.
i myself, during my time as mayor of krk, devoted a lot of time and energy to improving the situation of roma and roma children.
i believe that all children should have the right to education, health care and to grow up in a normal and safe family environment.
this topic is extremely important and the resolution acknowledges a lot that has been already said at the un level, about guaranteeing to all children the right to education, healthcare services, housing, protection, participation in decisions that affect them, leisure and free time, a balanced diet and the receipt of care in a family environment.
i believe that the eu and its member states should be at the heart of the post-2015 development agenda and work with the un and all other stakeholders to make ambitious commitments to achieve the future sustainable development goals.
good occupational health and safety at work will not only contribute to longer, healthier, safer and more sustainable working lives but will also have a positive impact on the european union’s productivity and competitiveness, and indeed on the sustainability of our social security systems.
companies need to be made aware that the administrative burden and costs of complying with and enabling an occupational health and safety policy that promotes well-being, a good working environment and productivity are significantly less than the burden and costs of occupational diseases and accidents.
too often, investing in a healthy work environment is seen as a cost.
the employee must take care of himself first and avoid harmful habits and dangerous behaviour, the employer must ensure that he is constantly investing in the development of a healthy working environment, and the state must support the efforts of both.
establishing and maintaining a healthy and safe working environment is a process that is never finished.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution that addresses the identification of dehp as a substance giving rise to an equivalent level of concern due to its endocrine disrupting properties in the environment.
i strongly believe that the commission is accountable to the european public for protecting citizens and the environment from hazardous chemicals, while promoting innovation, including in the area of safer chemicals and products to foster a resilient economy.
promoting an attractive business environment and attracting investment is certainly very important in today's world.
people need to be provided with a safe and healthy working environment.
i believe that all employees are entitled to a safe and healthy working environment.
the workforce in many member states is ageing and the demographic changes in europe point to the need to promote a safe and healthy working environment for all workers throughout their working life cycle.
health and safety at work is an investment with a positive impact on the productivity and competitiveness of the enterprise, and it also improves the sustainability of social security systems.
as i said in the debate on sustainable development and the post-millennial goals, all that we aspire to can be achieved if our societies live in peace and freedom, if they are attentive to the dignity of each and every individual and to all identities, regardless of their number.
i also support the resolution's call for a cooperation agreement between ecuador and the eu to support specific environmental programmes in relation to the prevention of deforestation.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for 2016-2020, as i believe it proposes a well-founded call on the commission to address in a comprehensive manner environmental and public health problems that also arise from a lack of concern for animal welfare.
the resolution calls on the commission to support the development of a new sustainable food policy that would take into account the improvement of animal welfare on farms in conjunction with the expansion of plant-based food and consumption.
as we've said here today, it has to become a way of life, and in implementing this circular economy, we also have to focus a lot on the human being, because the individual decides how much to put on the plate, whether or not to throw food away, the individual decides what to do with the waste.
more ambitious proposals would bring about a number of much needed changes from an environmental, economic and social point of view.
therefore, i believe that the more recent package of proposals, which does not contain effective and binding measures to reduce resource consumption and does not include resource consumption indicators in the framework of the european semester, will unfortunately not contribute to sustainable development to the extent that is needed and desired.
we cannot waste resources today that our future generations will need to use.
we must use them efficiently, and their use must be linked to economic growth, employment and, of course, environmental protection.
it is essential that cities implement sustainable urban development, digitalisation, investment and innovation in urban transport as soon as possible.
sustainable urban mobility for me means the prudent use and combination of different forms of transport: cars, public transport, bicycles and walking, as each of them has both advantages and disadvantages.
good practices such as those in denmark and the netherlands show that sustainable mobility is not a utopia.
it is high time to make better use of these insights to develop more effective policies, including in promoting sustainable urban mobility.
so this is one of the largest parks in the world, it's one of the parks with almost the greatest biodiversity, and there's been warnings for years about the dangers of oil drilling in these areas.
however, i think we also have to communicate from this platform that these parks can also be a huge opportunity for so-called sustainable development, also for so-called alternative energy sources, which can of course also create new jobs, in this case more than 50,000 jobs, as shown in one of the studies.
deaf and hard of hearing people have great difficulty communicating and integrating into the environment in which they live, study, work or spend their leisure time, which can lead to various forms of social exclusion.
‒ the european parliament resolution on the sustainability of urban mobility, which we also supported in the epp group, welcomes the european commission's report on urban mobility, as there has been a great deal of progress in this area in recent years.
innovation in sustainable transport, both for freight and passengers, is also improving, with emphasis on the importance of spatial planning and further active work on reducing emissions from transport.
highly developed, efficient, affordable, safe and accessible public transport is a very important component of sustainable urban development.
‒ i agreed with the report, though i consider more ambition is needed on urban mobility – as cities concentrate most of the population and generate most of the air pollution as well.
as a result, 96% of the energy needs of transport in the eu depend on oil and petroleum derivatives, corresponding to about one third of the total energy.
urban transport is the source of about 25% of carbon dioxide emissions and about 70% of all emissions in urban areas.
in the light of the impact of carbon dioxide emissions on climate change and the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, i agree that a different approach to transport policies in cities across the eu is urgently needed.
the report encourages authorities in the member states to develop sustainable urban mobility plans that prioritise low-emission modes of transport, including electric and alternative fuel vehicles.
as urban sustainable mobility plans are essential to achieving the eu's targets on carbon dioxide emissions, noise, air pollution and reducing road accidents, i voted in favour of the report in plenary.
‒ i supported the report on sustainable urban mobility because i believe there is still a lot of room for improvement in this area.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on sustainable urban mobility because i agree with the principle that mobility should be a right for all citizens.
it is very important to address topics such as urban mobility by making it more sustainable, safe and secure, giving space and infrastructure back to all citizens and improving accessibility, improving the environment, quality of life and health, saving energy and protecting the climate, making innovation the core of research policy aimed at smart mobility approaches, supporting innovations in the area of sustainable freight transport, minimising external costs and making better-quality investment, and integrating networks of efficient mobility systems and fostering cooperation.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on sustainable urban mobility (2014/2242 ((ini)) because i believe that long-term plans for sustainable urban mobility are an important means of providing adequate and safe mobility solutions for all citizens.
investing in sustainable public transport not only solves urban mobility problems, but also has other positive effects on reducing co2 emissions, noise, air pollution and road accidents.
however, it seems to me that we are still far from the european union, that the energy vulnerability of europe, which should be a unifying force, divides the european countries or member states.
do you think it would be better to build a community, an energy community, rather than a european union?
instead of the concept of the energy union, are we building the concept of the energy community?
on the energy union and on the transfer of electricity, which is the subject of these two reports, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, the commissioner and all those who have made great progress in paris on the environmental objectives.
in the context of these two reports, i would like to support in particular the area of providing additional funds for acer, the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
i have visited this agency, which is located in ljubljana, and i know what opportunities and benefits european consumers would have if they were provided with the right working conditions, because with good regulation alone we can reduce energy prices.
i support the part of the report that talks about more renewable energy in south-eastern europe, in the balkans, but also about countries getting their own energy mix, so that they can also avoid energy poverty, which means that people cannot pay for electricity because of low incomes, high energy prices or poor quality buildings.
although its economy is relatively small compared with that of other caribbean countries and is mainly based on farming, and despite its vulnerability to external shocks, saint lucia is seeking to create an environment favourable to investment and development of the private sector.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the united arab emirates on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that the agreement will further strengthen trust in bilateral relations and, inter alia, strengthen the partnership to combat terrorism, trafficking in human beings and climate change.
‒ the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries aims to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of the north-east atlantic fisheries resources, while ensuring sustainable, environmental and social benefits.
the objective of the regulation is to ensure the long-term conservation and optimum use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area and to provide sustainable environmental and social benefits.
the measures resulting from these amendments will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, leading to sustainable results that are environmentally and socially compatible.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the convention’s aim of ensuring the long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of the fishery resources of the north-east atlantic area, providing sustainable environmental and social benefits.
the measures provided by this amendment will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum utilisation of fishery resources in the north-east atlantic area, bringing lasting results from the environmental and social point of view.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1236/2010 of the european parliament and of the council on the control and enforcement system applicable in the convention area of the future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries (com(2015) 0121c8-0076/20152015/0063 ((cod)) as i believe that the measures will ensure better long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic area, leading to sustainable results that are compatible with environmental and social aspects.
‒ i supported the very comprehensive report on the transition to the european energy union that was proposed, and i also congratulate the rapporteur and the commissioner on the outstanding achievement in achieving the environmental objectives of the paris climate agreement negotiations.
i find the part of the report that talks about the increased use of renewable energy sources in south-east europe important, but also that the countries themselves have a duty to provide their own energy mix, thus helping to avoid energy poverty.
in practice, this means that people cannot afford electricity because of low incomes, high energy prices or poor quality buildings.
the task of the states is therefore to find the right balance between the different energy sources so that the final prices of electricity can still be sustainable for households and industrial customers.
the eu has also been working to reduce the cost of energy by introducing appropriate regulation at european level in the form of the acer agency, based in ljubljana, slovenia.
‒ a european energy policy ensures the functioning of the energy market and the security of energy supply.
it also promotes energy efficiency, energy saving, the development of renewable energy sources and the interconnection of energy networks.
the emergence of a strong energy union must be based on a sustainable, forward-looking energy system.
the european parliament has already called twice for binding climate and energy targets for 2030 in order to maximise energy efficiency.
as such, i can highlight the demand for a 40% increase in energy efficiency, a limitation of the increase in the average global temperature to no more than 2 °c and the recognition of the inadequacy of hydraulic fracturing.
however, it is also necessary to recognise the importance of nuclear energy, which is one of the most important in the european energy system, as it causes less co2 emissions.
the final report no longer contains any aspirations to promote nuclear energy, and some key amendments (the moratorium on hydraulic fracturing, the amendment on the link with ttip) were not adopted in plenary, which is why i abstained in the vote on the report on the european energy union.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european energy union.
i believe that it is essential to ensure the functioning of the energy market, the security of energy supply, the promotion of energy efficiency, energy saving and progress towards renewable energy sources, and to promote the interconnection of energy networks.
i welcome the call on the european commission and the member states to ensure that all legislative proposals forming the energy union are dealt with under the ordinary legislative procedure.
this will ensure a high level of security of energy supply for citizens and businesses.
‒ i supported the report on the european energy union, as european energy policy, in accordance with article 194 tfeu, ensures the functioning of the energy market and the security of energy supply and promotes energy efficiency, energy saving, the development of renewable energy sources and the interconnection of energy networks.
this is why we need to work towards an efficient energy union and achieve energy independence.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that a common energy market must be the cornerstone of the energy union and that the energy union must provide eu citizens with secure, sustainable and affordable energy.
there is also a need to make the best use of existing national and cross-border energy infrastructure in order to use energy effectively and strengthen security of supply.
in this very important and comprehensive document we also called on member states and the commission to seek for better interaction and coordination of national and european research programmes, especially in the fields of energy, transport, ict and construction, in order to ensure that priority is given to common challenges such as increasing energy efficiency by not focusing only on the heating sector but also on cooling, promoting small-scale renewable energies, reducing greenhouse gas emissions as well as increasing energy security and developing new renewable energy sources, and to maximise the market uptake of new technologies.
‒ i supported the report 'towards a european energy union', as energy malnutrition is one of the eu's most fatal weaknesses.
energy today divides the european political scene even more than it unites, as it is in this area that national egoisms are most pronounced.
the european union needs an ambitious and strong energy union.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy community and its implementation in the member states.
a low-carbon economy is essential for europe's future, because only so-called clean energy will free us from our dependence on russian gas and arab oil.
particular emphasis should be placed on diversification of energy sources and supply routes.
we need to focus on more accessible and secure energy supplies and better governance, where the european parliament also has a role to play.
a fully integrated internal energy market could save consumers between eur 12 billion and eur 40 billion per year (by 2030).
when the eu 'speaks with one voice' on energy and breaks its energy dependency, we will also be a more important global player in politics.
‒ i am convinced that the report proposed is an important step towards greater energy efficiency in the eu and also towards its less dependence on external sources.
in this context, i also welcome the role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer), which can play a major role in achieving savings in this area.
‒ renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix are crucial tools for a robust, secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive eu energy system.
electricity interconnection brings energy savings and an internal energy market that allows the free flow of energy.
and that's what we get for high-quality jobs and wealth in a sustainable economy.
in 2015, the commission also set out a strategy to achieve the 10% cross-border electricity connectivity target and improve the functioning of the eu's internal electricity market as part of the energy package.
i agree that the increase in cross-border energy will not be useful without strong interconnection of markets and transmission system operators.
since the report contains concrete and meaningful comments on the achievement of the 10% cross-border electricity connectivity target and since the preparation of the electricity grid has major environmental, economic and geopolitical benefits, i supported the report in plenary.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on achieving the 10% crossborder electricity connectivity target preparing the european electricity network by 2020. the existence of an internal energy market allowing the free flow of energy and the enhancement of energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix will contribute to a robust, secure, independent and transparent competitive eu energy system, which will create high-quality jobs and wealth in a sustainable, future-oriented economy.
‒ i supported the report on preparing the european electricity network for 2020 because i believe that only through connectivity can the european union become energy independent over time.
i acknowledge that renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and a sustainable energy mix leading to energy savings and an internal energy market that allows energy to flow freely are important means for a stable, secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive energy system for the eu, which generates high-quality jobs and wealth within a future-oriented sustainable economy.
‒ the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp) include restoring and maintaining populations of harvested species above levels that allow maximum sustainable yield.
this is attempted by using an ecosystem and selectivity approach.
i welcome the report and agree that the review of technical measures should seek to improve the environmental sustainability of fisheries and marine resources in a way that is consistent with the socioeconomic sustainability of the sector.
the new legislative framework would thus facilitate the continued use of innovative fishing gear that has been scientifically proven to increase selectivity and reduce environmental impact.
i believe that the sustainability of fish stocks is a necessary condition for the future of the fishing industry, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
the common fisheries policy was amended in 2013 with the aim of restoring and maintaining stocks of harvested species above levels that allow maximum sustainable yield.
i think that the review of technical measures should take into account their impact in terms of biological resources conservation, the marine environment, fishing operating costs and profitability in socio-occupational terms.
however, slovenian migrants working in the same environment as their austrian counterparts pay much higher taxes than austrians.
these measures will also improve human health and the environment.
these measures could also reduce their harmful effects on the environment, as invasive alien species cause major changes in the ecosystem.
by objecting, we will indirectly contribute to human and animal health, environmental and consumer interests, and also ensure the effective functioning of the internal market.
at the same time, we want better coordination in areas of strategic importance such as security and defence, the fight against terrorism, illegal migration, international crime, non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, global and regional security, secure energy supplies, global governance and regulation of finance and markets, climate change, as well as urbanisation, development and aid programmes and sustainable development, etc.
china is a major international power and thus makes a significant contribution to global security, the fight against terrorism, the global financial and market order and sustainable development.
2015 marks the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the eu and china, whereas the eu-china strategic partnership is of key importance to relations between the eu and the people’s republic of china (prc) and to finding mutual answers to a range of global concerns and identifying common interests, such as global and regional security, counter-terrorism, the fight against organised crime, cyber security, weapons of mass destruction and nuclear non-proliferation, energy security, global financial and market regulation, climate change and sustainable development, as well as in creating a framework to address bilateral concerns between the eu and china.
urbanization, rapid population growth, demographic change, more frequent and increasingly severe natural disasters, environmental degradation, climate change and resource scarcity are leaving behind poverty, inequality, migration, displacement and fragility.
investments in this sector are also moving to third countries in large numbers, mainly due to the relatively high energy prices and the cost of reducing emissions.
the report includes some positive measures, such as a proposal to adjust the co2 limit and a proposal to partly reallocate auction revenues to environmental initiatives and measures to combat climate change.
however, the report also calls for investment in co2 capture and storage and co2 capture and use and for the allocation of indirect carbon credits at eu level.
although i support the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, i do not agree with some of the proposals in the report and therefore abstained from voting on the report.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry.
i support the report which stresses the importance of base metals for a number of industrial sectors, in particular the automotive, aerospace, energy, construction and packaging industries.
‒ i supported the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry because i believe that the base metal industry is an important element in the economy and we must not allow ourselves to become dependent on others in this field.
industrial policy must comprise the tools and resources needed to make low-carbon transition a reality, and that can only be done through strategic management of base metals industries and by ensuring that the right tools and resources are available to cope with the increase in carbon prices being called for by all the international institutions involved in combating climate change.
in this resolution we addressed the topics that highlight the importance of base metals for the european industry; the overriding need to act on climate change and high energy prices; carbon border adjustment – a temporary and flexible measure of international dimension in line with the wt, compensation for indirect emissions, the support for investing in the production of low carbon metal, financial accounting and transparency, the issue of electricity supply contracts, the transfer of skills, the supply of raw materials and european trade protection measures in respect of base metals.
‒ i support the european parliament's legislative resolution on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry, as i believe that structural mechanisms need to be adopted to enable the european base metal industry to be competitive on the market and thus to preserve jobs and industrial know-how while respecting high environmental standards.
‒ i did not support the proposal for a european parliament decision on the establishment, powers, numerical strength and mandate of the committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the automotive sector (2015/3037 ((rso)) because i doubt the effectiveness of setting up special committees of inquiry.
‒ i voted in favour of the decision on setting up a committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector, its powers, numerical strength and term of office, because i agree it is necessary to investigate the alleged failure of the commission to comply with the obligation to keep under review the test cycles used to measure emissions and to adapt them, if they are no longer adequate or no longer reflect real world emissions and to investigate the alleged failure of the commission and the member states’ authorities to take proper and effective action to oversee the enforcement of, and to enforce, the explicit ban on defeat devices.
the report also concludes that the eu should use appropriate measures to address serious human rights violations in third countries, including through trade, energy or security relations.
we also must admit that this agreement ended the war but failed to create a functioning, self-sustainable state, and that the institutional set-up of the country is today overly complex and has proved to be ineffective.
‒ the global security environment around the eu has changed dramatically in recent times.
the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons poses a serious risk to peace, security, human rights and sustainable development.
in addition, this method is useful in the fight against climate change.
‒ i voted in favour because i agree that access to biological plant material encompassing plant traits is absolutely necessary for boosting innovation and the development of new varieties in order to guarantee global food security, tackle climate change and prevent monopolies within the breeding sector, while at the same time providing more opportunities for smes.
it is world-renowned for its unique habitats and rich biodiversity.
this, combined with mass poverty, a weak state, poor governance and uncertain conditions across the region, could have severe social and environmental consequences and further destabilise the situation.
i believe we need to preserve the park and uphold its integrity, therefore i supported the calls for increasing the commitment to funding sustainable conservation and economic development and diversification of the surrounding region.
we should at the same time support the drc government in developing sustainable energy and economic alternatives to extractive industries, in improving the mobilisation of domestic resources, especially through fair and progressive tax systems and in combating poaching, illegal logging, illegal mining and corruption, which are persistent factors that could cause irreversible damage to the park.