but the second one is maybe the biggest task that we have to address for the future, and that is the climate goals, where the council actually lowered the ambitions which were set high by this house.
it is not good for man or for the environment.
it is important not to rush into difficult issues, or allow things that could have negative effects on human health and the environment.
the alternative should be to help these countries build their own sustainable fishing industry.
mayotte should also be given the opportunity to develop its own sustainable fishing industry.
i voted against the report this with the intention of voting in favour of the original proposal by the committee on the environment.
the polluter pays principle is not included in the text and the change of the legal basis of the legislation from environment to internal market and the transfer of the precautionary principle in the text to a reason risk leakage of the precautionary principle in favour of competition issues and market access of gmo companies and further undermining the environmental perspective.
since even the commission proposal was not progressive enough in its defence of the environment and wildlife, and this was then further weakened by the committee, i chose to vote against.
to find an enemy when we have so many other things that we politicians have to deal with, namely how best to live in a pluralistic society, that holds together by not oppressing any of its parts, to build something positive, a society that works, prosperity, ecological sustainability, hope, joy and why not love.
it is a failure, as is the attempt by this resolution to push forward a common foreign and energy policy, which should be discussed in open debates and should be up to each member state to decide on rather than being put into resolutions about a country in crisis.
this is at a time when our security environment in the east and south has changed dramatically for the worse and thereby also increased the risk that the weapons will actually be used.
the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident.
it is also true that in sweden, for environmental reasons, trials are under way with even longer and heavier transport options.
the more we load these cars, the fewer cars, the less emissions.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
the original idea of the report was that eltifs should support socially and environmentally sustainable investments, but unfortunately that line has been lost in committee work and the trilogue.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
the report has been improved during the committee's consideration and i note positively that it calls for the eu to take action against social dumping and to implement social and environmental legislation at community level.
eu competition policy is a key tool for creating sustainable growth and fair conditions in the internal market.
the media and opinion leaders are helping to reinforce the anti-jewish climate, and many are not taken seriously when they express concern.
today, the fishing mortality rate for sea bass is four times higher than the level that could ensure maximum sustainable yield, msy.
we need to work on their combined enforcement in order to achieve sustainable results.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the un has stressed the need to reduce threats and to reduce political language in order to create an environment in which a political process can be launched to resolve the conflict.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the environment, the commission has proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of products containing harmful substances.
for us, it is clear that the plan will lead to sustainable fishing and a long-term good marine environment.
there are strong forces that are working against sustainable fishing.
i will start with the limit on the contribution that biofuels produced from certain crops can make to the objectives of the renewable energy directive.
half of the target for renewable energy in transport.
the commitment package seeks to foster the transition to advanced biofuels, which is very important for our future, as set out in the communication on an energy union.
in addition, the commitment package will improve the greenhouse gas performance of biofuels by raising the greenhouse gas savings threshold for new installations, which must operate at a savings of 60% compared to fossil fuels.
the commitment package also requires fuel suppliers and the commission to report estimated iluc emissions, indicators that are based on the best available scientific information, which will improve greenhouse gas reporting and increase transparency.
i am referring to the extension of the multiple accounting for advanced biofuels to the overall objectives of the renewable energy directive.
at the time, many said that the renewable energy targets were too low.
ethanol was then described as the way to heaven, and in sweden the environmental party/social democrats decided that every petrol station would have to have a special petrol pump with which to fill up with ethanol.
today, ethanol is described more as the road to hell, and in working on this report it is clear that the greens in particular, but also the socialist group, have done everything possible to water down the eu's renewable fuel targets.
biofuels are a necessary part, i would say, of a successful climate policy, particularly in all those countries, such as sweden, where we have great need for transport.
but one thing is certain, we need stable and long-term rules of the game for renewable fuels, and that is what would be at risk if this legislative report had gone wrong.
the regulation on the monitoring, reporting and verification of co2 emissions from maritime transport is consistent with the 2030 energy and climate policy framework.
shipping should not be the only economic sector not regulated in this area and should make its contribution to the fight against climate change.
the introduction of transparency, based on reliable and robust data, will help to mobilise the sector's exceptional remaining potential to reduce its emissions at very low or no cost.
i should stress that the european union's primary interest is to find global solutions to maritime emissions and that the european union will therefore continue to drive progress in the discussions within the international maritime organization.
in this regard, the monitoring, reporting and verification regulation sends an important political signal ahead of the next imo committee meeting to discuss global data collection in london in may next year and also ahead of the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015. the commission welcomes the text presented by the council, which reflects the agreement reached in the tripartite dialogues, and which strikes a delicate balance between collecting the most relevant data for the sector and imposing the least possible administrative burden.
on the one hand, the approach is kept rational by covering only co2 emissions, but on the other hand and in line with international discussions, the monitoring covers energy efficiency parameters which have incorporated important improvements agreed by the council and the european parliament.
increased transparency on energy efficiency in the sector should enable the adoption of emission mitigation measures by the sector and, in addition, this regulation ensures that, in the event of an agreement on a legal framework for a future measure applicable at global level, we can adapt our monitoring system.
finally, the proposed agreement - as i have already said - is a very important signal from the european union in preparation for the paris conference, indicating that we are committed to action to combat climate change and at the same time promoting further progress at international level in the case of maritime emissions, mainly within the international maritime organisation.
shipping is not only cost-effective, it is also, and above all, environmentally efficient, because despite accounting for such a large share of transport, it accounts for just under three per cent of global co2 emissions.
nevertheless, shipping must play its part in taking climate responsibility, and i am therefore pleased that we are now taking the first step in bringing shipping into eu climate policy.
the first is that we will focus on co2 and the proposal we are adopting today focuses on co2 which is the most important and most serious greenhouse gas in this context.
now sweden and other countries are pushing for the imo so that we can also bring the rest of the world with us, because all the ships in the world must take the same responsibility for the climate as european ships do after this decision.
the resolution reaffirms that forestry policy is a national competence and that forests have a great potential to contribute to new green jobs and innovations, in line with the eu's goal of smart and sustainable growth for all.
sustainable forestry and the use of forest resources offer the eu a source of new green jobs and a response to today's climate challenges.
in particular, we oppose the questioning of the climate neutrality of biomass and the notion that the use of forest raw materials would have negative effects on the environment.
we are now on the way to building an energy union.
what is needed is a new green investment policy focusing on renewable energy and a strong public welfare sector.
however, the starting point must always be that the obstacle is in the environment and not in man.
you said nothing about the reasons why they are leaving their countries and that we need to focus on things like climate change, poverty reduction, conflict resolution, etc.
it has been done to a large extent at the expense of environmental and natural interests.
we share major challenges: migration, human trafficking, terrorism and jihadism, energy and trade.
the only sustainable way forward in a democratic and modern society is to have a deep and thorough dialogue with the parties involved in a conflict.
blue-card question.– madam president (and thank you, mr buzek, for such an interesting speech), we have been looking from a swedish point of view at the energy security situation in poland.
one big part that you did not mention – which i would give you the chance to elaborate on – is the biomass industry, which is producing more than 52% of sweden’s energy.
we now have the opportunity to move from a society that is dependent on fossil fuels to a society that is based on renewable energy laws, and this is one of our biggest challenges.
the eu is the world's largest energy importer.
the eu imports 53% of its energy at a cost of over €400 billion a year.
we are already on track to meet the 2020 target of 20% of total energy to be renewable.
but if we're going to reach our 2030 target of 27 percent of our energy coming from renewables, we need to do something.
in order to progressively and effectively integrate renewable generation into a market that promotes competitive renewable energy sources and drives innovation, the networks of energy markets must also be adapted to renewable energy sources.
if we miss this part, we also miss one of the most important components in creating a better environment and also in strengthening our energy security.
this is an important and central area for guaranteeing independence and autonomy, not least in view of the fact that russia has increasingly chosen to exploit its energy resources for political purposes through both blackmail and threats.
for example, there is talk of new large-scale investments in fossil fuels, new gas pipelines and even extracting more oil where possible, no clear message about ending carbon dependence or the use of coal, although everyone knows that it is not sustainable.
the report also states that climate objectives and energy security objectives can be combined.
that's where renewables are today bringing down prices across europe in terms of energy, in terms of electricity.
it is wind power which is the cheapest to invest in today and the united kingdom should also invest more in it, and there is also a lot of planning from the energy authorities.
madam president, i think that it is important to state that this discussion has arisen very much from the fact that russia is using its energy resources for political and strategic purposes against member states of the european union, as well as others.
we need to diversify, we need to develop new energy sources, and we need to phase out those energy sources that have the highest levels of carbon dioxide emissions.
this is very compatible with the climate strategy of the european union, because when we reduce fossil fuels we are also reducing our dependence on russia and on other regimes that use their petrol resources in order to have a political impact.
we voted in favour of the saudargas report on european energy security.
there is also a difference between national policies, where we ourselves decide on our energy mix, and a european perspective, where it can be stated that nuclear power, for example, will be used for a long time to come.
we therefore wish to point out that our intention to refer to low-carbon technologies, a low-emission society, etc.
does not in any way represent a departure from our line on nuclear energy, which will continue to follow the result of the referendum in accordance with the decisions of the social democratic congress.
we are pursuing a development, both at swedish and european level, with energy efficiency and renewable energy sources in focus and where the highest environmental and safety requirements are to be set throughout the production chain and emissions are to be costly.
we consider turkey to be one of the eu's most important partners in a number of key areas, such as energy and trade, counter-terrorism and security, migration and refugee reception.
these are key criteria for the sustainability and future development of these sports events.
i express my admiration and solidarity with all syrian activists who continue their struggle in a conflict-torn environment and i call for the immediate release of all those who have been the victims of arbitrary detention.
the work environment must be upgraded.
we know that there is a huge need for investment across the eu, for example to strengthen infrastructure, develop renewable energy, improve the public sector and welfare.
we must be able to strengthen both labour law and the environment in sweden without risking being sued for it by disgruntled investors, and that is why we are strongly against isds.
it is important that the eu and the us together seize the opportunity to set the bar high for the defence of the fundamental values of democracy, environmental security, market economy and human rights, which are a matter of course for both our countries and should be the basis for global standards.
however, we do not believe that trade restrictions and various forms of financial support are sustainable solutions in the long term.
for the liberal group it has been a paramount concern that this directive should improve the ability for shareholders to exercise their rights in cross-border situations and not to add unnecessary red tape and bureaucracy, because let’s face it, european entrepreneurs and companies will not flourish because of the additional rules to comply with, but rather if we create a good business environment where they can focus on their core tasks.
we saw in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) – where all political confidence between the parties fell apart – how hard it can be.
we can see that we still have strong industries in europe, and these are mainly the ones which have already enacted the reforms that you need in order to lower emissions.
i must say that i too have often despaired of this emissions trading system that we have had in europe.
the transition of europe to a low-carbon and resource-efficient economy offers great opportunities for both society and the labour market.
many new jobs will be created in renewable energy production, waste and water management, air quality, biodiversity restoration and green infrastructure development.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
it results in overproduction and negative effects on the environment, climate and livestock.
‒ this report raised important questions about how we can move towards a more sustainable economy and job creation.
sustainable management of marine resources is of utmost importance, not least in the baltic sea, which is a sensitive inland sea.
we must continue to shoot seals to maintain the ecological balance of the baltic sea.
what should we say to the fishermen who are having their entire fish stocks eaten up because of the ecological imbalance that occurs when we have too much seal?
it is a waste of natural resources not to be able to use the catch from the conservation hunt, and it will have a negative impact on the fishing industry and the archipelago environment.
but i am also against the eu's common agricultural policy, which is very expensive and also contributes to environmental degradation and the deterioration of conditions for poor farmers in the global south.
‒ harnessing the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create sustainable jobs and growth is important and something the eu should focus on.
‒ harnessing the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create sustainable jobs and growth is important and something the eu should focus on.
it is not sustainable that only a handful of member states take in refugees.
a more equal distribution is a must to create a sustainable european asylum system and to help more people.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
each environmental law is the result of a great effort by civil society, organisations, politicians and citizens.
we see that most of the new cases of delayed transposition initiated by the commission were environmental related a total of 168 cases.
i think it is regrettable, it is dangerous for the environment and it is an insult to all the people who have put a lot of energy into improving environmental policy.
firstly, we criticise the fact that environmental legislation is all too often implemented too late.
one member raised the issue of the application of environmental law: the issue here is, indeed, partly one of late application but, unfortunately, in a larger number of cases it is about the wrong application of eu directives.
‒ on wednesday 9 september 2015, parliament voted on an own-initiative report on the implementation and review of the 2011 white paper on sustainable transport ahead of the mid-term review of the white paper and future initiatives in the field of transport.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy sector is not left behind.
‒ on wednesday 9 september 2015, parliament voted on an own-initiative report on the implementation and review of the 2011 white paper on sustainable transport ahead of the mid-term review of the white paper and future initiatives in the field of transport.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy sector is not left behind.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we have a lot of important energy union acts now.
but when it comes to more intangible things, for example, or energy, we have not succeeded at all.
this means that in some parts of the european union we have a surplus of energy which we cannot sell to our neighbours.
it's causing us to lose energy.
we are losing money, and we are losing the environment.
it allows us to create a greater energy security.
this creates a greater incentive in sweden to continue producing more green energy that we can sell to our friends in lithuania.
it will look very different in different parts of the european union in terms of the type of energy mix and we have to continue to be a national competence.
but also that the climate management system so important in the ets is working better.
i think the energy union is a very important step.
energy and security go hand in hand.
i regret that finland, by investing in russian nuclear power, and germany, by investing in russian gas, are undermining our common security by not supporting a development in which we invest in independent and renewable sources of energy.
the carbon credits are a system that has not worked for a very long time.
because if we continue to go down this path of not allowing systems to work, it will have a tremendous impact on the ability to reset the system and meet the climate goals.
‒ paragraph 82, amendment 45: our position regarding the ttip negotiations is that we reject any agreement which includes an investor-state dispute settlement provision that might enable investor-state claims to inhibit the capacity of the swedish government to pass legislation addressing perfectly legitimate public concerns, such as health and environmental protection, labour rights or human rights.
‒ amendment 45 to paragraph 82 – our position regarding the ttip negotiations is that we reject any agreement which includes an investor-state dispute settlement provision that might enable investor-state claims to inhibit the capacity of the swedish government to pass legislation addressing perfectly legitimate public concerns, such as health and environmental protection, labour rights or human rights.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
all this will create a more healthy competitive environment in the payments market.
it has long been known that russia has used gas energy to influence various countries and stop their possible turn towards the west and the eu.
as coordinator for gender equality in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i welcome this report and the papers now included on gender equality and human rights.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for including the amendments i have tabled with other members who also want to see a fair and equal climate agreement.
if we're going to fix the climate, we need sustainable and equitable development.
so that it is not like when we adopted the kyoto protocol once upon a time, which only covered the equivalent of 16 per cent of the world's emissions, without covering as much as possible.
many speak of climate change as if it were something that would happen in the future, but the fact is that it is already affecting people today.
i am particularly pleased with the paper on the need for binding energy efficiency and renewable energy.
‒ the resolution on vehicle test methods was prompted by the systematic cheating of emissions values by the volkswagen group.
i also voted in favour of requests that companies which have cheated be required to repay any subsidies and aid received on the basis of alleged environmental performance.
‒ i think it is good and important that parliament clearly signals against deliberate environmental fraud and against too poor testing methods for car emissions.
this is what many have pointed out as both climate reform and health reform.
every year - and many have pointed this out - hundreds of thousands of people die prematurely in the eu, and in sweden five thousand prematurely because of air pollution.
this is also climate reform many have mentioned it.
methane is actually one of the most dangerous greenhouse gases.
if we are serious about being a union that takes responsibility for climate policy, then we must also regulate methane in a sensible way.
they do not understand why, or accept that, we waste eur 114 million and 19 000 tons of co2 every year on commuting between brussels and strasbourg.
the eu budget must be modern and clearly focused on research, entrepreneurship and key future issues such as climate and the environment if we are to meet the challenges of tomorrow.
‒ the eu budget must be modern and clearly focused on research, entrepreneurship and key future issues such as climate and the environment if we are to meet the challenges of tomorrow.
agricultural policies result in overproduction and negative effects on the environment, climate and livestock.
the eu budget must be modern and clearly focused on research, entrepreneurship and key future issues such as climate and the environment if we are to meet the challenges of tomorrow.
the commission's proposal to allow individual member states to ban gmos was rejected by a largely unanimous environment committee for two main reasons.
i therefore voted in favour of the environment committee's line of rejecting the proposal, guided by the precautionary principle and the expectation of clear impact assessments from the commission.
i voted for the compromise that was voted through in the committee on the environment, as i want to see new legislation in place as soon as possible.
this proposal will reduce emissions by 70% of what is technically possible by 2030. this will result in better air quality, which will have positive effects on both human health and the environment.
‒ i voted for an ambitious air pollution policy and i am glad that this line was heard in the european parliament.
the strict limit values adopted by 2030 are estimated to be able to halve the number of premature deaths caused by air pollution each year, which currently stands at around 400 000 in the eu.
air pollution causes ten times more deaths than road accidents, and it is time for eu member states to do more to tackle the problem.
however, there are a number of other aspects related to drones, such as security, environmental protection and liability, and these also need to be addressed.
investments for the benefit of society are required not only in education, health and care but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
also i would like to say that a part of the truth has been hidden, as mrs le pen has admitted that her co-president, mr marcel de graaff, has voted for her in her place, but she has omitted and hidden from us the fact that the secretary-general of the front national, nicolas bay, has also been voting on her behalf on the legislation on emissions, the volkswagen case.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i think that the eu and the commissioner can make a tremendous difference here, and i really hope that she can come home and present that we are abolishing customs duties on environmentally friendly products, because that is what the environment, europe and trade need.
trade threatens human rights, workers and the environment, and free trade is at the expense of the population.
in addition, this agreement contains strong, binding texts on human rights, the environment and workers' rights.
here we have the clear proof that in the field of energy we have no single market at all.
if we are to cope with the climate, if we are to cope with jobs, if we are to cope with industry, if we are to cope with the economy and security, it is of the utmost importance that we have a common energy union which is also very, very market-based.
if we look at the example of the eu, the north pole, which concerns the nordic countries and the baltic countries, we can see, for example, if we look at estonia, how a common market has benefited the economy, both for private households and for industry, and how costs have been reduced through more efficient use of energy.
it is also based on getting more interconnectivity, which will enable us to ensure that the parts of the union where we have an energy surplus can compensate for the parts of the union where we have an energy deficit.
but we will not be able to cope with jobs, the economy or the climate unless we have a common energy union that is strong, clear and market-based.
i think you should be able to do that with even more confidence, because what has happened in the last few years in the energy market is that we have had a revolution.
the prices of renewable energy, wind and solar have fallen dramatically and this is changing the whole energy market.
in particular, if we implement what the commission wants to have a better interconnected energy system, where the whole of europe can transport energy from different places.
it is very welcome that we are now taking the step towards achieving an internal energy market while at the same time achieving a sustainable situation from both an environmental and a supply perspective.
one of the key areas is energy efficiency for heating and cooling.
the heating option that best complements energy efficiency efforts is district heating.
larger incinerators have better purification and are more efficient than those you can have at home, so there are already gains to be made, but there are also huge amounts of energy from waste heat from, for example, industrial processes that can be used.
this means less emissions, less imports and, moreover, an opportunity for industry to create an energy market that would otherwise have been wasted and thus a better competitive situation.
i therefore hope that the commission will see district heating and cooling as an opportunity to strengthen the approach already taken to energy efficiency in buildings.
what should be done is to prevent as quickly as possible more of this waste from entering european soil.
a change in the climate of conversation and an acknowledgement of the real threats we face are central to putting the necessary measures in place.
i also think it is a pity that we did not wait for the outcome of the paris climate summit before we started discussing these consequences.
i also think it is a pity that in this report we forget to look at how we can get a better picture of energy prices in europe through a better energy union and how we can increase competition by having better education and by having better innovation.
‒ for us moderates, it is self-evident that the eu member states have adequate legislation to guarantee a good working environment for all those who work.
all energy seems to be spent on protecting selfish interests and no effort is put into trying to solve the challenges we face.
they're leaving because of climate change, they're leaving because of poverty, because of conflict, because of war and oppression, for many different reasons.
i have to say, as the president has just said, that for the first time we have a global climate agreement on our hands, and that is something that must empower all of us who have been involved in working to find a solution to these difficult issues over the last ten to twenty years.
yes, some of the things are that we must speed up the work on creating a common energy market and speed up the work on the energy union.
we also need to put a price on coal and ensure that we have a functioning emissions trading system which is not yet working properly, and we need to concentrate even more on energy efficiency to be able to meet the climate targets.
these are issues that are raised in the energy union, but also in my report which i have presented here, which deals with the interconnection of the electricity grids in europe.
we can get cheaper electricity, cheaper electricity production, cheaper electricity to consumers and to businesses in europe, and we can also get more renewable energy and more investment with a common electricity market that works, and get more investment in renewable electricity where it is most efficient.
in spain, we can get more solar energy produced.
the different renewable energy laws also link and balance each other better.
we can therefore also more easily achieve the climate objectives we have now set ourselves.
if we can remove the energy islands that we still have in europe, for example in poland, in the united kingdom, in spain and on the iberian peninsula, then that will also contribute greatly to strengthening competitiveness and european industry.
this is because they are energy islands.
i would also like to thank my shadow rapporteurs and those who have worked on the energy union and also thank you for the discussion with commissioner cañete, because it has been a very interesting and important debate that we have had here today, and i want everyone to know that we have big tasks ahead of us.
we are talking about very serious, major climate change that is coming and that will change our planet.
we import the majority of our energy into the european union.
we have very high prices and low competitiveness in several countries because of too high energy prices.
on the one hand, the dramatic fall in renewable energy prices in recent years gives us a much greater opportunity to make meaningful large-scale investments in renewable energy and to bring more renewable energy into the energy mix.
the second thing is what happened this weekend, when we got a climate agreement that actually makes all the countries on the planet stand behind a work to reach the less than two degrees target.
we have great opportunities, also by investing in a common electricity market in europe, to regain more competitiveness, to bring in more renewable energy and, moreover, to bring cheaper energy to consumers.
firstly, this is an enlargement of the eu, and in some environmental cases that may be fine, but the eu's energy union aims to push electricity prices, create an internal market and transfer expertise from the member states to the eu.
i will never support initiatives that look only at the market without raising the need for energy efficiency and renewable energy.
‒ this report is an important position taken by the european parliament, which calls for energy diversification, completion of the internal energy market, improved energy efficiency and energy savings, increased use of renewable energy sources, more active use of european energy resources, better interconnections between member states and the renovation of infrastructure networks and buildings.
access to safe and environmentally friendly energy is one of the key issues for europe's future.
we need an energy system that promotes renewable energy and makes the eu less dependent on imports from uncertain partners.
the obligation is made when we have achieved the targets we have set for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
now it is up to us in this house, in national parliaments and among our colleagues around the world to take our responsibility, do our duty and honour the signal of the deal by reshaping our energy systems, investing in innovation and ensuring that we can keep well below the 1.5 degree target.
in a world where the greatest threat is the growing climate crisis, trade and economic issues must be more problematized than in this report.
the report criticises in particular taxes and laws which are designed to protect workers and the environment, which is not the right way to go.
we want to see an environmentally and socially sustainable base metal industry.
although the report stresses the importance of energy efficiency and recycling, it does not go far enough in terms of the environment.
‒ this report is less about the challenges of the base metals sector and more about the eu emissions trading system (eu ets).
we have voted against a number of proposals which we consider to pre-empt the process already under way of considering the reform of the eu emissions trading system (ets).
in our nordic climate, where minus degrees and snow are a common ingredient, we offer camping.
not least because we live in a completely new security policy environment with major changes in the world around us.
but the ideological underpinning of the agreement is neoliberal market economy, with no real regard for issues of social justice and sustainable development.