it is perhaps crucial that the negotiations allow for sustainability and permanence for the future, and by that i mean beyond 2004 and beyond agenda 2000.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission!
this narrowing is mainly to the detriment of qualitative criteria, in particular social, environmental and health-related criteria.
for example, a tender that requires wood products from sustainable forestry or food from organic farming or animal husbandry is illegal and discriminates against conventional suppliers.
this not only undermines the objectives of the treaty, such as the integration of environmental protection into all policy areas and a policy of sustainable development, but also limits the autonomy and democracy of cities and municipalities and of the regions and federal states.
even in a small community like mine, in a country where it is very expensive to build because of the climate, you are already over the thresholds with a simple school building.
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy is concerned about the implications of this for technical legislation, particularly in the area of on-board diagnostics and the various interfaces.
what i do not think is necessarily related to the further treatment of bse is the treatment of food waste.
i would like to emphasize that some of the points in the european parliament's report on the further treatment of bse have a negative impact on farmers in europe and that is why i voted against these unrealistic demands made by some parts of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the countries of the former soviet union are particularly interesting for world policy considerations because of their presumed and existing fossil fuels, energy reserves and their strategic position as oil and gas transit countries.
we must make sure that we advance energy security with synergy, energy, altener.
- mr president, the completion of the internal market in electricity and natural gas is a great opportunity for the economic, ecological and social development of the european union.
it has long been clear that the energy question is central to a whole range of issues, far beyond security of supply.
slowly but surely more and more people are realizing that the future lies in renewable energy sources.
we need a framework for these renewable sources of energy.
the most important points are cost-effectiveness in the overall energy supply.
this requires the internalisation of the external costs of insurance in the case of conventional nuclear and fossil fuel energy supplies and the consequential costs of polluting emissions.
we need fair transit tariffs for all energy sources, and in a free market we also need labelling of primary energy sources.
i would even go so far as to say that we should not restrict this labelling to the bills, but that it should also be mentioned in the price of the energy source by the energy suppliers.
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has added to this draft.
the need to focus more on renewable energy sources and the right of all suppliers to unhindered access to the grid are emphasised.
in this context, the electricity supplier is encouraged to explain the composition of the supplied energy mix to the final consumer in invoices and advertising material.
we want to ensure that the benefits are not offset by new taxes, but that we create a system which ensures a sustainable energy security from an ecological and economic point of view.
just as i will decide this afternoon whether to eat a schnitzel or a salad and thus determine the energy supply for my personal energy budget, so i would like to enjoy the free movement of goods in the future, to be able to choose between solar or hydroelectric power.
we want, for example, in particular, that the disposal of nuclear waste is not cross-subsidised from other sectors.
we also want basic services, universal service and the fulfilment of public and environmental obligations, but by means of public procurement, so that services are guaranteed with efficiency at their core.
we want to see renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy saving in the future.
- i have a very specific question: when will the treatment of waste water from the city of brussels comply with the legal provisions?
the rate of decline and loss of biodiversity in europe and worldwide is accelerating.
i am a little saddened that the rapporteur's report, which is otherwise very good, takes a very negative view of agriculture - at least that is how we see it - and makes no mention of the contribution of agriculture to the conservation of biodiversity.
it has been said this evening that the greatest biodiversity is found in the tropical regions of the developing world.
there's a wide range of crops, livestock, wildlife, etc., and -- and this is just as important to us -- very large parts of the local, indigenous population also depend on the existence of this biodiversity.
now, when biodiversity is reduced, when there's a lot of damage to nature, then it's a vicious circle.
we also know that if poverty is not addressed, it becomes very difficult to support and promote biodiversity awareness, sustainability concerns.
this means promoting the sustainable use of natural resources, especially forests, but also the increased use of environmental impact assessment in this area.
if i recall the discussions on the barcelona summit resolution, where it was clearly mentioned that projects in europe are violating and restricting biodiversity, then i think that it is not enough for us here in europe to always put forward great resolutions to protect mountain gorillas in african forests, but it is also necessary to implement projects and our own programmes - such as natura 2000 - very actively.
in the spirit of the principle of subsidiarity, i therefore support the maintenance of the proven national systems for the disposal and recycling of bio-waste.
the collection and recovery of biogenic waste for composting or use in a biogas plant is very welcome from an environmental point of view and must therefore be possible in the future.
the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the community's environmental protection.
i therefore support all compromise proposals which ensure the continuation of proven controlled bio-waste recycling systems.
i would like to begin by thanking the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the climate, because not only this report but also the subsequent ones - especially the legislative reports on financial services - require a high degree of cooperation and are seen as a motor for the european union in the search for a stronger european union.
the long overdue full opening of energy markets did not take place.
the delay in liberalising energy markets is an example of how far europe is still from being able to do this.
we therefore criticise the fact that elections in france and germany and monopolies such as edf have undermined the european objective of liberalising energy markets and the parliament's decision.
if the community is to take seriously the task of protecting the environment, it cannot and must not confine itself to adopting protection standards.
if simple sanctions are not enough, the great stick of criminal law must also be able to be used - of course only in important exceptional cases and with respect for the subsidiary distribution of tasks, both in environmental protection and, above all, in criminal law.
in this respect, almost all the groups in this house agree with the commission's present proposal and the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, for which we thank the rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten.
some of us fear that this proposal will open the door too wide to a uniform european environmental criminal law and, in the long run, possibly even to a european environmental agency with fbi violence.
if there is a real threat not only to the environment but also to people, it is from nuclear accidents.
i congratulate the rapporteur, mr florenz, on this milestone in environmental policy.
it does not have to cost the community anything, because of course the costs will be recovered from the consumers through the waste charges.
we welcome the very strong emphasis in lisbon on the importance of efficient venture capital markets for innovative, growth-intensive smes and thus for the creation of new and sustainable jobs.
i believe that synthetic alcohol should be used only in industry, pharmaceuticals, energy, etc.
we are not only calling for this in politics, but we are also calling for it in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, and one might ask what it has to do with this.
in a legal environment where we do not yet have full harmonization in, for example, contract law, but also in substantive european law for financial services, this directive cannot be taken any other way.
i must emphasize this again, because the ecosocial market economy includes free and liberalised markets that function, and it also includes responsibility towards entrepreneurs, workers and consumers, and sustainability as part of responsibility for the future.
i voted for the report because i believe that the future of tourism lies in the development of sustainable tourism which takes account of and promotes ecological aspects.
in austria, a country with a high tourist demand, the principle of sustainable development is of the utmost importance in the tourism sector.
i therefore expressly welcome the commission's initiative to draw up and implement an agenda 21 to promote the sustainable development of tourism activities in europe.
- (de) the future of tourism in europe lies in the development of sustainable tourism which takes account of and supports ecological aspects and environmental policy.
in austria, the principle of sustainable development in the tourism sector is already highly valued.
i therefore warmly welcome the commission's initiative to develop and implement agenda 21 to promote the sustainable development of tourism in europe.
it is to be hoped that this package of measures will be a step forward in the realisation of a european tourism which preserves the environment and natural resources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we are putting more emphasis on the economic, social and environmental issues of security and security risk.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products.
- the common position of the council on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles (com (91) 0173 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0319/2001 - c5-0320/2001 - c5-0220/2001 - c5-0220/2001 - c5-0220/2001 - c5-0220/2001 - c5-0220/2001 - c5-0202/2001 - c5-0202/2001 - c5-0202/2001 - c5-0202/2001 - c5-0202/2001 - c5-02202200/2001 - c5-0202202/2001 - c5-02202202/2001 - c5-0202202200/2001 - c5-02202202200/2001 - c5-0220210/2001 - c40/2001 - c402-02-02102109-0210/2001 - c2109-02109-02109-02109-02 - a5-0142/2002 by mr lannoye, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions entitled 'towards a global partnership for sustainable development' (com (2002) 82 - c5-0173/2002 - 2002/2074 (cos)).
the more clearly and intensively we use this, i would even say the more radically we decide to influence european environmental legislation here, the more credible we will be in johannesburg and, of course, at future conferences.
i would like to point out from my own experience of almost three years that even in this house there are not always majorities for sustainable development and for a sustainable solution.
the three elements of sustainable development have been mentioned many times before: economic, social and environmental development.
growth in gross domestic product has nothing to do with sustainability.
we therefore call on the commission to make a strong effort in johannesburg to ensure that new social and environmental indicators are introduced in future when it comes to the accounts of the member states.
we cannot talk about a global partnership for sustainable development without drawing attention to the link between poverty and environmental degradation.
this means increased pressure on natural resources, this means increased pressure on the environment.
when we talk about the challenge of the century of sustainable development, it has something to do with changing our own production conditions, not with charity.
i also see the problem that we are taking tax revenue from developed countries, which will also need it in the future for their sustainable development.
i too must say to mrs gonzález álvarez that the word 'democracy' was most often used in the most cruel communist dictatorships, and that the worst environmental disasters have occurred in communist states - think of chernobyl - in those states where people understand nothing about economics or ecology.
because environmental protection is not possible without a strong economy.
the 1996 world food summit identified four priorities: food security, international agricultural trade, sustainable management of natural resources and rural development.
the eu must continue to pay particular attention to poverty reduction and sustainable development.
democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, sound economic policies, gender equality and environmental considerations must be at the forefront of development.
it is also important to emphasise the multifunctionality of agriculture, which can create jobs and has many other positive effects on the whole rural area, the environment, the economy and the preservation of the cultural landscape.
in many parts of europe, the aim is to strengthen agriculture and to bring it into sustainable development, without, of course, neglecting the competitiveness of agriculture.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the committee on the environment has produced what i think is a very, very good opinion on mr bradbourn's report.
unfortunately, the ladies and gentlemen in the committee on transport are not as environmentally conscious as the environment committee, but they do understand a little less about things that they are less concerned about!
the environment committee has achieved a great success, because the transport committee now accepts that the results of the strategic environmental impact assessments are taken into account in the concrete implementation procedures.
air transport is a major contributor to air pollution.
we wanted to discuss all this in depth, but there was no will to take the opinion of the environment committee so seriously.
but you see, good things take time, and there will certainly be another opportunity for the environment committee to speak on the transport sector.
we have to admit one thing: before each summit, we have to admit that the situation of sustainable development has deteriorated compared to the previous summit.
we are in danger of seeing the population, which is our key partner in all environmental decisions and initiatives, begin to resign.
the credibility of the european union in johannesburg depends on the services we provide here, on our environmental demands and, last but not least, on our voting behaviour throughout the year.
i believe that the decisive factor is not so much what happens at the so-called environmental summits as what we achieve in our practical work between the summits and how we communicate this to our citizens.
these include in particular the environment and sustainable development, technological research for the future, reference materials and measurements, but also public security and the fight against fraud.
mr president, i would like to ask for an amendment, and that amendment should read: 'and sustainable combustion'.
deficits remain in the environmental field, in preparing for the eu's regional and agricultural policies.
i would like to see this framework directive, and i think the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy would like to see it, as a single page.
- (de) as long as nuclear power stations are in operation in europe, the main priority must be to protect the health of the european citizen and his environment.
the promotion of biofuels is certainly an essential part of europe's future environmentally friendly and sustainable energy supply.
the amendments from the committee on the environment and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which include the possibility of a total exemption, make the two proposals compatible.
the debate on biofuels has focused on one important point, namely environmental compatibility.
the commission has been asked to assess the entire ecological life cycle of biofuels.
a second reason is that biofuels are carbon neutral and therefore make a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and to achieving the kyoto targets.
thirdly, they are an improvement towards an independent european energy supply, which we have taken upon ourselves, because at present we are not only disproportionately dependent on oil imports, but according to calculations this dependence will increase to 85% by the year 2020. fourthly, biofuels are an indigenous energy resource of the eu, as are other renewable energy sources and coal.
the reason biofuel sounds so good to our ears is that it appeals to our environmental conscience.
but to tout biofuels as a measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is a bit of an exaggeration.
even if the same potential, the same financial resources, were used in thermal insulation, for example, as are used in this sector, the energy demand could be reduced by three times.
so from a purely ecological point of view, you can at least argue about the meaningfulness.
if we continue in this way, we will not only be depriving ourselves of our work, but we will also be depriving ourselves of what might be useful in the use of nuclear energy.
ex ante restrictions should be allowed for member states in general for environmental and safety reasons and it is essential to take account of geographical specificities.
on the other hand, the transit country austria should not be required to relax the prohibitions on heavy goods vehicles on weekends and public holidays; the increasing volume of traffic is already causing enormous problems for our environment and for the health of the austrian population.
finally, i would like to stress that the production of renewable raw materials safeguards existing and new jobs in rural areas, also in view of enlargement.
i welcome - and this is also the conclusion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection - the future scope proposed by the commission for the labelling of equivalent products, i.e.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection also calls for the labelling of animal products and enzymes to be extended to the widest possible choice for consumers.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has just had a discussion on this and said: 'we are going to send back what the commission has submitted to us and we want only a 'genetically-free' label.
it should be made clear that this threshold applies precisely to this technically unavoidable pollution.
i think it is unacceptable - and i agree with the majority of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection - that these thresholds should also apply to gmos which are not authorised in the community.
the commission proposal provides that the european food safety authority will in future carry out the environmental impact assessment.
in addition, several of my motions concern the strengthening of the public's right to information, and i hope that the vast majority of the house - like the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection - will also support this right of the public.
the debate on the use of genetically modified food is now at the same level as the debate on nuclear energy 25 years ago.
we are once again on the eve of a world food summit and a world summit on sustainable development.
water, renewable energy, health and agriculture must be the priority of a new partnership to fight world hunger.
since 1994, only austria, germany, belgium, the netherlands and denmark have reached the current quotas, but the netherlands and denmark have achieved them only because - and this must be borne in mind - they have a fully developed and very cost-effective waste incineration system, and belgium and germany because they also use recycling methods which are not desirable for ecological reasons and which are no longer recognised following a change in the definition provided for in the proposal for a directive.
we have said it many times: we will support this proposal, but i think there is a very specific area where improvements are needed: the commission proposes that the following minimum targets for the physical recovery of materials contained in packaging waste should also be achieved: 60% by weight for glass, 65% by weight for paper, etc.
we have always made environmental policy with the economy and not against the economy.
the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i think that a really serious debate should be opened here at european level, because we know that biofuels are environmentally friendly and can be produced without any prior energy.
the eu must promote vegetable protein production as quickly as possible, while respecting the financial framework, in order to ensure that farmers and european agriculture have their own protein supply, to enable energy production and thus to become more independent of fossil fuels.
we all know that europe imports about 60% of its energy.
in addition to the countless deplorable victims, there are so many individuals and families who are facing nothing, small and large businesses, farmers, the environment, agriculture, public institutions, historic buildings, art treasures - we must now work together to help quickly and swiftly, including the candidate countries, without any ifs and buts.
climate change has become a brutal reality.
man-made climate change is here.
so we can no longer tell ourselves that this is a once-in-a-millennium event, an unfortunate confluence of circumstances, but we are quite sure that this is the climate catastrophe, this is climate change.
it can strike everyone else in europe and the world at any time, which means that even in the acute situation where we are repairing the damage, prevention and climate protection must be the priority.
we think of terrorism, we think of international organized crime, we think of migration, we think of environmental issues and many other problems.
i would like to know whether these contracts will be concluded at the level of the international atomic energy agency.
a strategy for this region must aim to enable sustainable policies and to gradually reduce dependence on eu financial assistance, in particular through efficient charging of all public services.
in this sense, the report on the agency for reconstruction should contribute to sustainable crisis management.
he is right, it would have been good to have had an opinion from the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, but we, the members of the european people's party in the committee on the environment, of course represent the interests of the environment, the interests of consumers, but of course we also represent the interests of the economy.
we know that we are not helping the consumer if we only protect the environment and ruin the economy.
i know and i am pleased that the danish presidency's aim is to have a common position at the eu council of environment ministers on 17 october, after the completion of the first reading in the european parliament's plenary session, scheduled for the end of september.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy is naturally interested in international developments and in particular in the possibility of participating in the wto.
thirdly, energy: we want to ensure that the intelligent energy programmes, but also the altener, save and synergie programmes, are used intensively and that the commission gives priority here, in total, to our energy self-sufficiency, which is to increase from 50 to 70%.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
the commission's proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of community financial aid to improve the environmental performance of freight transport has many positive aspects.
the world public is getting tired of hearing reports of poor environmental summits.
the actions that followed were so disappointing that the global environmental movement almost went silent.
the european union has for the first time put forward a concrete path forward, a clear strategy in the form of the expansion of renewable energy sources.
but the eu now has the chance to prove, to demonstrate, to show within the eu that the transition to renewable energy is a winner-take-all system, that we are not only mitigating the climate catastrophe, that we are creating five times as many jobs as with traditional energy use, that we are conserving resources worldwide, that we are using renewable energy to develop technologies that we can export.
we must now actively demonstrate and work hard to ensure that we are actually achieving the targets set out in the white paper on renewable energy.
one also has to ask oneself in general whether it makes sense to hold such un summits at short intervals and then have little negotiating power at a sustainability summit.
i believe that in the context of sustainable development, issues such as family planning and reproductive health are essential.
the directive deals with the exhaust gas and noise emissions of petrol and diesel engines for pleasure boats.
as you know, we in parliament - and particularly the committee on industry, trade, research and energy - attach the greatest importance to the principle of mutual recognition, and i believe that this directive will make it possible to register boats.
it is precisely in this context that it is necessary to draw attention to the environmental and noise problems, including the problem of exhaust gases, in the training of boatmasters in the area of boatmasters' licences.
we should also be watching how this directive develops in the future, because it is in the interest of all of us - and we will all agree in this house - to have as good, strict and sustainable environmental legislation as possible.
at the same time, i say that it would be helpful for the climate of negotiations and decisions if the czech government had the courage to make a clarification which would involve a reassessment of the beneš decrees from today's point of view, but not as a demand, as a condition, but as an offer.
it has been 12 years since the rio summit recognized the need to reduce global greenhouse gases.
it also shows how infinitely slow global processes of change in environmental behavior are.
the most important step is, as is generally accepted, the radical reduction of all greenhouse gases.
in the last few weeks we have been pleased to learn that, for example, the ban on hydrofluorocarbons has led to the ozone hole over antarctica shrinking for the first time in several years.
emissions trading itself does not reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but only divides them differently.
we must therefore, above all, develop renewable energy sources and pursue the energy efficiency objectives we have set ourselves here.
i have tried to give this creature a more human face and have tabled a number of amendments which have been partially accepted by the committee on the environment.
- (de) at the johannesburg summit, the eu proposed to increase the production of alternative energy by 15% by 2010. increasing the productivity of renewable energy is the only long-term alternative to traditional fuels.
the increased use of biofuels opens up new production opportunities for the agricultural sector and also reduces negative impacts on the environment.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy is very proud that it has succeeded in doing so, at least in this reading.
secondly, i should like to thank mr färm very warmly, also on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, for his understanding of small and mediumsized enterprises, particularly in the border areas.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy unanimously adopted the sixth framework research programme.
i wonder if it is actually intended to apply the standards of the international atomic energy agency to ensure safety here?
i therefore support and welcome the fact that food security and the creation of a strategy for sustainable rural development are one of the six explicit priorities of the eu's development cooperation strategy.
we should support and continue the sustainable management approach with non-trade related considerations.
the improvement of energy, transport, water, health and education infrastructure is an important prerequisite.
in order to support the development of appropriate capacities in developing countries, the european community should increase its technical assistance to farmers and provide technical know-how, for example, in the field of renewable energy and many other fields.
it takes account of important policy documents such as the white paper on renewable energy sources, the internal energy market directive and the directive on the promotion of electricity from renewable energy sources.
the amendments calling for fair access to the grid for producers of electricity from renewable sources are particularly welcome.
we also expect the commission to internalise the external costs of fossil and nuclear energy production in the long term.
in general, the future problems of security of supply and the expected cost increases in the primary energy sector are probably still being vastly underestimated by all of us at the moment.
another important question will be - and this probably has less to do with concrete negotiations at the time of this conference, which is not to take place anyway, but more to do with strategic thinking and strategic listing - how we can convince many of the developing countries in the future to join the fight against climate change.
this will of course also depend on our own credibility in the field of climate change.
but, commissioner - and this is probably going to be difficult for you - it will of course depend not only on environmental policy but also on our coherent policy in other areas such as the european agricultural policy whether or not we achieve this credibility with our partners in the developing countries.
this means ensuring that countries provide reliable figures on their emissions and on the flexible mechanisms.
we have just been working with an overwhelming majority in the committee on the environment on this issue, as she said, because we have the impression that the right of co-determination will be curtailed, whatever the legal situation here - we all know that, i think, mrs sommer.
the limit values, the threshold values for technically unavoidable, unintentional pollution are regulated.
whether you are more pro-nuclear energy like you or more anti-nuclear energy like me, in both cases the projects you have presented today are very, very important and a decisive step, and i would like to congratulate you on that.
i have two questions: firstly, madam vice-president, are you prepared to make the information policy in connection with nuclear energy in such a way that other countries are also required to have full information and transparency on accidents and safety measures?
i think that, even if we are today recalling the objectives of the internal market and want to do everything to achieve them once and for all, we should also remember that we must ensure a high level of consumer and environmental protection.
but also in a positive way, let's think about energy.
they have made a number of proposals on energy policy, most recently on energy security for nuclear installations.
i think it is time to see a coherent energy policy strategy in conjunction with foreign policy.
third, towards a sustainable and inclusive economy.
we were able to agree to all the proposals and points which support the decommissioning of non-renewable nuclear installations and the highest possible level of nuclear safety.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
russia will be europe's most important energy supplier in the coming decades.
i do not need to waste any more time; i have already expressed my indignation at the fact that reference is being made to that weakling 202 again and again.
this economic area should be capable of generating sustainable economic growth, more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
fifth, it would be so simple if we could agree on the principles that the economy creates jobs and everything that creates jobs is social, that social cohesion and environmental protection support each other in terms of sustainability.
i am glad that my amendments have all been accepted by the committee on the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
fourth and last point: intelligent energy.
i believe that we have taken the right step here too towards energy supply, security and efficiency, especially with regard to small and mediumsized enterprises.
i think that the commission should pay very close attention to the fact that the sustainability proof is provided over the next three years, so that we see that these bans are actually providing a better, more sustainable, more ecological performance.
i would also like to thank the commissioner very warmly, because this is an important step forward in the field of waste and because it offers completely new opportunities for small and mediumsized enterprises.