this unanimous vote is important, since the committee on economic and monetary affairs has indeed recognised that public procurement procedures are instruments of the sustainable development strategy and that the environment must be integrated in a transversal way into all union policies, as the treaty calls for.
in this context, the competent authorities, which are politically responsible, must be allowed to establish the environmental and social criteria which they intend to use in the award of public contracts, while respecting, of course, the principle of non-discrimination.
the introduction of social and environmental criteria also requires caution.
the technological developments, but also the stricter environmental and safety requirements, are in our view sufficient arguments to demand that on the one hand this training must be improved and on the other that it must also be continued through regular training.
and we know that there are many problems: overcapacity of the fleet, over-exploitation of resources, declining employment, a vastly degraded marine environment.
the presidency and the council are well aware that a certain climate of concern has arisen in many countries that the protection of human rights could be substantially undermined in the interests of strengthening security and combating terrorist organisations.
there's toxic waste.
with regard to the gas directive, it should be emphasized that it is of the utmost importance to ensure that all european energy producers have efficient, non-discriminatory access to the natural gas production markets.
the extension of the principles of the internal energy market to the countries which possess raw materials is beneficial to the development of the producing countries and also meets the objectives of the internal market.
the gradual approximation of the rules is fundamental to the completion of the internal energy market.
there should be a common minimum framework of standards that empowers and imposes responsibilities on regulators of energy markets.
i agree with that principle in any case and i think that the rapporteurs, both those of the committee on transport and those of the committee on the environment - and i am a member of both committees, so i do not feel the schizophrenia that some colleagues here do, i feel happy on both sides - have done a good job.
this regulation is replaced by a directive based on a so-called balanced approach to noise management, but which, in very practical terms, limits the scope for action of the member states in the fight against noise pollution and extends the life of 'hushkit' aircraft.
the amendments proposed by the committee on transport and approved by the committee on the environment are undoubtedly improvements to the original text.
6. the it also means that we demand and will remain vigilant so that the right to energy for all and the protection of public services to citizens are guaranteed.
- domestic and industrial pollution has become the main source of degradation of our european waterways, of which only 40% meet the quality objectives set for different uses.
in response to this damaging situation, the council and parliament adopted the so-called 'urban waste water treatment' directive in 1991. like the majority of my colleagues in the committee on the environment, i regret that eleven years after its adoption and four years after the deadline for agglomerations of more than 10 000 population equivalents to be equipped with urban waste water collection and treatment systems, many member states still do not comply with the legally binding timetable of this directive.
i also regret that the committee on the environment did not adopt one of the amendments i tabled, a common sense amendment which explained why so many member states have still not implemented this directive.
in 1991, these did not yet have urban waste water treatment plants and had to comply with other common european standards in the fields of public procurement and environmental impact studies.
it is clear that the drafting of the directive on urban waste water treatment failed to take account of this essential rule.
i think the summit has also taken a number of important decisions, and one of them is undoubtedly the energy tax.
second point: i think that a greater involvement and cooperation of the clubs and the supporters' associations is important to improve the climate, to improve the quality.
the international football competition consumes a great deal of energy and resources from the police services involved, which risks undermining other tasks.
these two initiatives are a concrete response to one of the major concerns of the population: 88% of european citizens want the union to take concrete measures to protect the environment.
in the face of acts of environmental crime, the liberal group supports the position advocated by mrs oomen-ruijten, namely that the community framework of the first pillar is the most appropriate.
a directive seems to us the most appropriate instrument for drawing up a european list of environmental crimes and providing a common basis for criminal sanctions.
on the more specific content of this proposal, i agree with the majority of my colleagues that incitement, as well as the act itself of violating european environmental legislation, must be punished.
similarly, it is better to refer to breaches of the law in general terms, in order to avoid environmental offenders falling into a possible legal loophole.
that said, and beyond the dispute over the legal basis between parliament and the commission on the one hand and the council on the other, it seems to me essential to act quickly, to reassure our citizens by taking repressive measures against these modern-day polluters, because today, and particularly i would say in the field of the environment, it is the non-application of the law that kills the law and benefits unscrupulous individuals.
at the same time, it is important to note that in these same countries, environmental criminal cases represent only 2% of the total number of cases.
the community must therefore use the deterrent at community level to enforce existing regulations and to tackle effectively the organized networks which have made pollution their new weapon of choice.
finally, a word on the situation in kosovo: the energy sector is the most important item in which we invest and there is a paradox in this sector.
incredible amounts of money are invested in energy supply, yet power cuts occur almost daily.
this is a paradox for the people and in my report i ask that more efforts be made to make it clear to the people of kosovo that more energy savings will have to be made, that energy will also have to be paid for, so that we can achieve a more sustainable policy.
recently, on 27 march 2002, the united nations environment programme published the results of a study of six sites in serbia and montenegro that were affected by depleted uranium munitions during the 1999 balkan war.
the results of the measurements show that depleted uranium dust was widely dispersed in the environment as a result of the impact of these munitions.
even if the level of radioactive pollution is considered low by the united nations environment programme, the fact remains that this pollution confirms the risks that the use of weapons and ammunition with depleted uranium poses to the military, of course, but also to the civilian population, probably for several generations.
we have received information that in the coming weeks the unep is to begin a study on the impact of the war on the environment.
i also support his important additions to the directive, such as the obligation to collect all electronic waste, the higher mandatory collection target of 6 kg which, as the rapporteur has said, is very realistic, and thirdly the very important compromise that we have found here with the various groups at first reading and that we must continue to support: the individual producer responsibility.
without going into these three points in detail, i think we can reduce the amount of new waste, which is the best prevention we can have, make it more environmentally friendly and make it easier to recycle.
waste prevention also means that products should be reused for as long as possible.
– mr president, i wish to begin by thanking mr florenz for the work carried out in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and for the cooperation with the commission.
let me briefly recall why we are tackling the specific problem of electrical and electronic waste.
it is the fastest-growing part of the waste stream, indeed it is growing three times faster than the average.
each of us produces on average about 14 kgs per year of this waste and by the year 2010, when this directive is fully operational, electrical and electronic waste will account for over 8% of the entire municipal waste stream.
once adopted and implemented the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment will allow us to divert this type of waste from landfills and incinerators to environmentally sound re-use and recycling.
the directive on restricting hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment will prevent the presence of unnecessary hazardous substances, posing risks for human health and the environment in various stages of the life-cycle of such equipment, including its waste management.
in particular i support the strengthening of individual financing, as proposed by the committee on the environment, and limiting collective systems to those cases where these are necessary for practical reasons.
this can help to internalise waste management costs into the product price and give incentives for a better design for re-use and recycling.
it is a first step towards fuller integration of environmental considerations into product design and consumption patterns.
we also need to find appropriate solutions for the financing of historical waste put on the market before the entry into force of this directive.
for the overall target of 4 kg per capita collected waste, we estimate that the costs will be in the region of eur 500 to 900 million.
the committee on the environment has voted in favour of deleting a temporary exemption for smes from the financing obligations of the directive.
on the waste electrical and electronic equipment proposal, the commission can accept 32 amendments in full, two in part and 20 in principle.
may i remind you that this is exactly the reasoning followed by parliament at first reading and by our committee on the environment when it voted on 21 march - at any rate for decabromodiphenyl ether.
let me explain: in asking for a ban on this substance, postponed until 1 january 2006 at the latest and subject here to the final results of the risk analysis, parliament is taking into account the latest available scientific information provided by the united kingdom, which is the rapporteur state for the environmental part of the risk assessment.
the european parliament is also responding to the wishes of the council and the commission, namely compliance with the rules laid down in the 1993 regulation on the evaluation and control of existing substances, the existence of substitutes and the difficult balance to be struck between the obvious fire safety qualities on the one hand and the proven environmental and health hazards on the other.
that is why the committee on the environment did not want to apply the precautionary principle strictly, as i said, but gradually.
the results currently reported by the french authorities remain up to date, intermediate results which demonstrate the harmfulness of octabde to health and the environment.
the commission is developing programmes and increasing the number of initiatives to ensure an ever higher level of protection of human health and the environment.
that is why i think it is right not to wait for the end of an endless story of risk analysis and to favour a balanced solution, the main thing being to reconcile the immediate safety of citizens in the face of fire risks with the longer-term benefits for public health and the environment.
the european union has a great interest in tackling this growing problem, especially in the current climate in europe, where the far right is on the rise.
in short, closer cooperation between all the parties involved to make tourism more competitive and sustainable seems to be a priority.
i want to see this in the many specific contributions it contains: human and social research, the principles of integrating the environment, sustainable development, new mobility, equal opportunities, the role of universities, education and openness to the world.
but we should also - as the commissioner knows - make progress on environmental taxation and capital gains taxation, all of which are still being debated.
the multiannual konver initiative, from 1994 to 1999, financed measures such as the acquisition by staff of new civilian skills, the diversification of the economic structure of the enterprise, aid for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the reallocation of military sites to new sectors of civilian activity and the rehabilitation of the environment.
i want to see this in the many specific contributions it contains on human and societal research, the principles of integrating the environment, sustainable development, new mobility, equal opportunities, the place of universities, higher education and openness to the world.
- in rio in 1992, the concept of sustainable development was enshrined by the international community.
in the last ten years, there has undoubtedly been a change in the discourse on the environment and development, a positive change.
solemn commitments have been made, conventions have been signed - if not ratified, at least signed - but it must be said that ten years later the situation of the environment has not improved, it has even deteriorated, and as far as the situation of the poor and developing countries is concerned, it has not improved either.
we cannot be satisfied with an ecological mass, which would repeat a second time what was said in rio.
what we are proposing is that the fight against poverty and hunger and the equitable and sustainable use of natural resources should be given the highest priority.
this clearly means that sustainable development must be the dominant concept.
so trade regulations, international trade rules, investment rules must be subject to the criteria of sustainable development and not the other way around.
this means the development of new technologies, and i am thinking in particular of renewable energy sources.
i think, for example, that as far as we are concerned, certain policies of the european union - i am thinking in particular of the common agricultural policy, the fisheries policy and the trade policy - must be reviewed to avoid undermining the objectives of sustainable development.
i hope that our contribution will help the european institutions to play a leading role in this preparatory meeting, if there is still time, and in any case i hope that we will avoid the pretense that entrusting the management of sustainable development problems to partnership initiatives with the private sector is the solution to the problem.
it was in 1991 that the council of environment ministers adopted a directive which will be debated this evening on the placing of plant protection products on the market.
the aim of the directive was to define a common procedure for the evaluation of active substances for existing and new pesticides and to establish a positive list of substances authorized as being acceptable from the point of view of health and the environment.
the commission is proposing today to extend the deadlines and, for reasons of realism, the committee on the environment, for which i am the spokesman tonight, must agree to an extension.
i would like to mention a few: adoption of clear priorities for the new work schedule, priority for substances that are problematic for environmental health and drinking water, refusal to grant a bonus for laxity - in other words, companies that have not submitted their dossier within the deadline will not be able to have it dealt with, unless the requirements of the directive appear to be easily met.
the commission should also, as the committee on the environment would like, submit a proposal for a revision of the 1991 directive before the end of 2003. why this proposal for revision ?
the committee on the environment also supports the introduction of the concept of comparative evaluation and the principle of substitution, which will lead to the emergence on the market and the use of the least toxic substances, the more toxic ones being eliminated.
i would add that new criteria - in ten years things have changed, and even more so in twelve years - must be taken into account, such as the absence of endocrine disrupting substances - in 1991 there was no mention of endocrine disrupting substances; since then, it has become an important topic in environmental policy - or the specific impact on the health of children and foetuses, as well as the synergy issues related to exposure to several pesticides.
in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to support the report of the committee on the environment, drawing your attention to a particular point, which is paragraph 14 of the resolution.
i think the environment committee is right to support this proposal which not only aims to bring the 1991 directive to an end but also to reduce the use of pesticides, which is certainly a very good way of reducing the risks.
we must conclude that we have no guarantee that substances on the positive list are really safe for man and the environment.
we also need special taxes on external environmental costs associated with products and product prices.
they're reports from various countries: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
the risk is that a concept which we do not want, namely the privatisation of sustainable development, will be imposed in johannesburg.
the first would be to propose, and this was mentioned by the president-in-office of the council, that we change our european policies which prevent developing countries and the poorest countries from progressing towards sustainable development or from meeting their basic needs.
the second proposal would be to promote a binding legal framework for transnational companies, which would encourage them to assume their environmental, social and economic responsibilities.
- mr president, the preparatory meeting in bali certainly does not bode well for the un summit on sustainable development this summer in johannesburg.
ten years ago, in rio, for the first time, environment and development were linked.
the need for sustainable development was also recognised by all countries.
but global warming and the future of our planet are too serious problems to be left to the goodwill of industry.
that when a serious risk to human health, animal health or the environment is identified, the commission must or can take a number of measures without delay.
finally, recent evidence was noted regarding possible adverse environmental effects.
the aim of my amendment is to allow member states to introduce driving bans if this is justified on the basis of various criteria such as the environment, safety or social grounds.
however, there are still a number of gaps which i believe have been filled by the committee on the environment, and i hope that the plenary will follow the proposals of the committee on the environment.
the problem is not being tackled by setting pollution thresholds.
this was clearly not the case in the pink city: no hazard assessment had been carried out in the building where the explosion occurred; the commission has also been working on the subject of the protection of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
those composed of waste and which exploded in the hangar of the zdf plant.
after the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i really felt that it was missing.
we must be concerned not just with corrections, but with sustainable global development.
so the approach of promoting access to land, water and biodiversity resources seems to me to be a good one, as does the approach of promoting a policy of support for small farms.
clearly, we must challenge the hierarchy of standards that gives the wto precedence over everything else and, therefore, over all international conventions aimed at protecting basic goods such as water and biodiversity, not to mention access to these basic goods.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
indeed, asia is slowly coming to realize that it faces the same global challenges as we do: promoting peace, security, minimum social standards, environmental protection and combating cross-border crime and trafficking in human beings.
firstly, we must prevent products from recycling waste from entering the food chain for humans and animals, and we must also strengthen controls on the waste stream from the chemical and pharmaceutical industries.
for my own country - and i assume this is the case for most countries - we must strive for better cooperation between the services which control the food chain and the services which manage waste streams.
the whole debate on environmental liability, ladies and gentlemen, needs to be stepped up and we need to get this done more quickly.
i am glad that this regulation offers us a modern version of the outdated legislation on slaughterhouse waste.
the prevention of cannibalism will require a major reorganization of the collection and disposal of animal waste.
finally, ladies and gentlemen, a word on the kitchen and restaurant waste containing animal products.
biosafety and biodiversity are very important issues and it is therefore essential that we ensure that the protocol also becomes eu law.
second, the explosion in mileage is costing enormous amounts of fossil fuel and causing environmental and social damage.
to enter into a logic of total free trade without first assessing the effects on the social, environmental or economic situation of these countries is a bit like entering a tunnel without light.
it seems to me that it is essential to inform the public about the place of the european union's energy demand in the energy consumption of the housing and service sectors, especially at a time when the threat of global warming is looming over our future.
of course, we must also add to this the problem of our dependence on external sources of energy supply.
a directive which, through the four instruments of the methodology for the integrated calculation of energy performance, the application of minimum energy performance requirements for new buildings and for renovations, and the introduction of an energy performance certification system, will, i believe, increase consumer information and encourage homeowners to invest in improving energy performance, in their own interests as well as in those of tenants.
the particular display system we want to put in place will not only allow citizens to be informed of this energy performance, but will also give public authorities an exemplary role in this regard.
the european industry will eventually have considerable expertise in energy performance of buildings, which will enhance its modernity and competitiveness.
i think that allocation should also take account of the energy efficiency of the technology used by a company.
we're going to have to adjust that system along the way, we're going to have to deal with climate issues, greenhouse gases, the measures that we're going to have to take, long after 2012. but there is one thing we must keep in mind: you can never build an ecological paradise on an economic graveyard.
the compromise reached in the committee on the environment reflects the specific nature of the european social model, which attempts to combine social and competitiveness.
i would like to ask you to guarantee that these monitoring and safeguard clauses also apply to social policy and environmental policy, which are very closely linked to the internal market.
i would ask that we start to remove unnecessary export subsidies now; we're going to have to come up with a roadmap where we say, we want to help the rural economies, the rural culture, the men and women - you have rightly underlined this - who live there, so that they can take care of their own food supply from their own situation with our adapted aid in an environmentally friendly way and with new forms of energy, without being dragged into agricultural production which has also proved to be detrimental to us.
the european commission is therefore right to propose a revision of the guidelines for transeuropean energy networks.
the revised proposal takes account of the liberalisation of energy markets, the increasing external energy dependence and the stricter requirements to promote renewable energy sources.
i do not think that massive subsidies to the energy sector are a good solution, because i think that this is contrary to the current trend towards liberalization and the creation of a competitive internal market.
it should be stressed that the main responsibility lies with the energy sector and with industry.
measures taken on the basis of this decision shall in no case lead to distortions of competition in the internal energy market.
in this context, the integration of renewable energy sources is an important factor.
i believe that in the future they will contribute to the diversification of energy sources and thus to the continuity of energy supply in the european union.
the new guidelines can indeed make a significant contribution to addressing the problems of energy security, the integration of renewable energy, the outermost regions and enlargement.
i would like to stress that community aid must be used pragmatically and that the first responsibility must be given to the energy sector itself.
regulatory stability and the maintenance of income policy guarantee investment choices and the sustainability of farms and agricultural enterprises.
we must avoid any limitation of aid to farmers that encourages large farms to develop further, to the detriment of the family farming model, which is human-sized and respectful of the environment.
it creates surpluses, high food prices and environmental damage and it is also very harmful to farmers in the third world.
finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to an environmental problem.
all the people on the ground and all the authorities on the ground are calling for a multilateral nuclear environmental programme.
mr president, the proposal for a directive on additives for use in animal feedingstuffs must be welcomed as a major step forward in the field of human health, animal health and the environment.
the scale of this economic and ecological disaster is becoming increasingly clear.
the erika disaster is still fresh in our minds, and the amoco cadiz disaster in 1978 has awakened environmental awareness in many of my generation.
we as greens support more water transport, but we cannot have those highways on the sea open to cowboys and environmental criminals.
we are calling for less transport, less use of fossil fuels and a more and greater full ecological union.
environmental criminals who had a leaking tanker towed into the open sea.
- mr president, let me first of all thank all those colleagues who have put so much of their time and energy into what i believe has been a very fruitful cooperation.
i welcome the fact that the joint text, while strongly encouraging voluntary and unpaid donations - this is the subject of our article 20 - leaves member states a certain amount of leeway to use paid donors in a strictly regulated environment.
it is a chemical that is harmful to our environment and our health.
in view of the strong suspicions of harmfulness of octar-bromodiphenyl ether, both for the environment and for public health, the european parliament has, once again by a very large majority, voted for its immediate ban.
the aim is to strike a delicate balance between obvious fire safety benefits and the environmental and health hazards that have been identified in some cases.
in conclusion, and i repeat my football metaphor, whereas the commission in its initial proposal gave only half a red card to pentabromodiphenyl ether, parliament and the council, acting as an impartial and fair arbiter, are giving two red cards to pentabromodiphenyl ether and octabromodiphenyl ether and one yellow card to decabromodiphenyl ether, because the main thing is to reconcile the immediate safety of citizens against fire risks with the longer-term benefits in terms of public health and the environment.
i am not going to repeat it, but it is crucial, it sets a precedent and it is a way in which we must continue our environmental policy in the months and years to come.
we may not always be the best student in the class in environmental matters, but in waste prevention and recycling, we are.
international law - and this is clearly stated in the resolution on which we all agree - cannot be a reason for destroying the environment, for destroying human life.
it is about people's social rights, about basic services such as water, energy, public transport, communications, health care, which are also essential for social cohesion and for the functioning of our economies.