the second area of barcelona's work will be the design of a european energy market based on openness, liberalisation, competition, transparency and interconnection.
guided by these criteria, the presidency will examine the opening of gas and electricity markets to businesses and consumers, the rules for third party access to networks and the creation of infrastructures and interconnections between national energy markets.
since then, the spring meetings of the european council have become the meeting place for economic, social and environmental issues within the framework of an overall sustainable development strategy.
finally, we must do so in the present uncertain and risky environment, where the values of genuine solidarity - and not just formal and partial solidarity - are of practical significance for our citizens, especially the most vulnerable.
significant achievements have already been made in a number of areas, such as the environment, telecommunications, education, pension reform and research.
these areas include some important aspects of the integration of financial services, transport and energy, the community patent and the galileo project.
we need to open up and connect energy and transport markets and develop broadband networks in europe.
education, training and research are certainly the key components of economic renewal, sustainable growth and job creation.
in this way, the spring council will be able to assess economic and social policy as a whole each year and thus ensure its sustainability.
mr president, you have managed to say not a word about the protection of the environment in the six priorities of the spanish presidency.
mr aznar, it is not for your ministry of the environment to do this, it is for you.
so you have to say something about emissions trading.
for example, you must say when you intend to implement the sectoral strategies of the sixth environment action programme.
this is not a matter for the environmental authorities in your country, but for you.
the success of the introduction of the euro cash is inspiring everyone and creating the climate of optimism that we urgently need in europe for investment, a boost to domestic demand and thus also for employment.
the rules are complicated, fragmented, rigid, tedious, bureaucratic and the integration of social and environmental concerns into procurement practice is not yet clear.
it is therefore necessary to clarify that labour, collective and environmental requirements are also respected.
the committee on industry, trade, research and energy, which is not known for taking social or environmental concerns into account, has therefore agreed, by a majority of its members, to include these aspects in its proposals.
i would like to make a few points clear here, because we have not only discussed but have incorporated into the proposal before us substantial results of the committee on industry, as well as the committee on employment and social affairs, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
or that the supply of energy and fuels should be excluded from the scope of this directive.
we are very much of the opinion that environmental policy and social policy should be regulated by environmental and social law.
so it is quite clear to us that social and environmental aspects are also involved in this decision.
social requirements must be as crucial as the consideration of human health and the careful handling of the environment.
this competition must not be carried out at the expense of the environment.
it is therefore clear that public contracting authorities must require compliance with high environmental standards.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this subject, and i would like to pay tribute to him for his energy, discipline and intelligence.
i refer to the question of social and environmental standards.
i would like to say once again, and i would like to say this for the other members of my group, that we are not concerned with the fact that social and environmental criteria do not play any role in the award procedure.
we want to avoid that, at the end of the tendering procedure, when the offers have been compared and it is found that offer 1 is the most economically advantageous, offer 2 is worse, offer 3 is even worse, offer 4 is the worst, a new assessment is opened to determine whether this company is more social because it has hired more disabled people, this other company is more ecological because it has a waste management system, and then, instead of finding the most economically advantageous offer, award the contract to the more expensive company.
i believe that neither the commission's proposal nor the report presented by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is worthless.
i do not understand him because, if i understand this correctly, the environment ministers in the member states of the european union are not only appointed by christian democrats, but primarily by the greens, but also by liberal social democrats and members of our party family.
i think that whenever it is said that environmental protection costs money, then first of all we must realize that of course environmental destruction and the consequences of environmental destruction also cost money, but that it is even worse when you spend subsidies, that is, money, on environmental destruction.
we should not abandon other economic instruments, such as environmental tax reform, but pursue them further, including at european level.
- the next item is the report (a5-0419/2001) by mrs garcía-orcoyen tormo, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the commission green paper on integrated product policy (com (2001) 68 - c5-0259/2001/2117 (cos)).
the green paper is intended to answer this question from an ecological point of view.
the consequences are well known: significant environmental impact in the production and use of products, which also involves health impacts on workers and consumers.
we can save money and not have to repair the damage to the environment.
the important thing for my group is that the total environmental costs are included in the price of the product.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the european product standardisation needs to be more closely involved, but services should also be provided from an environmental perspective.
we should examine their use and impact and, most importantly, we should ensure that eu environmental legislation is not relaxed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
in reducing the environmental impact of products throughout their life cycle, the objective of ipp is fundamental to addressing our environmental problems.
for this reason ipp is a key measure within the sixth environment action programme and the sustainable development strategy also underlines its importance.
in 1999 the informal environment council asked the commission to come forward with a green paper on the issue.
from your resolution and the comments from stakeholders it is clear that the white paper needs to start with concrete environmental problems.
issues such as climate change, hazardous chemicals and biodiversity affect us all.
if we take environmental problems rather than instruments as our point of departure, we can better convey the idea that ipp is more than just a collection of tools, something that we perhaps did not do sufficiently in the green paper.
we have to link it to concrete environmental problems to describe how to use these instruments.
- the next item is the report (a5-0451/2001) by mr alyssandrakis, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council (com (2000) 597 - c5-0146/2001/2072 (cos)) and the european parliament entitled 'europe and space: opening a new chapter'.
we have had the ambitious aim in europe since lisbon of becoming the number one in the world, and this of course includes technology and science, although i am not thinking primarily of the electronic voting system we examined here yesterday, but of more advanced technologies such as telecommunications, earth observation and environmental protection.
i would first of all like to congratulate mr alyssandrakis and thank him for his clear and constructive report, and also thank all the members of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and the members of the various committees who have taken part in this debate and have been associated with the report.
a europe determined to promote sustainable development, which, after gothenburg, is one of the union's priorities.
i would like to stress here - in response to some of the concerns raised by the rapporteur - the resolute peace instrument nature of the gmes initiative (global monitoring for environment and security) in the field of environmental and security monitoring.
in our view, the cotonou agreement provides a comprehensive framework, integrating trade as one instrument among others to promote sustainable development.
we need to pay even more attention to the maintenance of healthy stocks, because only healthy marine ecosystems guarantee sustainable and future-proof management.
secondly, we know too little about the interconnectedness of the marine ecosystem.
i have to tell you, the discussions of the jurists in this environment have occasionally reminded me of the discussions in ancient byzantium about the sex of angels.
this also means that we need a competitive environment in the european union.
what we are doing to european regional and structural policy is also aid, although it is not the state aid we are going to discuss tonight, and it is a political instrument for the promotion of smes and environmental protection, research and development.
at least it must be made clear that slaughter waste which is not processed, waste water, grease and tallow must nevertheless be treated.
until an open declaration of feed is introduced and until the processing of slaughter waste from healthy animals can be carried out safely, we will certainly maintain the current ban on animal feed.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the report and also for his commitment to climate protection over the last few years.
the scientists tell us very clearly that if we want to stop climate change, we need to reduce greenhouse gases globally by 50 percent.
in this context, it is bad enough that some member states in the eu are allowed to increase their emissions, and that member states, such as the one i come from, which pollute very, very much, complain that they now have to reduce relatively much.
we are putting pressure on our industry and ourselves to develop products and processes that are as energy efficient as possible, and we are ultimately making ourselves competitive, although i do not want to hide the fact that there will be difficulties for some industries.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
sustainable development and local stakeholder participation must be a hallmark of future coalition policies, and this must start now.
i would also like to mention a few other aspects which have more to do with the organization and also with the political environment.
we have set out three priorities for the coming year: the enlargement; stability and safety; a sustainable and inclusive economy.
the third priority for 2003 is a sustainable and inclusive economy.
the other two priorities - security and sustainable economy - are also additional responsibilities for the commission.
but they are also, of course, in the tradition of the lisbon decisions, and there have been very demanding formulations: the most dynamic, competitive and sustainable economic area should be created.
you have rightly spoken of the liberalisation of markets, of the transport market, of the energy market, and i would add the postal and financial services.
it knows the value of our european social model and the importance of sustainable economic growth.
it can also contribute to sustainable development by conserving resources through the wise use of biotechnology.
the european parliament has always stressed, however, that there are also necessary limits, limits which are necessary in themselves and which must be set politically to protect the environment and health, but also for ethical reasons.
the unreserved investigation of flechard ii, which is not only a waste of money but also a health hazard, is, however, a matter which will continue to concern us in the discharge procedure for 2000.
chairman of the committee on budgetary control.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
a5-0077/2002 by mr turmes and mr rapkay, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directives 96/92/ec and 98/30/ec on common rules for the internal market in electricity and natural gas (com (2001) 125 - c5-0184/2001 - 2001/0077 (cod)) - a5-0074/2002 by mr mombaur, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on conditions for access to the network for crossborder exchanges in electricity (com (2001) 125 - c5-0185/2001 - 2001/0078 (cod))
- mr rapporteur, at the moment - as you can see for yourself - she is not here yet.
what we are doing here is a law that will completely reorganize one of the key markets in europe, namely the energy market.
efficiency gains for the economy to improve its competitiveness, especially of small and medium-sized enterprises, efficiency gains for consumers in terms of low prices, and efficiency gains for the environment through the conservation of resources.
i am therefore in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which are intended to improve the quality of the information provided by the commission.
i would also like to remind you that at the end of the 1980s, when the commission published its white paper on the internal market, energy was not mentioned at all, which shows that this is an extremely complicated matter.
we are not only opening up the market for gas and electricity, but we are also setting the conditions, environmental conditions, social conditions, or leaving it to the member states to regulate these.
we need a market, we need regulated competition, but energy is also something to which citizens have a right.
the security of supply must be defined, the ecological conditions must be defined.
the opening up of energy markets is also a prerequisite for the kyoto protocol to work.
without competition, without an open market, there will be no emissions trading in europe.
although there were some initial difficulties with the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, we agreed that the environment committee should draw up an opinion on this.
we have taken them up and we have had an informal trilogue with the draftsman of the opinion from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, so that there has been no battle between the environment and transport in this house.
secondly, we have received the council's approval - and i say this to all our environmental friends in the house - to stipulate for the review in five years' time that we will be aiming for a more stringent regime than the negative 5 after these five years.
however, i have to disagree with him on the way he has dealt with the environment committee - that was legally correct, but politically not quite optimal!
the acceptance of additional noise pollution is decreasing.
two things to say at the end: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the environment.
all those involved - workers, employers and the legislator - should therefore make every effort to keep noise pollution at work as low as possible.
we cannot do anything to reduce the noise pollution to which people are voluntarily exposed in their leisure time.
it is enshrined in our european constitution, in our treaties, that we must take care to improve the working environment to protect the health of workers.
the committee on the environment has extended this 18-month deadline to 36 months in order to give small and medium-sized enterprises in particular sufficient time to compile their product data.
austria for the bio-composting and biogas recovery operations which would no longer be possible under the common position, germany for the reuse and sterilisation of restaurant waste.
in germany there are very modern, high-performance plants that sterilize food waste in the best possible way and then reuse it for animal feed.
i particularly support the amendments adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to the common position on the recycling of kitchen waste for animal feed.
the feeding of untreated waste from kitchens and restaurants has often been seen in the past as a possible trigger for swine fever and mcs.
it is therefore essential that such untreated kitchen and catering waste transported across borders is eliminated in principle.
it is certainly sensible to treat kitchen waste and leftovers under strict conditions in order to be able to control the whole process down to the last detail.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food waste is not used for animal feed.
i therefore expressly support the amendment tabled by the committee on the environment.
is it any dirtier to deal with such unpalatable things as leftovers and slaughterhouse waste?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
the directive on swine fever comes into force on 1 november and generally prohibits the feeding of food waste.
food waste instead of waste tourism - that is my political demand.
we have the largest population in my country, about a quarter of the total population of the eu lives in germany, and the correspondingly high incidence of food waste.
the 1991 directive on the treatment of municipal waste water was intended to ensure the construction and maintenance of sewage treatment plants in all major cities and municipalities in the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's waters are not contaminated by untreated municipal waste water.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his report, which has been very well received by the house and which has been very well received by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the russian government has raised a number of questions on the problem of access, the problem of cross-border transport and the problem of energy supply.
the emphasis is on projects in the fields of environment and transport infrastructure, where there is also the greatest need and where the candidate countries have also made commitments in the negotiations which we must help them to fulfil.
we need an agricultural policy in which aid is linked to ecological and social criteria and projects are financed only if the reform is supported.
the commission has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
amendments nos 1 and 10, which were adopted by a majority in the committee on the environment, deal with the prohibition and the destruction and use of food waste.
the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment are dated 30 june 2002. in amendment no 25 by mrs paulsen, the time is 'before the entry into force of this regulation', which is what we are voting on now.
i would like to put the oral amendment that the two amendments adopted by the committee on the environment should also include the date 'before the entry into force of this regulation' and that we should vote in favour of this.
but it is precisely in the case of no 52 that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is opposed.
i expect the commission to exercise its control functions during this transitional period until a regulation is in place to regulate everything, so that we do not have to suffer again the disasters we have experienced - foot-and-mouth disease, swine fever - which can come from untreated food waste.
i shall make suggestions in my own report, which i shall be presenting on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy together with my colleague james elles for the committee on foreign affairs.
i don't care if the product is the best, the most qualified, the most sustainable, the cheapest, if there's no buyer who can afford it.
the resolution stresses the need to give greater importance to r & d. it is true that r & d is an essential factor for the sustainable increase of productivity and competitiveness, which are fundamental elements if we are to achieve that lisbon objective of making our economy the most competitive in the world.
secondly, environmental measures.
the profitability of the manufacturing industry, with its small-scale structure, has been significantly reduced in part by eu environmental measures.
environmental protection is important, whether it concerns waste water, packaging or emissions.
what good is the cleanest waste water ad hoc if there are no more businesses and no more jobs in the coastal regions?
one thing is clear: the fish processing industry is not a polluter but a victim of pollutants and pollution.
it requires a balanced consideration of its many aspects, such as the cap and the environment, economic and social cohesion and public health.
in the short term, south africa would face a refugee problem; in the long term, such a crisis could threaten the regional prospects for economic growth and sustainable development.
we therefore set the european union a strategic objective for the next decade: to make europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth, with more and better jobs, and with greater social cohesion.
i would also like to highlight its resolutions on the ratification of the kyoto protocol, on sustainable development and the reports adopted last week on the internal market in electricity and gas and crossborder exchanges in electricity.
the european economic area we are striving for will only become a reality if, together with a transparent and flexible legal framework, we move towards the opening up and interconnection of key sectors such as transport, energy and telecommunications, and towards a financial system which, in turn, allows for the correct allocation of savings and financing at the lowest possible cost.
as you know, it has been decided to open the gas and electricity markets in 2004 to all european companies, which means that approximately 70% of the european energy market will be open to competition.
these energy opening measures are also complemented by the objective of electricity interconnection between member states of at least 10% of installed production capacity by 2005. once this objective has been achieved, we will no longer be able to speak of fragmented national markets but of a genuine european electricity market, open and integrated.
the second set of issues i would like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, is the sustainable development strategy which we adopted at the european council in gothenburg.
the european council agreed that the energy taxation directive will enter into force in december 2004, in parallel with the opening of energy markets.
the year 2002 will see the launch of the galileo programme, the adoption of the revision of the transeuropean energy and transport networks, the adoption of proposals on port services and public service contracts and the rules on the allocation of flight time slots, the adoption of seven directives and a regulation on financial services and the important regulation on crossborder flows of electricity.
in 2004 the gas and electricity markets will be opened up to all businesses, member states will be in budgetary surplus, the energy products directive will enter into force and the single european sky will be implemented.
we have been very concerned about the creation of jobs, the creation of conditions for remaining competitive on the labour market and the environment.
we will therefore continue to link social and environmental aspects to our overall policy decisions.
mr president of the european council, the european council is asking us - parliament and the council - to open the energy market to utilities within a certain period of time.
we would have been grateful if the european council had asked us to open the european energy market to consumers, because we would be willing to do so.
i therefore ask that work in this area be continued with greater force and energy, even against some of the resistance which, as we know from experience, always exists in some member states.
the word consumer protection is popping up, and the word sustainability is popping up everywhere you can tie it to: sustainable transport, sustainable economy.
everything is sustainable.
yes, enlargement, yes, sustainable economy, yes, perhaps also security and stability.
in fact, some member states have so far failed to adequately threaten community environmental legislation with sanctions.
the number of environmental infringements detected by the commission increased from 612 in 1999 to 755 in 2000. as a member of the committee on petitions, i would add that more and more of these cases are also being investigated on the basis of petitions.
the citizens of our union have developed a sense of environmental concern and are increasingly reporting these crimes or turning to us for help, since they often lack the protection of the member states.
so it would be nice if the level of environmental awareness in governments was about the same as that of citizens.
we do not want to abolish national criminal law, since the directive applies only to activities which protect community environmental law and the rules by which the member states have so far implemented that community law.
we are only setting minimum requirements for criminal law protection of the environment, leaving it up to the member states to maintain or introduce more stringent protective measures.
the main objective of this directive is to combat pollution which can be attributed to natural or legal persons.
environmental offences still seem to be considered as a sort of chivalrous offence in some member states.
one thing is very important: women play an important role in sustainable development and therefore gender issues should be taken into account at every stage of the planning, implementation and evaluation of development cooperation.
- the common position of the council on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work (rapporteur: mr florenz); - a5-0097/2002 by mr florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council (c5-0637/2001 - 2000/0159 (cod)) with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (rapporteur: mr florenz).
as rapporteur, i regret that a rather interesting report on the question of how we will recycle electronic waste in europe in the future is being debated in the middle of the night.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
there are two models in terms of cost, one for historical waste and another for new equipment.
as far as historical waste is concerned, the cost should be borne collectively, because it is no longer possible to do this individually.
in the case of collective historical waste, we have proposed an alternative cost-sharing system for businesses, the voluntary visible fee.
the industry has written angry letters in recent days because a decision was not taken in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, namely the question: how can we protect ourselves against freeriders in future with new products?
they were not very ambitious on the electronic waste regulation.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0090/2002) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council (c5-0638/2001 - 2001/0018 (cod)) with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending for the 24th time council directive 76/769/eec on the restriction of the placing on the market and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (pentabromodiphenyl ether) (rapporteur: mrs ries).
it prohibits the use of pentabromodiphenyl ether, pentabde, which has been identified by a risk assessment as posing an environmental risk.
the proposed directive will not increase the risk of fire or the risk to the environment, as there are already suitable alternatives available.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of asbestos.
secondly, there must be exceptions to existing schemes in member states which provide for state support for the production of agricultural alcohol, in order to take account of aspects of landscape and environmental protection, biodiversity and the preservation of small-scale farming structures.
the production is also of great ecological importance and the by-products are even used as animal feed for agriculture.
gender awareness is gaining ground among some decision-makers, and we know that sustainable development must start with women first.
we also know that sustainable development is not a zero-sum game.
target date here is the end of 2003. i cannot, however, agree with the statement in paragraph 5. sustainable exploitation of stocks would not have been achieved even if all member states had achieved their objectives.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the creation of a european network of experts in the field of the environment, the development of a european network of experts in the field of the environment, and the development of a european network of experts in the field of the environment.
i am very pleased that two subjects which i have been advocating repeatedly have been included, namely, firstly, research to improve the human environment of mines.
all the issues raised by the previous speakers - human rights, public health and environmental policy - are the real issues, and we must take action to help them.
this is particularly true of private investment, which would create the production capacity and jobs that would make this sustainable growth possible over a longer period, but could also organise technological progress and thus in turn contribute to increasing demand.
mr patten was right to mention kyoto, that is, climate policy.
if i had time, i could calculate what carbon trading could mean for latin america in the future.
(applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
i have concentrated on the economic impact study for the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and i have come to the following conclusion - my colleagues have supported me in this and i would also like to thank my colleague james elles for including this in the report.
fifthly, in keeping with the above line, the willingness to cooperate in other forums and international processes was expressed, such as the doha agenda and the road to johannesburg, the conference on sustainable development.
with regard to the foreign sales corporation, thanks to the favourable climate created by the delay in the panel's decision for june, this point was dealt with in a positive tone and bush undertook to change domestic us tax legislation to bring it into line with the world trade organisation.
our cooperation to help developing countries has gone beyond trade; we have both substantially increased development assistance; we have agreed on a financing for development strategy in the "monterrey consensus"; we are now working very closely in preparation for the johannesburg summit on sustainable development.
we are discussing with our us colleagues how to re-launch the transatlantic environment dialogue and how to give greater impetus to the consumer and business dialogues.
the european parliament's committee on the environment has adopted several amendments which provide for flexibility in the marketing of game and game meat without compromising food safety.
the power, indeed the moral obligation, to organise such a wide-ranging framework in the interests of economic well-being is enshrined in the chapter on the principles of the european union, if we include among the activities of the union the introduction of an economic policy based on the definition of common objectives, in which, in particular, a harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of economic life, a high level of employment and a steady, non-inflationary growth, but also social protection, can and must be organised.
he was in charge at the time and said: 'if we, the commission, have decided, we should think of a directive which makes this decision sustainable for the future.'
at that time, developing countries even tried to write the term 'sustainable development' in the final declaration, instead of 'sustainable economic growth'.
when we talk about environmental protection, it's sometimes a little bit unbelievable.
however, we as the eu should keep both in mind, economic and social development, but also environmental protection, because of course they are interrelated.
if the world bank, for example, calculates that in the case of no action on climate change, the gdp of the industrialized countries will fall by 1 to 2% in the coming years as a result of the climate catastrophe, but that of the developing countries will fall by 10%, then it is clear that environmental and social and economic development cannot be used in opposition to each other, but that they are interrelated.
but - and the developing countries are right - we must pretend that it is possible to organise economic growth and prosperity without doing so at the expense of the environment.
that is why, for example, in the field of climate protection, we must reduce our emissions before we can impose any obligations on developing countries.
the commission's proposals on emissions trading, for example, can therefore be criticized a lot, they can be improved, but this basic approach must be followed.
we need to act now on the ground so that developing countries will actually believe that sustainable development is possible.
a more effective partnership with the un requires an adequate enabling legal and financial environment: we are negotiating the revision of the 1999 ec-un framework agreement, with a view to concluding all this by the end of the year.
then we have these pieces on thursday afternoons that are a waste of time.
i am also pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
the climate, not only within the committee on fisheries, is extremely bleak.
we are currently discussing in the european parliament several directives which, incidentally, offer them trade opportunities, a directive on biofuels - we are also offering them new markets - and a directive on carbon trading as a result of the kyoto agreement.
i think that some of the elements that the greens have tried to bring in are also positive, that we should talk more about sustainability, for example.
the aim must be to make it clear that landscape and environmental services do not 'cost nothing' but receive a traceable market value.
'very well tightened up', said a major monday newspaper about the emissions legislation we are going to adopt tomorrow, and indeed we have taken another step with this legislation towards reducing the combustion behaviour of engines in relation to air pollutants.
the motorised two-wheelers have been left somewhat out of the emissions legislation in the past.
we have set limits which reduce the permitted emissions by an average of 75%.
but we have added safety nets to the limitation, so that these limits are not only nice for the approval process, but actually on the road, they actually reduce the emissions of motorcycles and scooters.
is there a mechanical, engineering or perhaps maintenance failure that leads to higher emissions?
the fact that these conflicting interests and views have of course also existed in the european parliament, in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, shows that this is not such a bad compromise, and if we then agree in the second reading that we want to support this very proposal from the commission, which is almost a year old, that speaks a little bit in favour of this proposal.
coal will continue to play an important role in energy supply in the foreseeable future.
i agree with the commission on this point, even though the share of coal in energy production is now quite small compared with other primary energy sources.
the right integration of indigenous primary energy sources and therefore coal into the european strategy for energy security inevitably leads to the right of member states to grant aid in this sector, since community coal production is not competitive with imports due to geological conditions, environmental and social standards in the eu.
in any event, i hope and trust that the council can now reach a political agreement at the energy council on 7 june, and i hope that, thanks to the votes of this parliament, it will also have the support of this house, and that we, with the council, will complete the procedure for adopting this regulation.
the commission proposal is based on the green paper's reflections on a european strategy for energy security and supply, and it is true that it is not a question here of whether we are threatened or not.
the whole energy supply chain presents precisely those points where we are very vulnerable.
over the last few years, the european commission has been presenting proposals to encourage the contribution of renewable energies, mainly within the framework of indigenous primary energy sources.
in this respect, it is important that the member states of the union which have coal resources have a community framework which enables them to continue to maintain access to them and to maintain a minimum level of production which guarantees such access, within that approach to security of supply, to a minimum level of indigenous primary energy.
the commission's proposal to withdraw references to the contribution of coal and renewable energies, to the creation of a base of autonomous primary energy sources, is not consistent with the principles of strengthening security of supply and, as i have just said, we cannot accept it.
we want to emphasize that when it comes to energy and environmental issues, the commission's approach is global and takes into account all the issues related to energy sources and their use.
we also believe that it is consistent with the three pillars of the principle of sustainable development: security of supply, economic rationality, social and regional cohesion.
ladies and gentlemen, mr president, i would like to thank very sincerely all those who have spoken, even those who have been the most critical, and i think that the text is a balanced text, which i understand does not satisfy some people completely and some people not so much, but i think that it is what can and must be done at the moment to maintain stability and a clear framework of relations in this key sector in some european regions in particular, but also key in the face of enlargement and key in the face of security of energy supply.
i think there is no doubt that everyone wants to have a well-planned and sustainable transport system as the backbone of europe.
the eu is not here to fulfil national wish lists, but has a macroeconomic responsibility, and that responsibility lies first and foremost in sustainable mobility and environmentally friendly means of transport, which are the future, and that means rail, above all.
planning must be consistent with eu policies such as environmental protection.
i therefore urge once again that planning for the transeuropean networks finally move away from the corridor approach and towards the territorial approach, that is to say, planning from the objective, what we want to achieve, and then looking at what is the best and most sustainable solution, which is also suitable for future generations.
the attempt, and i shall now turn to the river basins in particular, to build huge reservoirs in europe, whereas rivers have another meaning, namely that they are habitats for people, for tourism, for the natural environment, is to be questioned in my view.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
this is good both from an economic and an ecological point of view.
we have taken up the challenge and worked together to prevent the recurrence of terrible events such as the shipwreck of the erika, where there is not only a risk to human life, but also a pollution of the sea, with terrible consequences for the people living along the coast, for the flora, the fauna, the flora and for the defence of the environment.
the sixth initiative, the only one still pending, the fund initiative, the increase in the guarantee of the level of support and the guarantee for oil pollution is currently being discussed in the international maritime organization, and we hope that a decision will be reached, which will allow for a solution at international level, such as the maritime sector, and which will not oblige us to return to a european initiative.
i would also like to thank the council for having agreed once and for all to respond to the citizens' demands: that we provide a framework for greater safety and protection for the maritime sector in general and for pollution caused by oil spills in particular.
i would like to ask, on behalf of my group, but also in consultation with all the shadow rapporteurs and the coordinators of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, that my two reports on the rules for the participation and dissemination of research results in the framework programme and the euratom programme be postponed until the july part-session.
it was not possible to have a formal vote on this agreement in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
i am pleased to say that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted the position of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which is a very important one.
i have to say to mrs jackson: i could not withdraw the amendments even if i wanted to because the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection adopted them with 44 votes in favour.
although we had slightly different views on some of the details at the beginning of the debate, we were on the same page overall: the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection have complemented each other very well, and i think that should be mentioned and appreciated, especially in these days.
this is not an end in itself, but a basic prerequisite for finally gaining insight into the problems of every society and every living environment.
we have made considerable progress in the fight against discrimination based on sex and have ensured the effective and sustainable implementation of a fundamental principle of the treaty in the member states.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the following reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0211/2002 by mr van velzen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation (com (2002) 43 - c5-0212/2002 - 2001/0122 (snc)) adopting a specific research, technological development and demonstration programme: 'integrating and strengthening the european research area' (2002-2006); - a5-0206/2002 by mrs zorba, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the amended proposal for a council decision (com (2002) 43 - c5-0213/2002 - 2001/0123 (cns)) adopting a specific research, technological development and demonstration programme: 'structuring the european research area' (2002-06); - a5-0210/2002 by mr piétrasanta, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the amended proposal for a council decision (com (2002) 43 - c5-0214/2002 - 2001/0124 (cns)) adopting a specific research, technological development and demonstration programme to be implemented by the joint research centre through direct actions (2002-2006); - a5-0209/2002 by mr alyssandrakis, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal and amended proposal for a council decision (com (2002) 279 - c5-0333/2001 + com (2002) 43 - c5-0215/2002 - 2001/0125 (cns)) adopting a specific research and training programme (euratom) in the field of nuclear energy (2002-2006); - a5-0208/2002 by mr schwaiger, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal and amended proposal for a council decision (com (2002) 279 - c5-0334/2001 + com (2002) 43 - c5-0216/2002 - 2001/0126 (cns)) adopting a specific research and training programme to be implemented by the joint research centre for the european atomic energy community (2002-06) through direct actions.
my report deals with the direct actions for the european atomic energy community which are being implemented and realised by the joint research centre and its establishments at ispra, petten, geel, mol and karlsruhe.
it is very important that in the decades to come supporters and critics of nuclear energy can certainly agree a sufficient number of highly qualified young nuclear researchers in europe actively contribute to ensuring nuclear safety in operating nuclear power plants through their research and also to controlling the source of danger of fuel cycles, if necessary.
the same applies to the safe storage and the speedy decontamination of nuclear waste in the coming decades.
the commission and, in particular, vice-president de palacio, have welcomed and supported these ideas in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's nuclear waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the community.
i am happy to admit that agriculture is not so much affected by nuclear energy, if we leave aside the wind which has just been mentioned.
the committee on agriculture and rural development regrets, in principle, that there is no specific core area for the agricultural sector in the sixth research framework programme, but that projects are divided into the food safety, environmental protection and development chapters.
it would be appropriate to have a separate research package here, especially since agriculture is one of the major fields of practical application of research results, alongside nuclear energy and pharmaceuticals, both in terms of scope and practical application.
in the context of sustainable development, we should use research to combat environmental problems.
i have tabled a number of amendments to this effect, which have been supported by the committee, for example on research into sustainable biofuels.
contrary to what mr graefe said about baringdorf, i believe that biotechnology can play a very, very positive role in the environmental field.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission congratulates the rapporteur, mr nisticò, and the committee on the environment on the progress made on this important matter.
the climate has become more hostile, the sceptics are becoming louder, agitating against europe in general and against enlargement in particular, and in doing so they like to rely on ignorance, fears and prejudices.
it is true that we need more europe: for peace and security at home and abroad, for growth and employment, for the protection of the environment, for the highest possible social standards, for equal opportunities for all.
if, for example, the environmental chapters are closed, we should not reopen them because it is thought that a certain road or a certain canal cannot be built in a certain country, if i analyse some of these proposals here properly.
this means completely different living, working and social costs, and, incidentally, very different environmental standards for a long time to come.
i would like to tell you about something i learned in prague this weekend, namely that it takes about a year to register a foreign company in the czech commercial register - unless you invest eur 2 000. in the internal market, there must be no confusion between rights and obligations because of the lack of enforcement of environmental, social and consumer standards.
i was asked to write a horizontal report on industrial policy, research, energy and foreign trade for 12 candidate countries.
in particular, there is a lack of more effective administrative structures, a single register, effective controls, truly adapted hygiene and environmental standards and measures against 'cheap flags'.
madam president, from the point of view of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, it is of course important that now that sapard is entering its operational phase, where funds are actually being drained, that these funds be used for rural development and less for agricultural production capacity.
environmental concerns and alternative jobs in rural areas are to be financed under the second pillar of the common agricultural policy.
this can only be the highest technical standard possible if we want to continue to use nuclear energy, but for me it is an opportunity to really point out one thing: let us not ask the candidate countries to do something unfair that we do not ask of ourselves.
but apart from orderly relations within this state, what the people of nepal need above all is concrete measures, sustainable measures, economic and structural reforms in all parts of the country, to finally get out of poverty.
despite the political crisis, the commission is committed to support for nepal's sustainable development.
(applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and i think that this report really takes us forward on an issue which is of great importance politically, economically, environmentally and energy policy.
demand for energy for transport purposes will continue to increase.
the promotion of biofuels is part of the union's overall strategy to double the share of renewable energy sources by 2010. we have good reasons for this strategy.
the eu committed itself in kyoto to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8%.
transport is a major source of pollution.
the same applies to ensuring security of supply, and the promotion of biomass as an energy source is also bringing new and important impetus to rural development.
it is important that environmental and climatic conditions are also given special consideration here, that agricultural practices are reviewed accordingly and that it is not at all acceptable that the council - as it is probably seeking to do at the moment - envisages an opt-out for each member state without any major barriers.
i would caution against seeing it as a carbon problem only, because biofuels are much more expensive and the co2 savings potential is comparatively expensive and low.
i also see a question of alternatives for agriculture, not just improving energy independence, but also a way for our farmers to offer alternatives that strengthen their own energy base in the face of growing surplus problems.
that is why the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has adopted by a large majority the very good report by mrs ayuso.
mrs rothe has already raised this point: what was emphasized in amendments nos 68 and 69 by mrs ayuso and mrs rothe has been taken up in many individual motions by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
so we want a clear ecological balance, we want a clear balance of co2, of the alternatives.
in my experience since 1994 the member states have been selfish in their taxation policy and an agreement on a single energy tax is still a long way off.
the energy dependence is reduced to the extent that we produce biofuels.
the biofuels directive will of course also increase the desire and the efforts of biologists to create renewable raw materials that are more environmentally friendly and more efficient.
it will not solve the whole climate problem, it will not solve the whole energy problem, but it can contribute to energy security, it can contribute to climate protection, and it can bring additional income opportunities for agriculture.
it's always intense environmental pollution, concentrated in one place.
the life cycle and environmental impact of the biofuels production are mentioned.
if the "erika" had bio-diesel on board, the environment would be fine.
ecological and biological are hot words of the moment, and they are often hollow.
i believe that the ecological balance also includes the economic evaluation of biofuels, and also in comparison with conventional fuels.
for agriculture in the european union, as has been mentioned many times, the cultivation of renewable raw materials could be a welcome additional source of income.
(applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
on 12 march 2002, the commission recommended that energy networks be included in the present amendment to the regulation.
the background is the proposal to amend the guidelines on transeuropean energy networks, for which mr beysen is the rapporteur in the committee on industry.
the investment is intended to ensure a high level of security of energy supply, and this is to be achieved by increased investment to solve the multiple problems of planning and implementation in the area of infrastructure development.
the aim is to create a genuine internal energy market, including the regions and policies that are currently not covered or implemented.
the increase in the community funds for energy networks provided for in the financial perspective for 2002 to 2006 must be excluded and a regular report from the commission to parliament must be submitted listing those projects which can be expected to be completed quickly by the increase from 10% to 20%.
the year 2001 provided a particularly challenging environment for the monetary policy of the european central bank.
wage moderation is a key factor in favouring the expansion of employment and in helping to create the conditions for a sustainable increase in the potential growth rate of the euro area economy.
it cannot be overstated that the fall in import prices in this phase of weak recovery in the euro area creates a favourable environment for an expansionary monetary policy and in any case does not require any decisions to change interest rates in one direction.
it is to be hoped that the coordination of economic policies will finally create a positive environment for all the actors.
that was not the position of the committee on the environment, and unfortunately mr trakatellis did not follow the custom of presenting the report of the committee on the environment, but unfortunately he expressed his own position.
the committee on the environment has adopted a number of amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, and that is a good thing.
after very different proposals were presented to the committee, these amendments were withdrawn, with the explanation that the environment committee has the better overview of this issue, but i do not want to hide the fact that i still think a threshold of 0.1% is quite desirable.
by changing fewer building blocks of genetic material, a plant is better adapted to adverse environmental influences, such as pest infestation or weed competition.
the environment is relieved.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, against the vote of the epp group, has reduced the threshold for the accidental and technically unavoidable presence of gmos from 1% in the commission proposal to 0.5%.
in essence, this threshold is a necessary tolerance level, especially in the transitional period, for gmos which have not yet been authorised under the de facto moratorium but have already been examined by the relevant scientific committees in the eu and found not to be a danger to human health and the environment.
the commission must also finally put forward more safety measures to prevent pollution, because we really need more labelling and consumer safety.
within the union, a number of genetically modified organisms have already been evaluated by the scientific committees and found to pose no risk to health or the environment.
thirdly, sustainable development - economic, social and environmental.
we will work to ensure that economic growth goes hand in hand with environmental protection and the improvement of employment.
secondly, the danish presidency will work for sustainable development.
a strong and competitive european economy is the prerequisite for growth, prosperity, increased employment and sustainable development.
the eu will and must play a central role at the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg.
the third and final topic i want to deal with today is johannesburg and the world summit on sustainable development.
the concept of sustainability is a recurring one in our thinking.
we often talk about sustainability and long-term objectives for our environmental, economic and social policies, and i hope that the johannesburg summit will be a decisive step forward.
in the three major themes i have dealt with today - enlargement, institutional reform and sustainable development - the european union must be a model of democratic efficiency.
for this reason, the world expects us to make a very high contribution to the sustainability debate, and it has to be everyone's contribution: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
this is a remarkable achievement given the difficult security and political environment and the tight timetable, a partly displaced population and the lack of reliable infrastructure, including statistics.
to achieve sustainable development, we need a two-tiered policy.
we need to agree on the priority of standards in the areas of social policy, trade and the environment and social governance.
data collected on complicated issues such as agricultural waste and waste recycling will benefit particularly from this.
allow me to say a word on the waste data requirement for agriculture.
in order to reduce the administrative burden on small enterprises, enterprises with fewer than 10 employees will be excluded from surveys, unless they contribute significantly to the generation of waste.
an intensive energy partnership is being worked out with russia.
he photographed an illegal dumping of nuclear waste, and he showed civil courage.
i think it is an important responsibility of the commission - and i ask mrs diamantopoulou to take this message to the cabinet - that in all plans with russia, human rights and democratic freedoms are discussed first and that a response is first demanded from the russian government, and then that we move on to intergovernmental talks on energy.
it exports energy and is one of the richest countries in the world with ideal conditions.
(applause from the centre)
mr president, last monday the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy held a debate with the danish presidency on the implementation of the sixth research framework programme.
in 1999, the total amount of packaging waste generated in the european union was 63.5 million tonnes.
this represents about 17% of municipal waste and 3% of the weight of all waste generated.
directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste has led to a reduction in the environmental impact of packaging and packaging waste, in particular through increased collection, recycling and recovery of waste.
the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the need to take account of the economic and environmental consequences of the recovery and material recovery targets.
in addition, the environmental benefits were estimated at around eur 350 million.
however, there are significant differences between the different packaging materials, both in terms of environmental benefits and the cost of material recovery.
this is intended to ensure that material recycling is focused on those materials where it provides the most environmental benefits in relation to the costs incurred.
i should also like to add that i introduced the proposal on behalf of my colleague, mrs wallström, who is in johannesburg today for the sustainable development summit.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, mrs corbey, for her report and congratulating her on it.
it has broadened the debate on the amendment of the packaging directive and brought it into a broader environmental policy light.
in addition to the change in recycling rates, it has introduced considerations of environmental impact assessments, for example through the use of life cycle analysis.
it is of course never wrong to start thinking about environmental impact assessment methods as early as possible, as this will create wider awareness of such environmental policy concepts.
on the other hand, we cannot prescribe results in the directive on packaging waste until we have dealt with the subject in detail here in parliament.
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has almost unanimously agreed.
that is why we in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy voted by a majority to exclude amendment no 16, which already provides for the introduction of environmental indicators for packaging, from the report.
the new targets are ambitious, but i think they are justified in the end, from an industrial policy point of view, in favour of the environmental objectives of the european union.
it is necessary that in future all member states actively and constructively contribute to the systematic prevention, collection and recycling of packaging waste.
we need optimal systems for the 58 million tonnes of packaging waste produced in the european union every year.
we are thus improving environmental protection, but at the same time we are also giving important industries greater planning certainty.
and they account for only 0.1% of the packaging waste generated in the european union.
they are inert and do not pose an environmental problem.
amendment no 43 provides for the physical recycling of plastics, which will allow the production of new-product quality plastics from contaminated plastic waste.
in germany, for example, over 1.8 million tonnes of plastic waste have already been recycled.
it offers another method of recycling plastics in addition to the melting of high-quality, pure packaging plastics and the purely thermal recycling of mixed plastics in waste incineration plants.
in addition, consumer protection requires that packaging materials are safe and comply with the requirements, that the hazard of waste is minimised and that the manufacture of packaging is state-of-the-art.
i do not think that the commission should develop environmental indicators for packaging.
the commission should develop concrete criteria for assessing the environmental impact of packaging.
we need this directive to establish a functioning waste management system for packaging in all the member states of the european union.
so it is obvious that the area recovery, the ecological crop rotation that we can create by protein rotation, can now also be used for protein production.
but we have to focus on the ecological impact of protein farming in the other areas of land reduction and on the fact that this protein farming gives us 40 to 80 kilos of nitrogen.
we must think again about how we can come to a system of control and how we can also bring the ecological component into the negotiations with the americans in such a way that we can finally come to a new agreement and not always have to refer to agreements that were concluded ten years ago, that is to say, blair house.
i believe that the proposals are appropriate to create a new architecture in the sky, to set up functional airspace blocks and thus ensure that on the one hand we increase capacity, which is absolutely necessary in view of the increasing volume of air traffic, and on the other hand we increase safety by minimising potential dangers in advance, that we reduce costs and thus make flying cheaper, and that we ultimately also do a favour, especially to the environment, because the 350,000 unnecessary flight hours that i have already mentioned can be eliminated.
we in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism are not very happy with the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, because the environment committee simply rejected the proposals we adopted by a large majority in the committee on transport.
we have always followed the principle in the eu that if there are already more advanced effective systems for protecting the environment and we set a minimum level at european level, the countries and groups that have more advanced systems do not have to go down with their level.
we have agreed by a large majority in the house on amendment no 11, which is to be included in the blokland report, and in which we want to make it clear that existing noise abatement systems, which are more efficient, may be maintained, so that european law does not mean a step backwards in environmental protection.
the directive is part of a strategy to combat noise pollution at airports and in the surrounding area - a real concern for the public.
the aim of the strategy is to achieve the use of quieter aircraft and to improve the environmental performance of noise-related fines.
the commissioner is right when she says that we have very different criteria for differentiating charges and for quantifying noise pollution from one member state to another.
the commission proposal is to force a flattening out of progress to the point where there is no longer any tangible incentive, and that cannot be our environmental and noise policy objective.
that is why my group has tabled three further amendments which make it clear that existing charging systems which have a higher environmental impact should be maintained.
we have started to reflect with you on the future of regional policy after 2006. i will propose, in due course, that the prevention of natural, technological and environmental risks should become a strong, almost unavoidable priority in future regional policy programmes after 2006. we see that the frequency of these disasters is increasing, although not all of them are as severe.
regional development cannot therefore be achieved without the prevention of natural, technological and environmental risks.
this is how the ecological challenge, the challenge of sustainable development, meets the regional policy which we have the responsibility to animate.
the purpose of this fund would be to help restore normal life to the community - i am thinking of repairing the energy, transport and telecommunications networks, rebuilding or constructing temporary accommodation - and to limit the damage by consolidating preventive infrastructure, such as dams and barrages.
there is a sustainable development plan for the danube, which preserves the lowland forests.
the environmental and financial impacts will not be visible until late 2003 and 2004. i specifically ask that the 50% advance payment of the eu area premium be paid quickly.
now, this is more of an economic argument than an environmental argument.
mr bowis has just pointed out that we are dealing with negligence, but also with criminal energy.
what if a waste disposal company simultaneously produces glucose syrup?
is it not the case that we should perhaps be suspicious if an irish company wants to dispose of its waste, which is not to be objected to, but does so in belgium and the waste disposer is at the same time producing glucose syrup?
the waste he disposes of is washed-off coats of birth control pills, which are naturally sugary.
what about the waste legislation?
yes, there is proper waste legislation.
but if we do not all realise that we have always turned a blind eye to cheap animal feed and cheap meat production, then we will continue to provide incentives for all waste, all sorts of waste that is no longer usable anywhere to be put into animal feed.
if there are people who are dumping toxic substances that need to be destroyed in food because it is cheaper, then this is evidence of criminal energy and must be punished accordingly.
mrs roth-behrendt has pointed out that waste legislation is closely linked to controls and must be linked to what we are discussing here, so that there is no overlapping.
i think it is irresponsible, for example, for dishonest pharmaceutical companies to dump hormone products in food and feed and use them as living waste bins for consumers.
embedding the informal system, accelerating the process of adult political education, that's what we need, a new culture of learning that secures sustainable development of the most precious resource we have, people and spirit.
in his speech in johannesburg, mugabe made the unspeakable claim that this practice, which denies the rule of law, is also a contribution to sustainable development.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european environmental policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food waste is not recycled.
what is suitable for human consumption and then left over is not just a waste product with all the consequences of treatment and disposal, but is also a waste product because no one wants to eat it or can eat it.
we know very well that food waste can be a carrier of animal diseases and animal diseases.
the commission is now invited to submit a proposal for the recovery of food waste by the end of 2004. i would like to confirm this request by asking that the existing possibility of preparing the dishwasher tank be taken into account.
the heating of foodstuffs is a sufficient measure to prevent disease and to make it possible to use them in a meaningful way, thus preventing additional waste tourism.
a firm commitment by the commission to draw up a directive on bio-waste, including kitchen and catering waste, by the end of 2004 must have as its main objective the definition of safe use, recovery and reuse.
we must also achieve this in the area of food waste.
the overall objective of this un agreement is to establish common rules for the transboundary movement of genetically modified organisms with the aim of achieving global protection of biodiversity and human health.
firstly, the obligation to notify exports of genetically modified organisms intended for deliberate release into the environment.
the protocol aims to avoid adverse effects on biodiversity and human health through international regulation of trade in live gmos.
the report by mr sjöstedt has, however, largely lost sight of this objective of preserving biodiversity.
i am convinced that gmos used in laboratories and not released into the environment do not pose a threat to biodiversity or human health.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
we need sensible and workable regulations to take advantage of the opportunities offered by biotechnology in third countries, while preserving biodiversity.
the proposal for a directive on environmental liability is also being debated in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market.
i have therefore decided to put forward a number of motions for separate votes to correct what i believe to be the incorrect vote by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
if we allow gmos which are not authorised within the eu to be exported to third countries for field trials - that is, for release into the environment - without any controls, we are acting irresponsibly.
i think that we as a parliament must set a milestone here with our vote and - as my predecessor has already said - make it clear that the protection of biodiversity is paramount, the protection of the population, but also the freedom of choice of the so-called third countries to which exports are made.
the resolution, adopted unanimously by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, criticises the commission for not having the right to exercise it now.
we need to work together on early warning systems, on research on environmental change, so that we can prepare ourselves and not be like the rabbit staring at the snake and waiting for it to happen, but rather deal with it early to see what can be prevented in the first place.
we have proposed an efficiency force which should be able to penetrate the entire bureaucratic mechanism so that we can act more quickly and get money where it is really needed, so that people, suffocated by bureaucratic waste, do not despair and say, looking back, 'we are not doing anything more'.
i welcome mrs schreyer's statement that the focus should be on sustainable development, and i hope that these deficits, i.e.
the unused funds which will now be used at n+2 next year, will be used to promote genuine sustainable development.
there are signs that projects are being supported again that are neither efficient nor sustainable, and i ask the commission to exercise its control functions here and to ensure that sustainable development in the budget becomes a reality.
the figure quoted by mrs gill on renewable energy only regards a special initiative.
the total figure for what we do in the field of energy also, especially with regard to renewable energy in development cooperation, is much bigger.
i would also point out that in johannesburg we launched the energy initiative together with the member states.
we have backed this up by the information that, in total, member states and the commission have an annual level of spending for energy-related development activities of about eur 0.7 billion.
but the other priorities - sustainable development, security - will also be reinforced by redistribution within the house, within the services and between the services.
this means that, according to the commission's proposal, which we can then also implement administratively ourselves, 149 additional posts will be made available for the priority 'sustainable development'.
the proposal now provides for an increase of 33 posts in the directorate-general for environmental protection, together with the enlargement departments.
i am here as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and as a shadow.
all the areas on which i have questions have already been raised by him or by other colleagues who have dealt with agricultural policy and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
this is the question that has been coming up again and again since 1994. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy calls for 'no more tobacco subsidies!'.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we must finally get used to the fact that we have to make an eu economic policy that meets employment policy objectives and pursue a modern eu employment policy that ensures sustainable and high-quality growth for everyone.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection.
the danish presidency - the danish minister for the environment - attached great importance to maintaining close contact with the participants in the european parliament.
as a leading actor, we were to promote the views expressed at the previous council meetings of environment, development and foreign affairs ministers and in seville.
the decision to hold the summit was taken by the un general assembly in the autumn of 2000, the same year that the millennium summit adopted the eight millennium development goals for poverty reduction by 2015. the mandate for johannesburg from the general assembly included identifying new challenges and opportunities for sustainable development, as well as policies and means to support developing countries and countries with economies in transition in their efforts.
we defined poverty reduction as essential for sustainable development in a context that includes both the increase in wealth and access to clean drinking water, sanitation, energy, better health and equality.
we established a number of concrete and time-bound targets in the areas of poverty, health, the environment and natural resources.
among the most important is the objective of halving the proportion of people without access to basic sanitation facilities by 2015. it should be seen as complementary to the millennium development goal of halving the proportion of people without access to safe drinking water by 2015. in addition, objectives were adopted to restore and regulate fish stocks to ensure sustainable fishing by 2015, to ensure an absolute minimum of risks and adverse effects on health and the environment from the production of chemicals by 2020, and to significantly reduce biodiversity loss by 2010. in addition, an agreement was reached to establish a 10-year framework programme for sustainable production and consumption, which addresses the crucial issue of the decoupling of economic growth from environmental degradation.
the most difficult negotiations were undoubtedly on the renewable energy target.
because of the opposition of the united states, japan and the opec countries in particular, no specific target was adopted, but we were given an objective of increasing the global share of renewable energy as soon as possible.
it is worth noting, however, that for the first time we have succeeded in getting such a strong statement in favour of renewable energy at an international summit.
in addition, at the summit, a number of eu countries took the initiative to jointly raise additional voluntary contributions of approximately usd 80 million to raise the global environment facility to the level of usd 3 billion originally targeted for replenishment.
it was agreed that national sustainability strategies - which could be formulated as poverty strategies - should be ready for implementation by 2005. i should also add that the indigenous peoples were also mentioned in the declaration.
the eu also launched two new ambitious initiatives in the priority areas of water and energy, namely the so-called 'water for life' and 'energy for poverty alleviation and sustainable development'.
the momentum for more effective implementation of the sustainable development agenda was created in johannesburg.
there was a clear message from companies that they have a responsibility in their investment and production to local communities and to the environment.
the presidency will attach great importance to the effective follow-up of both the internal and global dimensions of the eu's commitments to the implementation of sustainable development.
in this context, we have a special obligation to follow up our own initiatives on water and energy.
– mr president, we welcome this opportunity to present the commission's assessment of the outcome of the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg concluded three weeks ago.
we succeeded in adding new momentum to the cause of sustainable development and the outcomes of the summit take us in the right direction.
now it has come to be seen as a defining moment in the fight for sustainable development.
most importantly, the political climate in 2002 is very different from ten years ago.
against a difficult political backdrop it fell largely to the european union to champion the cause of sustainable development in johannesburg.
in preparing for the summit, the commission issued two specific communications, one in february 2001 entitled 'ten years after rio: preparing for the world summit on sustainable development in 2002' and a second communication in february 2002 entitled: 'towards a global partnership for sustainable development'.
building upon these communications the council adopted several sets of conclusions in 2001 and 2002 in which the european union's negotiating platform for the world summit on sustainable development was defined.
second, a commitment to minimise harmful effects on human health and the environment from the production and use of all chemicals by 2020. third, a commitment to halt the decline of fish stocks and restore them to sustainable levels no later than 2015. fourth, a commitment to begin implementation of national strategies on sustainable development by 2005. fifth, a commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010, as earlier agreed by the parties to the biodiversity convention.
the agreement to establish a ten-year framework for programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with industrialised countries taking the lead in this global effort, is another important result.
on globalisation, as has been said, the summit agreed on concrete actions to enhance the role of trade for sustainable development, for example by encouraging trade in environmentally friendly and organic products from developing countries and by strengthening international action for corporate responsibility.
the eu’s objectives on energy were addressed in the council presidency conclusions of 30 may 2002, in which the eu reaffirmed its commitment to facilitating the achievement of the millennium development goal of halving the number of people in extreme poverty, and other millennium development goals, by 2015, through the provision of adequate, affordable and sustainable energy services.
in line with its general position in favour of a focused and result-oriented implementation plan, the european union also supported, among other things, the establishment of a quantitative, time-bound target to increase the proportion of renewable energy within the overall energy mix.
although we were ultimately not able to get a specific target for renewable energy sources in the action plan, we did reach an agreement to increase urgently and substantially the global share of renewable energy sources.
we also agreed to take joint actions to improve the access of the poor to energy.
in addition, the european union launched a 'coalition of the willing' on renewable energy.
this includes countries and regions willing to set themselves targets and timeframes for the increase of renewables in the energy mix.
this coalition maintains pressure on the unwilling, and should give a boost to the development of renewable energy throughout the world.
significantly, this coalition will set a renewable energy target representing a floor as opposed to a ceiling.
linked to this, there have been positive developments on climate change.
as commissioner for the environment, i shared with poul nielson (commissioner for development) the responsibility as chef de file in the preparations for johannesburg.
as commissioner wallström said, we are in a different political climate than in 1992. it is almost as if ngos and the group of 77 had given up expecting constructive multilateralism from the united states; as if the us is not part of the equation for sustainable development.
that attitude is not possible in the negotiation rooms, where the us, of course, is a real player, as we could see when the us and opec members joined forces in resisting targets on renewable energy.
sustainable development remains the core objective of the johannesburg political declaration, and this gives us a coherent framework for implementing the outcome of all major un conferences.
it is a step forward that the summit explicitly prioritised fighting poverty in pursuing targets such as access to energy, water and sanitation, and equitable sharing of the benefits of biodiversity.
the european commission will focus on securing strong eu implementation of the two eu-wide partnerships on water and energy launched in johannesburg.
the european council has already agreed to review, at its spring meeting in 2003, the eu strategy for sustainable development, with a focus on putting into practice the commitments undertaken in johannesburg.
to prepare this review, the commission intends to submit proposals building on the communication 'towards a global partnership for sustainable development' issued earlier this year.
internally, one of the main issues to be addressed in the synthesis report for next spring's european council should be how to move towards more sustainable consumption and production patterns in the eu.
(applause)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
i am speaking as the author of the opinion on the european climate change programme.
i would like to speak about this 42-point climate action programme, with regard to the ten points that should be implemented in the next two years.
the committee on industry, research and energy has welcomed this programme as a whole, because we believe that the measures taken by the member states alone are not enough.
but there can be no doubt that the responsibility for meeting the climate change objectives lies first and foremost with the signatory states of the kyoto protocol, and therefore also with the member states of the european union, that burden sharing is a voluntary agreement within the european union and that the measures proposed by the commission and supported by parliament must not run counter to these objectives.
two proposals are available: firstly, biofuels, which are expensive, and secondly, emissions trading.
on emissions trading, the industry committee has strongly called for a voluntary experimental phase, rather than a mandatory one, to be introduced by 2008. i think that this objective, these considerations, must be seen from the point of view of industrial policy.
i believe that it is a common responsibility for all of us not to lose sight of the industrial policy objectives and the competitiveness of our economy, despite all the need, despite all the support for a meaningful european climate change programme.
and of course, if you want to push sustainable development around the world, it's about reducing poverty, it's about social cohesion in many countries around the world, because that's the basic building block of sustainable development, of environmentally friendly behavior.
i think that needs to be said very clearly, especially when you look at how the european union, as the driving force behind this summit, has tried to put the right questions on the table and also to address the right objectives for the implementation of sustainable development.
this is also true of the question of sustainable development.
the third finger is certainly pointing to the question of sustainable policies in our own activities.
how are we managing to make transport and households sustainable in the european union?
that is why the climate change programme we are discussing here is an important building block for combining the environmental policy's rationale with economic efficiency and social justice.
i thank mrs hulthén for her excellent report on climate change.
while we can't say that this particular flood was already an effect of climate change, we all know that such events are going to increase if we don't act fast now.
that is why the european climate change programme is important, but the concrete measures proposed by the commission so far are not ambitious enough.
the commission's proposal on emissions trading is only one part of a wider strategy.
we're still waiting for the energy efficiency proposal on appliances.
it is about the abolition of subsidies which are harmful to the environment and the climate.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a carbon neutral tax on all non-carbon trading activities.
i think that the commission should be aware of the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
this time, however, there was a real decision in the area of sustainability and the severely handicapped fisheries sector.
without internal security, neither stable government nor sustainable development can be achieved.
we strongly believe that multilateral arrangements and conventions, the un, the g8, the osce and others are the key to tackling the security, development and environmental problems which confront the world.
whilst we fully support palestinian elections and the need for palestinian people to elect their own leadership, we continue to caution against elections if the legal, administrative and logistic framework for elections, including the political environment, is not in place.
but the construction of the dual structures that are now being preached in such a grand way - which has nothing to do with the actors at the top doing excellent work - costs money and 80 per cent of the energy goes into the infight instead of developing european positions outward.
– mr president, i should like to congratulate the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and in particular the rapporteur, mr callanan, for the general support in their report.
the commission's proposal to modify the recreational craft directive aims to avoid fragmentation of the internal market and seeks to integrate environmental concerns.
as such, this proposal provides a good example of the synergy that is needed between environmental and industrial policies for the achievement of sustainable development.
air and water pollution and engine noise from recreational boating activities have become increasingly sensitive issues.
while exhaust emissions from recreational craft contribute little to the overall pollution of the marine environment, their local effects are nevertheless important.
i share with mr callanan the hope that the amendments that are adopted will deal appropriately with the need for harmonised reduction of exhaust and noise emissions, while at the same time avoiding over-regulation.
in conclusion, the commission can accept the first part of amendment 1 and amendments 6, 14 and 21. on the contrary the commission cannot accept amendments 1, second part, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15 to 20 and 22 to 24. the commission is looking forward to working with parliament and the council towards a solution which on the one hand guarantees a high level of environmental protection and on the other hand meets the requirements of the internal market.
this morning we had a three-hour debate on sustainable development.
the initiative aims to achieve the sustainable development goals of the world summit on access to clean water and sanitation.
unfortunately, those who oppose advanced technology include colleagues from political groups and countries who are always at the forefront of environmental and water protection and who cannot go far enough.
the aim is to combat poverty in a sustainable way by means of greater economic exchange and ultimately to contribute to improving the income situation of the acp population.
in recent months it has been engaged in a very active dialogue with the acp states, offering them proposals for their sustainable development, including technical assistance.
the opinion of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy - titley report - is essentially in line with our ideas.
on behalf of my colleagues in the csu - who, like myself, voted in favour of stricter limit values - i would like to emphasize that we have missed an opportunity to limit the pollution of rivers by pleasure boats for many years.
in this respect, the relationship between trade, environmental protection and development, as reflected in the european agricultural policy, is often overestimated.
disruptions in agricultural markets affect only a few products and should therefore be monitored in the light of their impact on sustainable development.
the wto can no longer avoid the protection of consumers, the environment, animal welfare standards.
that is why the resolution calls on the member states to present as soon as possible - let us say by the end of this year - an action plan on how to achieve this objective, so that we can actually have results by july 2004. so you see - and i thank all the colleagues from the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy who have been here - that we are referring to the decision and the voluntary implementation of this decision, but at the time and for the purpose that we have set.
as for the budgetary burden, we know that it is sustainable until 2006 because it is included in berlin's financial perspective.
it must be understood that without a deep and intelligent reform of the institutions, the success of enlargement risks not being sustainable.
i would like to begin by thanking the president of the commission and commissioner verheugen for the commitment and energy they have shown from the outset in this historic task.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i do not therefore think that there is any inconsistency in accepting the priority requested by the council, since the possibility for the commission to intervene in other scenarios - ecological, environmental or technological disasters - would be preserved, in some very limited cases.
we have deliberately avoided natural disasters, environmental disasters, technological disasters.
as regards the availability of the funds allocated, i am speaking as rapporteur of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism for the period of two years to ensure the reconstruction of destroyed infrastructure and equipment in the fields of energy, water, waste water, telecommunications, transport, health and education at short notice.
on the other hand, we would have to work through three complex areas of work if we were to be able to do something here that is sustainable for the future.
- the next item is the report (a5-0303/2002) by mr moreira da silva, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community and amending council directive 96/61/ec (com (2001) 581 - c5-0578/2001 - 2001/0245 (cod)).
the commissioner has indicated at the outset that climate action in the european union is not yet sufficient.
but i also say that if you look at the overall picture of emissions in the european union, you find that some are already doing a pretty good job of reducing greenhouse gases and some are not.
so we should not be putting a straitjacket on structures that have successfully reduced co2 and other greenhouse gases.
more flexibility: in my region, i know a company that has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 27% since 1990. why on earth should this company be involved in the emissions trading system if it says for business reasons that we do not want it?
the opt-in option contained in the proposal of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is also entirely satisfactory to me, the opt-out option not because the two are not parallel, but because the opt-out option has a limit of 31.12.2007. i therefore propose that the conditions be kept the same, so that when someone leaves, they are not free to do so, but must meet the same emission reductions as if they were still in the country, but leave out the limitation to 2007. i would therefore like to promote motion no 81. the second area is fair conditions.
if you combine the two, flexibility and fair conditions, you can say with a good heart: yes to climate protection through emissions trading, but with flexible and fair conditions.
the majority in this group has a different view, but i am speaking for the epp group, and the epp group supports the moreira da silva report in its main points as voted on by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
climate protection is one of the biggest challenges of the next few decades.
we should stop making a distinction between economics and climate change.
the terrible flooding in germany and neighbouring countries has made it clear that there is also great economic damage if we do not take action to protect the climate.
of course, this flood was not yet clearly an effect of climate change - that is what scholars argue - but they no longer argue that we must do something to prevent such disasters in the future.
that was the motto under which we worked, and i believe that the major weaknesses of the commission's proposal have in fact been largely eliminated by the report of the committee on the environment.
it's just not understandable in germany, the uk, finland and other countries that have already done something, that you're being punished for getting started early on climate action.
so it's important that we have the base year and the recognition of prior performance, because then the companies that have done something can be properly rewarded, and then they have a chance to benefit from greenhouse gas emission allowance trading.
there are other improvements - mr lange mentioned this - that if you close a plant and destroy jobs, you cannot be rewarded for doing so as a climate change measure.
indeed, it is more difficult to avoid co2 emissions in lime and cement production than in other sectors, and this must be taken into account without compromising the overall objective.
emissions trading is a market economy instrument for climate protection and, as a believer in the market economy, i am in favour of the moreira da silva report and ask my colleagues to support it.
i thank the honourable members because, commissioner wallström, what your authority has put forward does not meet the quality standards necessary to promote environmental protection at european level.
fair conditions not only because some member states of the european union have already made substantial contributions and others have not, but also because of the competitive relevance of this emissions trading.
here all sorts of colleagues have commented on the us, the bad guys in the us, then that it is actually an energy tax.
it is a bureaucratic monster, totally ineffective in environmental policy, and it cannot be attributed to kyoto and justified, because kyoto, mrs wallström, kyoto was signed by the member states.
the kyoto protocol contains six greenhouse gases, you have only one.
the kyoto protocol is in effect from 2008 to 2012. they will start to make emissions trading compulsory as early as 2005. the kyoto protocol has at least three instruments.
now all 15 member states of the european union have committed themselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8% each.
this burden-sharing provides for germany, for example, to participate very strongly with minus 21%, while portugal, for example, is allowed to increase by 27% on the basis of 1990. this is a very fair and responsible story, and if germany and the united kingdom are the only countries which have achieved success without this bureaucratic monster of emissions trading, as the commission has proposed, then you cannot punish them by saying: those who have done it voluntarily must now be punished in addition for having already achieved success.
first, we already have an emissions trading system.
i would also point out that european competition law still applies to emissions trading and that the commission can always intervene in the market - despite kyoto - if it believes that competition is being distorted.
this emissions trading is actually opening up a new era in our economy, because emissions - in this case co2 - are getting a price.
mr langen should not forget that we live in a single market and the functioning of the single market is not designed to turn out the lights in europe, but that we are trying to create an environmentally compatible, sustainable economic growth in the interests of employment and saving the environment.
i think it is therefore very right that the commission has taken note of the fact that there are already member states which are trading in emissions and there are already member states - as has been said several times today - which have made progress in reducing co2.
this is important from the investment point of view, because we do not have a harmful ex ante burden on companies and, moreover, emissions trading does not act as a tax.
this means that companies have the necessary resources to carry out research and development and to use energy-saving, low-emission processes.
the objective of a balanced budget, the middle of a cycle, must therefore always be seen against the background of the cyclical environment.
secondly, i think it would be foolish to waste these advantages today.
if, despite the european single market, it is still the national premise to gain location advantages within the european union - and this is possible because there is no sufficiently coordinated economic, fiscal and social policy - then the basic conditions for sustainable european growth simply do not exist.
reform of the stability pact must be accompanied by increased coordination of european economic, social, employment, tax and environmental policies in order to stimulate investment.
but that does not mean that all the social, economic or environmental problems of the world can be solved by granting asylum.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following three reports by mrs rosemarie müller, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy: - a5-0330/2002 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council (com (2001) 404 - c5-0591/2001 - 2001/0252 (cod)) establishing community procedures for the authorisation, supervision and pharmacovigilance of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products; - a5-0340/2002 by mrs françoise grossetête, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2001/83/ec on the community code relating to medicinal products for human use; - a5-0334/2002 by mrs françoise grossetête, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/82/ec on the community code relating to veterinary medicinal products (com (2001) 404 - c5-0593/2001 - 2001/0254 (cod)) i call commissioner liikanen to speak.
i am very grateful to the rapporteur and to the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for including our suggestions in their reports.
we can list in the regulation as many processing times as we want - without competition the data is waste!
a number of issues have been identified as being of major importance for the sustainability of agriculture and rural development.
the project 'smes in border regions' is to be joined by the project 'smes and enlargement' and - at least some social democrats have made a firm commitment to this - we want a project that helps smes to implement the concept 'social responsibility in enterprises - a business contribution to sustainable development'.
concerning the regulation of contents of tobacco products, the text released by the chair for further discussion does not set harmonised standards but provides for each party to adopt and implement standards as recommended by the conference of the parties, including standards and best practices for testing and measuring the content and emissions of such products.
the final text of the convention is expected to be ready in march 2003. should this provision become a part of the final text of the framework convention, and considering the timetable foreseen for the establishment of the conference of the parties, it is indeed possible that such recommendations could be produced by 2007. the commission believes that the adoption of common standards for the regulation of the content of tobacco products and emissions and the adoption of common rules for measurement methods are essential measures to be taken by all parties to the convention.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we expect positive effects in a wide range of areas: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all their activities, including the development of the internal market, the establishment of more efficient public administrations, stronger judicial systems, better protection of minorities, effective prevention of crime, especially international crime, stricter controls on illegal immigration, closer monitoring of products in circulation, especially food safety, and finally stricter standards for the protection of the environment.
our trade, financial, environmental policies will have more weight; europe will be better able to defend human rights and work to reduce the gap between the north and the south of the world.
if we can unite loyally and speak with one voice, we can make a difference on issues such as climate change and managing the impact of globalisation.
i am aware that some of the present member states have expressed reservations about the budgetary sustainability of these proposals and have asked for additional guarantees.
i would like to mention the energy problem only in passing, although it is equally important.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
no, we cannot, but for the same reason we must continue the struggle with renewed energy.
poverty and environmental degradation do not cause or justify terrorism.
but that's not consumer-friendly or environmentally sustainable.
consumers need flexibility in their travel plans and, from an environmental point of view, half-empty airplanes are not practical.
the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
sustainable agricultural policy, land reform and rural development are important policy challenges for developing countries' autonomy.
let me conclude by mentioning three facts: we need production for self-sufficiency, for export on cleared land, we need better employment, we need sustainable management, and we should think of new ways.
a5-0324/2002 by mr beysen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision (com (2001) 775 - c5-0111/2002 - 2001/0311 (cod)) amending decision 1254/96/ec establishing a series of guidelines for transeuropean networks in the energy sector.
firstly, the commissioner has made it clear that this decision is in line with the whole area of energy market opening, so it is a contribution to what is currently before the council.
and as regards the whole energy market opening package, i must say again that we have done our homework in time.
secondly, i think it is right that the commission has proposed - and we should really decide this way - that projects of strategic importance in the field of transeuropean energy networks should be given special attention.
the third point: unlike transport networks, industry and companies generally make real money on energy networks.
after the terrible floods in germany and neighbouring countries, there was already the expectation that the climate problem would finally be solved in johannesburg, and at that time it was said that a different agenda was planned.
we must also remember that kyoto is only a first step, and that is why we are very clear in our resolution that there must be equal rights for all citizens in the end, and that means basically that per capita emissions should be the same everywhere in the world.
in view of the recent debate in germany on emissions trading, it must be remembered that in germany too all parties agree that we need to reduce emissions by 80% - i repeat, minus 80% - by 2050 in the long term, and if we are already arguing so vigorously against this, if a first step is to be taken, then i actually see no end in sight for this long-term goal.
we must insist in the wto that we can keep certain products out of the european market if they are produced in a way that further destroys the climate.
the european parliament has adopted a clear position on emissions trading by a very large majority.
climate policy is a process that will take us into the 21st century, and i hope that europe will continue to take a leading role in this.
we have not only kyoto, but also other issues - i am thinking of the international monetary fund, fiscal policy, global credit policy, environmental policy and trade policy - more and more global processes that are actually determined only by the executive.
third remark: the policy of reducing co2 also other greenhouse gas emissions, but above all co2 is always mentioned as renewable energy.
only if we go to new delhi will we come to a country that gets well over 50% of its energy from coal.
this means that if we want to have a climate policy, we need an active coal policy.
this should be mentioned in the same breath as renewable energy, because 80% of our energy worldwide is still derived from fossil fuels.
and the last point: i think climate policy also gives us an opportunity to build a new relationship with developing countries, through emissions trading.
it was the commission itself that carried out a very interesting study in seville at its institute, also with a view to 2030, which states that in 2030 emissions trading with asia will amount to about 80 billion euros.
so we must create a system so that those who cause pollution can be held accountable according to the polluter principle.
on the risks that a significant percentage of gm seeds may be released out of control into the environment, i would first say that it is paramount that any threshold should take account of the protection of human health and, importantly, in the case of seeds, the environment.
as detailed in the article, the objective of this is to allow the possible effects of these gmos on the environment to be monitored.
the commission is actively pursuing such work before considering possible options to ensure the viability of conventional and organic farming and their sustainable coexistence with gm crops.
i too have complained on several occasions in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection that the seed-trading regulation is being pushed so far in the comitology procedure.
the commission's draft proposes thresholds for gmos which do not pose risks to the environment and consumers and which can therefore be grown commercially in the eu.
you said here too that there is an unavoidable pollution.
we must not capitulate to pollution, which cannot exist if the policy is to be followed, because then we cannot release products, no seeds, which cause such great pollution.
there can be no doubt that we in the presidency are going to do this with all our energy and with a tireless determination to achieve results.
it offers the possibility of a sustainable, harmonious and at the same time policy-oriented development of the union as a whole.
a number of parliament's proposals have been incorporated into the text, including the possibility of taking environmental and social considerations into account when awarding public contracts.
he also agrees with the schutzklausel, the guarantee clause in the accession treaties about the internal market in its widest sense, encompassing energy, transport and so on, not just the areas under my portfolio.
a few days ago in lisbon a representative of the commission spoke on the subject of emsa - the european maritime safety agency - and also raised the concept of a european environmental coast guard.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
but out there, we are pushing more and more fish stocks into catastrophic states through environmental disasters and overfishing.
we should start by fixing our own environment, and we should do it now.
we are talking about the precautionary principle, and cuts, painful as they may be, are probably necessary to ensure the sustainable management of fish stocks and thus the long-term survival of the fisheries as a whole.
as a member of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, i would like to see the committees involved in the negotiations be involved in a fairer and more intensive way in the next concrete discussions on the outcome of the negotiations.
they have integrated the sustainability area everywhere, which we have always called for.
if we look at the so-called leftovers - that is, what you have brought over from 2002 - these are, for example, some of the items raised by mrs schörling, mrs frassoni and others, from my area of work, namely environmental policy - we can mention chemicals policy, pvc, the battery directive, but also other things.
they have the conflict between environmental, industrial and commercial policies, and often also between consumer protection and commercial policy.
as regards the question of the relationship between international agreements on the environment and the wto framework, in johannesburg it was a non-event and nothing new happened: nothing was added to wto, nothing was subtracted.
the hard core of follow-up actions for the european union to johannesburg will be our water and energy initiatives.
the need for russia to ratify the kyoto protocol and the energy charter was also stressed.
in addition, the summit endorsed progress reports on the energy discussions and on the concept of a common european economic space.
the eu pressed russia to confirm expectations of early russian ratification of the kyoto protocol and to commit itself to conclude a long-delayed agreement on the clean-up of nuclear waste in north-west russia, the multilateral nuclear environmental programme in the russian federation (mnepr).
i would also like to thank the danish presidency and my colleagues on the environment, public health and consumer affairs committees and the agriculture and rural development committees.
- the report (a5-0365/2002) by mr nistico, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2001/83/ec as regards traditional herbal medicinal products (com (2002) 1 - c5-0026/2002 - 2002/0008 (cod)).
– mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr nisticò, as well as the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, for the work and effort they have put into this report.
thirdly, to create a clear and favourable environment for the mainly small and medium-sized companies working in this sector.
- the next item is the report (a5-0359/2002) by mrs damião, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission on life sciences and biotechnology - a strategy for europe (com (2002) 27 final - c5-0260/2002 - 2002/2123 (cos)).
it affects, or can even transform, broad areas such as healthcare, environmental protection, agriculture and food and industrial production processes.
the basic prerequisite is the creation of an effective, predictable and stable regulatory environment for both agriculture and the biotech industry in europe.
the report even says that genetic engineering can contribute to sustainable development, and i would like to emphasize this point.
biotechnology will also help us to achieve sustainable development, and i agree with mr liese on this point.
many of these aid measures concern industry, the energy sector, transport or agriculture.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to the detriment of the environment.
it is obvious that these transport ministers have forgotten that the regulation on compensation for oil pollution liability, for example, which has passed the commission and parliament, has been on the table for over a year in the council, which has not yet acted.
the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that there has been an ecological disaster, a catastrophe which we should have avoided, which we should have avoided if the commission's proposals had come into force.
i would like to see the commission and the council agreeing to the need for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
secondly, if we want to do justice to lisbon and gothenburg, we must no longer do without the environmental dimension.
we must use the full potential of environmental policy to make it available for training and employment.
i am not saying this only in the field of economic and employment policy, but also in the field of social policy and environmental policy.
it would be important if we could actually make it clear that certain economic and employment policy or environmental policy decisions in one member state also harm or benefit the economy and labour markets and the environment in another eu country, halt development, freeze it or even help it, and it would be necessary for statistical data to be able to provide us with the relevant information.
the council decided to add a third dimension to the economic and employment dimension, namely the environmental dimension.
i cannot understand why the commission refuses to include environmental objectives.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has in fact taken a contradictory decision in its report.
at the same time, the environment committee proposes in paragraph 4 that the significant quantities of irradiated products in some member states should be included in the positive list if this technology can increase the safety of certain foods.
i hope that tomorrow we will reach a decision in the interests of consumer protection so that the commission and the council can begin their work and that we will also make the report of the committee on the environment a little clearer in its contradictions and arrive at a clear position which will then also be a basis for the further work of the council and the commission.
disease control can no longer be seen as a means of safeguarding livestock or certain commercial interests, but must also take account of the changing lifestyles of the population, their mobility and the changing attitudes towards the environment and animal welfare.
the other political priorities for the 2003 budget, welcomed by parliament and the council, are 'stability and security' and 'sustainable and integrated economic development'.
the budget for the environment directorate-general is thus increased by 14%, and specific funds are allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises in border regions to strengthen their competitiveness.
the budget of the directorate-general for research and the joint research centre is a combined eur 3 billion in 2003. this underlines the importance of sustainable and integrated economic development.
for this difference of a quarter - the sum of 100 billion euros - we will achieve that on the european continent there is cooperation in the field of the environment, in the field of research and development, in the field of cohesion, that we do not leave the weak behind.
monitoring should be targeted at detecting illegal treatment of animals and at controlling compliance with the maximum residue limits for veterinary medicinal products, the maximum levels for pesticides and the maximum levels set in relevant legislation covering environmental contaminants.
it is considered that such missions would be a waste of valuable resources at this moment as 100% testing is in place for poultrymeat from brazil and thailand and for shrimps from thailand.
many people have asked me over the last year and a half: "why are you doing this, you electronic waste in europe?
the point is simply that we in the european union decided a few years ago that we wanted to pursue sustainable economic, environmental and social policies.
six million tons of electronic waste every year contains a huge amount of valuable components that we want to reuse in the future.
this individual responsibility is the first step towards a truly sustainable environmental policy, in line with the packaging regulation and the high-end car regulation, and i can only strongly support this in conjunction with economic policy.
i would have liked it if we had been more aggressive in the debate on cars and electronic waste and had debated more about how we can encourage a greater flow of secondary raw materials in the future.
but i think this would be a motivating tool to really bring sustainability here.
i therefore consider this a very great success not only for the environment but also for consumer protection.
i think it is also essential that in future the consumer can be more confident that the prices are true to the environment and that the consumer does not have to buy new hardware with every new software program.
the eu's energy policy is based on the principle of the free movement of goods, services and capital.
the rules on the single european sky provide the basis for fewer cancellations and shorter flight times for the benefit of passengers, the environment and airlines.
we must convince europeans that, united, we all win, and i am not just thinking of the material benefits of shared prosperity and sustainable development in the world's largest market; i think in political terms too: we all win because we are citizens of a democratic and responsible union.
the preparations for accession will continue with energy and vigour in the coming year.
it must now work with all its energy to complete reforms and put them into practice.
i would also like to personally thank the president of the european council, mr rasmussen, but also the minister for europe, our former colleague, mr bertel haarder, the deputy prime minister, mr ben bendtsen, who has done a great deal for the energy market, and of course foreign minister per stig møller.
for the european union as a whole, we spend about 100 billion a year on our work in the fields of research funding, economic welfare, solidarity with others, youth, environmental protection, transport, the common foreign and security policy, and domestic and judicial policy.
i have received from the commission a proposal for a regulation introducing specific measures to compensate spanish fishermen and the shellfish and aquaculture sectors affected by oil pollution following the sinking of the prestige.
i would like to join all the members who have underlined the extraordinary work done by mrs pack and the energy she has put into it over many years to keep going and finally get it done.
the introduction of economic and social cohesion policy, consumer protection and environmental policy into the treaty, all of which are intended to accompany and balance opening-up and liberalisation strategies, is an example.
the sectoral legislation adopted at community level for large network industries, particularly energy, has very ambitious objectives in terms of public services and quality.