for what is now needed i offer my skills and energy.
- mr president, public procurement policy is a very important means of steering social development in a sustainable direction.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the use of energy is taken into account.
the eu has some great environmental and social objectives, but if we do not integrate these objectives into all eu legislation, we will not get very far, and we will not get anywhere.
the public sector must be able to impose environmental requirements on the products it buys, and it is particularly important to emphasise that it must be able to impose requirements on products throughout their life cycle.
we have tried to include the social and environmental aspects in a number of amendments.
the ozone layer is a particular problem.
the ozone layer is too thin in the upper atmosphere for the problems it causes, including health problems, and the concentration is too high down here on earth.
together with the directive on national emission ceilings, for which mrs riita myller, who is sitting next to me, was rapporteur, this directive makes an important contribution to ensuring a lower ozone concentration in europe and especially in europe's large cities.
i think it is good that we have a starting point in the who's assessments of the existing health and environmental risks.
i also think it is good that the member states are not only obliged to draw up specific programmes for the objectives, but that there are also obligations to inform the citizens about the programmes being drawn up and the results achieved - both positive and negative results, just as we have rules for when the citizens must be informed of problems of excessive concentration of ozone - both citizens in general, but also citizens belonging to groups which are particularly sensitive to problems in this area.
i hope that this directive will help us to prevent and reduce the harmful effects on human health and on plant growth of excessively high concentrations of ozone and that today will be a good day for the future of air quality in europe.
i can support the conclusions in general and i would particularly like to call for us to create new opportunities for development in the european fisheries sector by integrating environmental considerations into the common fisheries policy.
we must therefore say that there is no scientific basis today for saying that industrial fishing has a negative impact on the marine environment.
we voted against the report because of its emphasis on environmental issues and transparency.
- mr president, the bourgeois government of my home country denmark has today appointed an internationally recognized plasterer, a mr lomborg, as head of the government's so-called institute for environmental assessment, thus taking a major step towards abolishing all sustainable development.
for example, the integrated transport system programme is claimed to be environmentally beneficial, but the development of the eu motorway network alone since the adoption of the maastricht treaty 10 years ago has resulted in a 15% increase in traffic-related co2 emissions, and this is completely independent of the policy decisions on reducing overall emissions.
the summit programme represents everything but sustainable development, and not just from the environmental perspective.
what about the economic and social sustainability of this world?
it is not just the environment that is being sacrificed, it is the vast majority of the world's population.
- mr president, it was a very important step forward that we made in gothenburg with the adoption of a comprehensive strategy for sustainable development, which also included the environmental dimension in the lisbon strategy.
i think that the challenges of the environment have been insufficiently addressed in the spanish presidency's work programme and also in the commission's outline for the summit.
we in the committee on the environment have tried to remedy some of these shortcomings with the proposals which are to be debated tomorrow in this house.
i think it is important to tighten up the cardiff strategy on environmental integration, so that we have clear targets and clear timetables for implementing the strategy.
it is also important that we have systematic sustainability assessments of all policy initiatives in the union.
it is of enormous importance that in the new reforms in the agricultural and fisheries sectors we also take account of environmental and sustainability requirements in relation to the enlargement aspect.
firstly, could the commission explain to the honourable members that there is also a sustainable development in employment and that when we say that we want a good working environment and good health and safety regulations, we are really talking about a sustainable labour market in which people are not excluded.
mr bushill-matthews will also agree with me that it is actually the most economically sustainable thing in the long run that we do not have a whole lot of people sitting on the "back bench".
my only objection is that, since the majority of the world's biodiversity is found in tropical areas of the developing countries, i would have liked to see the development aspect given a little more prominence in the report.
paragraph 49 requires the eu to support measures aimed at encouraging indigenous peoples to manage and conserve biodiversity.
i have tabled an amendment which changes the wording to support the role of the eu in the conservation and management of biodiversity, which is already played by indigenous peoples through their traditional knowledge.
in some developing countries, there is a clear need to be able to reap economic benefits from the sustainable exploitation of wildlife if the population is to have an incentive to conserve stocks.
in southern africa, elephant populations have become so large that they are destroying biodiversity, and in the economic situation of the countries, it is completely unreasonable that they cannot make a living from their elephants.
biodiversity is being lost today at an unprecedented rate, yet nothing has really happened since rio.
biodiversity has become a concept that is being put on the back burner, and it is now our task to try to keep it on the agenda.
to tackle the issue of conservation, it is necessary to protect the entire ecosystem.
i support most of the content of the report and am pleased that the commission is prepared to propose transitional arrangements for waste water treatment.
- (da) unfortunately, we have to say that the member states do not properly comply with environmental legislation, and this is to the detriment of the environment.
however, we voted against the two reports on the protection of the environment through criminal law today because we want this expansion of the possibilities for sanctions and the protection of the environment to be achieved through the approximation of criminal rules under the third pillar.
- (da) unfortunately, we have to say that the member states do not properly comply with environmental legislation, and this is to the detriment of the environment.
however, we voted against the two reports on the protection of the environment through criminal law today because we want this expansion of the possibilities for sanctions and the protection of the environment to be achieved through the approximation of criminal rules under the third pillar.
– mr president, on waste electrical and electronic equipment, the commission can accept amendments nos 9, 11 to 19, 24, 27 to 37, 39, 40, 43, 44, 45, 50, 57, 65, 76 and 77. in amendment no 23, the commission supports the new paragraph 1 and paragraph 1(b), last subparagraph in full and paragraph 1(b), third and fourth subparagraphs, as well as paragraph 2 in principle.
i think that all those who are concerned with ensuring a better working environment for european workers have reason to be satisfied.
they are doing so because, in my view, they are quite incapable of pursuing a proper foreign policy, that is, a sustainable foreign policy capable of preventing crises and preventing war.
the eu, on the other hand, has shown its ability to engage in multilateral contacts and thus also has the capacity to lay the foundations for a more sustainable foreign policy.
the johannesburg world conference provides us with a unique opportunity to set an agenda for sustainable development for the next 10 years.
ten years ago in rio a clear sustainable development agenda was set, but nevertheless, since then, progress has been largely in the opposite direction.
the use of natural resources is increasing every day, man-made climate change is unabated, and every day species of animals and plants are disappearing forever.
a global agreement should be drawn up with a concrete work programme for sustainable development over the next several years with some precise targets and some precise deadlines.
we should decouple economic growth from increased environmental impact, in particular through increased use of renewable energy and cleaner technology.
we should ensure that we take sustainability into account in all policy areas, whether we are talking about legislation, trade agreements, investment or development aid.
we must ensure better and more secure means of implementing international environmental and social agreements.
modern businesses must take other considerations into account, such as considerations for people and the environment.
today companies must present financial statements, but in the future, of course, these financial statements will also have to be combined with annual reports which tell the public what companies have done to live up to their social and environmental responsibilities.
it has long been a part of the daily life of european companies to assume a responsibility for employees, the environment and the environment that goes beyond what laws and regulations require.
another example i would like to mention is the cooperation between thirteen major scandinavian groups which, together with the world wildlife fund, are working to develop a programme for sustainable development.
this is at least the last agreement i have made with mr nisticò, and as i said we will do everything we can to postpone the vote on this matter so that we can discuss this with the leadership of the ppe-de group and with the ppe-de group coordinator in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
- madam president, the johannesburg summit is a further step in the process begun in rio de janeiro to achieve sustainable development worldwide.
however, despite significant progress, the global environment has continued to deteriorate significantly.
the summit is intended to tackle together the economic challenges - development defined as pure economic growth -, social - poverty reduction, achieving the goals of the united nations millennium declaration - and environmental challenges themselves.
the european union is actively working on the six priorities for johannesburg in the areas of health, water, energy, trade, global public goods and sustainable patterns of production and consumption.
in the meantime, the community positions have been prepared in brussels in a process whose stages are: the conclusions of the environment council of 4 march which were endorsed by the barcelona european council, the conclusions approved by the development council of 30 may and, finally, the conclusions of the general affairs council of 17 june, based on the preceding ones and on the results of prepcon 4, which will be endorsed at the seville european council as the european union's overall position on johannesburg.
at the level of the 15, the discussions focused on the following issues, which will be resolved at the general affairs council on 17 june, just before seville: firstly, the coherence of community policies, without prejudice to the adaptation of community policies to the internal and external objectives of sustainable development.
secondly, the abolition of subsidies which are harmful to the environment.
although in chapter 2 on trade a compromise formula was reached, reducing, if necessary eliminating, subsidies considered harmful to the environment, there is still no consensus among all member states on the compulsory or automatic nature of the elimination of such subsidies.
the european union must make a very important contribution to this summit and show great leadership, because we are the global standard-bearers on sustainable development.
as we have heard, three documents are being prepared for johannesburg: an action plan on sustainable development, drawn up under the leadership of the un-appointed chairman, dr salim, secondly a political declaration and thirdly criteria for the launching and monitoring of partnerships to implement the actions and political commitments agreed in johannesburg.
ministers agreed that the key eu objectives to be achieved were, firstly, the setting of clear targets and time-frames, especially for water, sanitation and energy, secondly the establishment of a clear linkage between the political commitments and targets in the proposed action plan, and their implementation through initiatives or partnerships, and thirdly an agreement on the shift to sustainable patterns of consumption and production.
some progress was made in these areas in bali, as well as on issues such as health, africa, small island states and the environment and some of the differences between delegations were reduced.
the eu position has a lot of appeal for developing countries, not least because it seeks, inter alia, to promote common commitments on increasing trade-related assistance and capacity building beyond pre-doha levels, to search for innovative ways to encourage trade in sustainable products and to encourage the emulation of the european "everything but arms" initiative.
however, unless a satisfactory solution is found, there is a risk that the johannesburg meeting will be dominated by acrimony over the issues of trade and finance and the focus on sustainable development risks being lost.
if that happens, the opportunity to make progress with sustainable development could be missed.
we will need to work closely with g77 to re-establish a climate of trust and partnership and explain our globalisation and sustainable development agenda.
in addition to the political context, we will also continue our technical work to build support for our partnership initiatives, which can bring real benefits to developing countries in terms of poverty reduction, health and educational improvements and environmental protection.
the european parliament is an advocate of sustainable development.
the way forward is more growth and prosperity in developing countries - growth and prosperity that must be coupled with sustainability.
we must secure international agreements on environmental protection and the control of deadly diseases.
unfortunately, rich countries often impede the growth of poor countries by imposing tariffs, by setting up trade barriers under the guise of environmental regulations and by supporting their own agricultural production.
- mr president, the world conference on sustainable development in johannesburg could provide a unique opportunity to create sustainable development for future generations, both economically, socially and environmentally, but this requires that the rich world will sacrifice something for such development.
it is regrettable and almost embarrassing that the negotiations in bali on a global agreement on sustainability have effectively collapsed.
the developing countries want and should have the assurance that the industrialized countries will start to phase out state aid to agriculture and the assurance that the additional aid for the environment and sustainable development that was promised to them in rio 10 years ago will actually come.
rules on traceability and labelling are of course absolutely necessary, partly to ensure effective quality control, but also to enable products to be withdrawn from the market in the event of unforeseen adverse effects on our health or the environment, and finally to give consumers a real choice between gmo products and non-gmo products.
i therefore fully support the line taken by the committee on the environment - it will ensure that we have an effective traceability system and that we as consumers have a free choice.
there is no way of going back to gmos if they prove to have negative effects on our health or the environment.
i would simply urge the danish government to stick to the line it has taken up to now, that we must end agricultural subsidies completely and completely in favour of a fairer world, putting national interests out of the way and putting sustainability and relations with farmers in the third world on the agenda instead.
that is why french, danish, polish and all other farmers have a common interest in reforming agricultural policy so that it supports farmers' incomes instead of unsellable products, surplus stocks, destruction, destruction of agricultural production in developing countries, environmental destruction, overpricing of our daily food for consumers.
it is essential that we support sustainable development with more people in work and a better economy.
but liberalisation really only covers developing countries, where the demand for liberalisation completely destroys their ability to build an independent, sustainable production.
we could start at least by abolishing the eu's protectionist agricultural aid schemes, suspending our fisheries agreements with third countries which are helping to destroy the livelihoods of the world's poorest, establishing a development policy which is genuinely aimed at combating poverty and is not guided by the fight against immigration, terrorism and the concern for one's own jobs, and - last but not least - supporting the right of the poor countries to self-production and access to water, land and biodiversity.
in our communication on the reform of the common fisheries policy, we made it clear that we want all coastal states to work together to ensure sustainable and responsible deep-sea fishing.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
- mr president, according to the russian constitution, journalist gregory pasko would have committed criminal offence if he had withheld information on environmental issues or disasters that could endanger human life.
on the contrary, he has consistently reported on how the russian pacific fleet dumps nuclear waste and old weapons in the pacific ocean, thus creating a threatening environmental catastrophe.
i think that is a very important message, and the other important message that mr deva is referring to is that we ourselves and the european union are a great example of this, since we have grown up in a protectionist environment.
besides supporting farming incomes, it must yield more in return in terms of food quality, conservation of the environment and animal welfare, the countryside and the farming landscape, and enhancing social balance and equity.
the current provisions on non-food crops will be replaced by non-specific aid for energy crops.
market-related price relationships have made it advantageous to buy imported oilcakes, especially soya-bean, but climate risks and changes in production in the countries we source from make the eu far too vulnerable.
this should and must be a clear warning signal to us to give environmental issues a much higher priority in all relevant community policies than we have done so far.
but we should also look at the causes and take seriously the greenhouse effect and other man-made attacks on nature.
i cannot yet assess the danish presidency's efforts in johannesburg, but it is a scandal that we continue to dump the agricultural markets of developing countries with eu aid, refuse to open our markets completely to their products and have not even succeeded in getting 15% of energy to come from renewable sources by 2015. it is probably this lack of decision that is planning the next natural disasters.
a stronger eu-asia relationship should also help to support market economies, sustainable development and thus asian prosperity.
i think it is important that developing countries in particular are protected against the negative effects of the often aggressive marketing of gmos, with the serious effects they can have on human health - not least if we want to preserve the biodiversity of the countries concerned.
it is essential, particularly in relation to the developing countries, that the doubts about the negative effects on biodiversity in the countries concerned be taken seriously and that legislation be applied both to gmos for release into the environment and to genetically modified food and feed.
- mr president, what we have left after johannesburg is little concrete progress and muddy prospects for future global work on sustainable development.
this is why it has also been difficult to achieve improvements in the environment and human rights.
the johannesburg summit was a confirmation of 10 years of experience with the us as a player in global environmental and development policy.
what is perhaps worse is that in many areas there has been no real improvement in the working environment in the eu.
it is therefore important that we focus more on the practical implementation of the legislation on health and safety at work, so that a good and safe working environment is actually created in all workplaces in the eu.
that said, we must also consider carefully what regulation is best for the protection of the working environment.
the european union has a particular responsibility to ensure sustainable trade in endangered species, as we are one of the largest markets for such species and their products.
i am pleased to note that the commission's position differs only slightly from the views expressed by the committee on the environment.
but that has nothing to do with the fact that southern african elephants should not be moved back into appendix i. i do not know whether you have seen the letter we received this week from the european sustainable use specialist group.
nor should we if we want to maintain the populations because it is quite clear that the use of wild living resources, if they are sustainable – and they are in southern africa – is an important conservation tool.
in this context, it is discouraging to see that the european union budget contains many unused resources and that in some cases there is outright waste.
as regards radioactive waste, i would like to mention a specific danish problem.
we don't have nuclear reactors here, but we do have waste - 2,000 to 3,000 pounds of highly radioactive waste - from the time when we thought we were going to make fuel cells.
if we are to deposit them in denmark, as the rules are today, it will cost a very, very large sum; if, on the other hand, we were allowed to do so, under new rules, as the commissioner suggested, namely cooperation between different countries, i think that no one would object to the fact that we placed some 200 kg of radioactive waste from the danish side together with many tons of high-level radioactive waste from the major countries.
that is not possible today, since each country is obliged to take back its own high-level radioactive waste; it is not useful for small countries which have suffered only from medical waste and other waste.
we want the revision to include the declaration 'initiative for a sustainable cap', which has been adopted by 85 organisations active in the environment, development, agriculture and consumer protection sectors in europe, including the danish league for nature protection.
– madam president, i read with attention the report adopted by the committee on fisheries on our action plan on environmental integration.
we are happy to note that our views are rather more convergent on this issue of environmental integration than on other reform aspects.
we clearly share the same goals in respect of such important fields of action suggested in the report as environmental protection, improvement of research, including the integration of fishermen's experience, specific measures for specific problems, the implementation of an ecosystem approach, aids to modernisation, industrial fisheries, sustainable aquaculture and so on.
to achieve the targets set out in johannesburg, we are in the process of implementing the bio-diversity action plan with a view to halting bio-diversity decline by 2010 and it is through the reformed cfp that we intend to rebuild stocks sooner than 2015. we have recently co-financed an fao expert meeting to develop operational guidelines to implement an ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management.
we have requested that the ices study the ecological consequences of industrial fisheries and the effects on non-fishery activities, as well as the threats, including global warming, to commercial stocks.
the commission has initiated debate to promote a coordinated protection of the marine environment.
the recent communication on a strategy to protect and conserve the marine environment gives the main elements of the policy advocated for a holistic treatment of the problem.
the creation of an eu compensation fund for oil spills is expected to be finalised by 2003. we are constantly putting as much pressure as we can on member states for a better implementation of the habitats directive in the marine environment as completely and as soon as possible.
finally, as you have already had the opportunity to study our communication on sustainable aquaculture, you may have noticed how much our intended policy in the area takes into account environmental protection requirements.
as far as fisheries agreements are concerned, you will soon have an opportunity to confirm that the commission shares your environmental concerns.
finally, i would not agree that industrial fishing has a much greater environmental impact per euro added value than fisheries for human consumption, mainly because i find it odd to measure environmental impact against monetary units, but also because the environmental impact of this kind of fishing has yet to be determined.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal.
secondly, i would like to make it clear that the reform of the common fisheries policy must be based on the sustainable development of fisheries.
it must be environmentally sound, economically and also socially constructed sustainability.
the liberal group can support the commission's reform proposals, which contain a number of elements aimed at sustainability and thus the balance needed to bring fish stocks into line with the number of fishing vessels.
they still need to build up the administrative and judicial capacity to implement and comply with eu legislation in practice, particularly in the fields of agriculture, food and the environment.
i think it is important, among other things, that the requirements for integrating environmental and health protection are actually being met in all sectors.
but would it not be appropriate to have a central overview of all flights, both civil and military, both in progress and planned, in order to make better use of airspace, reduce delays and reduce the environmental impact?
i would also like to express my group's appreciation for mr varela's statement on the oil pollution along the galician coast.
there is a real need for a fisheries policy which creates a balance between resources and their exploitation, which is based on the principle of sustainability and which takes much broader environmental and ecological considerations into account than the one that has been applied so far.
it is the lack of political accountability and oversight by governments that is now giving rise to a number of serious social, environmental and economic consequences in the region concerned.
i hope that a sustainable fisheries reform can be implemented before the new year and it would be interesting to hear whether the commissioner can confirm that work is continuing on this timetable and give his assessments of the possibilities.
we all know that noise is a very serious problem in the working environment.
- mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur and those who have organized this sitting, because this is the first time in a long time that the house sitting here has been able to debate an important issue of the working environment at a reasonable time.
- mr president, retirement age, increasing life expectancy and the increasing use of early retirement mean that many pension systems are having problems with their economic sustainability, and you say, commissioner, that there is no specific model being identified; but is the swedish model, which poland and latvia have also joined, being pointed out as a way of ensuring future sustainability?
this is not something we have seen play out and it will mean that great caution will have to be exercised in future investments as this will have a major impact on the sustainability of pensions.
your pending approval of this proposed directive is the culmination of considerable efforts on the part of the council in reaching its common position, taking on many of parliament’s amendments from first reading; on the part of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy in proposing amendments to that position and on the part of parliament's delegation in reaching a constructive compromise with the council.
it is a good example of how the european parliament can help to promote the protection of the environment and health in europe.
as regards octabromodiphenyl ether, the risk assessment has clearly revealed that the substance poses clear risks to the environment and human health and there is now also agreement to implement an immediate ban on the use of this substance, and that is good.
it can be said that the environment and human health will now bear the risk of the use of this substance for some time to come.
i think that is very unfortunate, and it illustrates the importance of the fact that in the chemical sector we can reverse the burden of proof, so that it is the producers who have to prove that the substances they use are safe for the environment and for humans.