in any case, i would like to reiterate our congratulations as a group and our attitude of loyal collaboration with you, hoping that you will be the president of all europeans for a more progressive europe, with more social justice, with sustainable development and, above all, a europe in which we will be able to lay the foundations of a constitution for all europeans.
the challenge now is to create an economic union that responds to monetary union - as the president of the commission has pointed out - and also to develop the lisbon strategy, which in our view is sustainable development, more social cohesion, more full employment, more competitiveness.
it is also important when it comes to institutional reforms, when it comes to defining the role and participation of the regions in the construction of the europe of the 21st century and a proper environmental policy, without neglecting the field of social policy, that is, employment and smes.
more europe, it also means not committing the ecological crime of the national hydrological plan: these are the european directives on habitat and water.
they are amendments: nos 1, 3, 167, 141, 4, 13, 16, 17, 24, 28, 34, 36, 174, 40, 50, 128, 53, 79, 80, 85, 88, 97, 109 – to the extent that it concerns production processes – and 112. the commission can also accept the substance of a number of amendments, subject to some drafting changes, namely amendments nos 2, 10, 42 in part, 45, 46, 47, 123, 52 in part, 93 and 95 in part, 109, 110 and 154 concerning the extent to which environmental considerations can be taken into account at different stages of an award procedure.
amendments introducing new exceptions to the scope of the directives without appropriate justification, the effect of which would be to remove a number of public contracts from community competition, namely amendments nos 37, 38 in part, 122, 136, 150 and 157. amendments which undermine the very objective of public procurement rules, which is to ensure that public purchasers do not allow their decision to be influenced by non-economic considerations, namely amendments nos 12, 14, 98, 134, 140 and 166 concerning award criteria which allow for the possibility of using non-economic – and in particular social and environmental – criteria.
amendments which weaken attempts to modernise the directives by reducing the scope for using electronic procurement, namely amendments nos 70 in part, 73, 75, 102, 103, 115, 117 and 131. amendments imposing disproportionate requirements on smes through the regulation of subcontracting and other requirements, namely amendments 42, 48 in part, 49, 76, 100 in part, 116, 133, 152 and 159. amendments which reduce transparency in calls for competition, in particular amendments nos 62, 68 and 78, and which extend the scope to negotiate, namely amendments nos 57, part of 61, 66 and 151. amendments which restrict the use of framework agreements with no apparent justification, namely amendments nos 25, 27, 135, 139, 63, 64 and 158. amendments introducing environmental considerations into award procedures in a manner incompatible with the directives, namely the part of amendment no 45 concerning eco-labels, no 92 concerning the selection stage and no 109 regarding the definition of technical specifications and their compatibility with the environment.
in reply to mrs schörling, the commission has proposed including as possible award criterion the environmental characteristics of a product or service, provided that they present an advantage to the contracting authority.
the proposed amendments go further, in allowing more general environmental considerations such as the long-term effects on the environment of the products or services purchased to be taken into account at the award stage.
in addition, having regard to the content of the communication on the environment and public contracts, the commission – as it explained at the time of the court hearing – does not see an obstacle to the emissions criterion being taken into account where this involves – as the case of the city of helsinki has shown – an external cost to the purchaser itself.
mr lehne stated that social and environmental clauses must be introduced in the tender documents themselves and should not influence the choice at the award stage.
- the next item is the report (a4-0454/2001) by mr davies, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive on ozone in ambient air (pe-cons 3658/2001 - c5-0524/2001 - 1999/0068 (cod)).
- mr president, the directive on ozone in ambient air is intended to deal with the problem of tropospheric ozone produced and trapped in the air near the earth's surface, which, as we all know, has harmful effects on human health, vegetation, ecosystems and the environment as a whole.
the concentration of ozone - we know - is due to the accumulation in the atmosphere of precursors, but their eradication is of course not an easy solution, since these precursors sometimes act as ozone reducers in the atmosphere.
various national measurements have shown that, under climatic conditions such as high light and a stable atmosphere, reduction of precursor agents does not produce the desired effect of decreasing ozone concentration, but quite the opposite.
so the solution to the ozone problem is really complex.
the simple closure of sources of precursors, such as the chimney of a factory that emits fumes, which are precursors of ozone, into the atmosphere, is not an appropriate measure.
the rapporteur and several members of the committee on the environment, including myself, have worked hard for almost two years to improve the commission's proposal - which is certainly necessary - but also to arrive at a balanced proposal which would allow the member states to comply as much as possible.
i would like to highlight, as a very positive aspect of the proposal that has been adopted, the combination of long-term objectives with the short-term treatment of risk situations, as well as all the measures aimed at rigorous monitoring and monitoring of ozone levels in the atmosphere in all the member states.
i also think it is important to apply the principle of transparency of information, since the public must be better and more informed about the impact of ozone levels in the atmosphere.
this directive is an important step in the right direction towards an integrated approach to the problem of pollution and, together with the directive on national emission ceilings, we believe that they will be really very important tools for dealing with environmental problems and, in particular, pollution problems in a horizontal way.
i am of course very pleased that we are now approaching the time when we can adopt the directive on ozone in the air.
thanks to this directive we will be able to protect vegetation and human health from the harmful effects of excessive ozone concentrations, except where this cannot be achieved by proportionate measures.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0456/2001), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing the sixth community action programme on the environment (11076/1/2001 - c5-0434/2001 - 2001/0029 (cod)).
all policies must be integrated into environmental policy (as reflected in some of the amendments) and public participation and information is necessary (as reflected in some of the amendments).
i do not conceal the fact that, as a citizen of a small mining region in asturias, i have some difficulties, personally, not my group, with the amendment which deals with subsidies subject to a certain deadline for projects which may harm the environment.
the fifth environmental action programme has now been completed.
it is the right framework for combining the development of the peoples of europe into a policy axis of sustainable development and i think that is enough.
the desire to generalize all measures and to implement a uniform policy in all countries is contrary to sustainability and is a principle of globalising mindsets.
sustainability attaches great importance to social principles, technological feasibility and the context in which the measures are applied; the first principle of sustainability is to know how to combine general principles with tailor-made clothing for what each people, each place, each climate and each context needs.
it is necessary to assess whether or not there are appropriate technologies, whether or not there are applicable technologies, because often, because of the climate, the conditions, the size of the company, etc., the technologies may be different.
we therefore support the scientific nature and the study of the economic and social impacts of the programme, because if there are no social principles, there is no sustainability.
it is an exciting journey to make with a proposal for a new environmental action programme.
perhaps we should have spoken a little more about the expectations of the sixth environmental action programme at the time of my hearing.
we understand that a longer-term programme may be needed because environmental problems often arise after a certain number of years.
it is also about the underlying principles of environmental policy in this decade and the need for broad consultation and participation in decision-making on environmental issues.
these include climate change, nature and biodiversity, environmental and health measures, the question of how we use our natural resources and the question of waste.
we also agree that existing legislation should be implemented in practice, that environmental considerations should be integrated into all other policy areas and that legislators, decision-makers and the public should have access to adequate information.
the strategy for the next 10 years is in fact based on the fifth environmental action programme, which has been developed by describing how environmental policy and challenges have changed.
today's lifestyles, consumption patterns, the way goods are produced and the way we as individuals live and operate affect environmental problems.
it was important to me to draw up an environmental action programme that everyone, not just the experts, could follow and evaluate when new proposals and initiatives were presented, as was the case with the recent climate package.
the committee on the environment supports in principle the general approach to the development of future environmental policy contained in the council's common position.
i can of course also approve the additional objectives proposed by the commission in its communication on sustainable development for the gothenburg summit, namely amendments nos 11, 15, 16 and 27. this is, however, on condition that they faithfully reflect our message.
the committee has added a proposal on the urban environment.
of course, i think it is fulfilling its function, but before we make it legally binding we must come up with a definition that is sustainable.
it is too early to determine the nature of the agreements in the programme and therefore we cannot accept amendments nos 9 and 40. on a number of other issues, such as sustainable development and integration, measures relating to tax levels at community level, environmental crime, etc., there is general support from the commission.
mr president, we are approaching an agreement on the environmental action programme for the next ten years.
i hope that the council, on the basis of the amendments supported by the commission, will take a positive view of parliament's opinion, so that together, the commission, the council, parliament and the other stakeholders, we can continue to work to preserve and improve our environment.
the green paper on an integrated product policy should, in my view, be the framework for the formulation of a set of guidelines and proposals which will make it easier for producers and consumers alike to make full use of the instruments and opportunities offered by the market in order to achieve a functioning of the market which is more in line with the practice of sustainable development.
this new approach must go beyond the traditional approach - followed so far by the european union - which is based mainly on promoting environmental improvement in the productive sector through rules setting limits on pollution and also through voluntary instruments promoting the differentiation of companies and products incorporating environmental improvements.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
different mechanisms have been proposed to encourage this necessary environmental improvement of products and their consumption.
the proposal contains a number of indications which give a foothold to different market policies and instruments, going beyond those which are exclusively environmental, and which i think will pave the way for more detailed and more developed discussion in a future white paper.
we are faced with a decisive approach to facilitate the promotion of environmental improvement through the market in the european union, which will make it possible to set more environmentally fair prices for products, stimulate demand in a more correct way and make widespread use of clean production instruments.
i also believe that this approach will give greater strength to the integration of environmental policy into other areas, such as economic and social policy, and we will thereby better fulfil the mandate of cardiff and gothenburg.
the report i am presenting to you is clear in defining the fundamental objective of the common fisheries policy: to balance the viability of a strategic economic sector for the european union - which contributes to food supplies and is vital for employment and the economic and social cohesion of the union's peripheral regions - with the maintenance of sustainable marine ecosystems.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
- mr president, as it could not be otherwise, the committee on the environment decided, by an abstention and a large majority in favour, that only the balance of the marine ecosystem - as other colleagues say - will guarantee employment in fishing in the future, and that the fleet should be adapted to existing resources.
we in the committee on the environment believe that action must be taken on the sources of pollution, which are many - industrial pollution, the enormous tourist pressure we are all well aware of in our country - action on the extraordinary ecosystems that exist in our own country, such as rivers, and action on hydrocarbon plants and others that go in the opposite direction to what we would like.
social, environmental and economic indicators are needed to ensure that actions are effective, as are accompanying social measures and incentives for sustainable fishing practices, such as the artisanal practices that occur on our nearest coasts.
but this position is not reflected in the report under discussion, which, although it contains acceptable and meritorious elements, is not formulated with the energy necessary to combat the commission's positions.
in the green paper the commission refuses to regard fisheries as a normal economic sector, vital to the economy of certain coastal countries such as galicia, which i represent, a sector which must develop its activities within the rules laid down in the treaties, respecting in particular the principles of sustainable development.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work.
- mr president, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection could have spoken jointly on this report and on mrs miguélez ramos' report, because we are very closely linked.
the present paper deals with the integration of the environment into the common fisheries policy, and part of the green paper also deals with the preservation of the marine environment.
in reality, the strategy of integrating environmental policy into the rest of the union's policies is one which has been mentioned repeatedly in the last european councils - above all in gothenburg - but which has little practical application, especially when it comes to industrial policy, including fisheries, and other union policies.
we must respect the breeding periods, use nets that do not prey on the marine environment.
biodiversity must be preserved, as provided for in the sixth environmental action programme - which we are discussing this week and which we are going to vote on at noon - and pollution of coastal areas must be avoided.
i believe that we must not only act on the fleet's capacity to adapt the resources we have, but we must act above all on the sources of pollution that impede our marine wealth.
the more the applicant countries transpose harmonised provisions into their law, the more important the adaptation problems will be in the future with regard to technical standardisation, social standards, environmental protection regulations and road safety rules.
firstly, because with this agreement the eu reaffirms its commitment to the acp countries and its willingness to contribute to their sustainable economic and social development.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
a5-0465/2001 by mr vidal-quadras roca, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the energy performance of buildings (com (2001) 226 - c5-0203/2001 - 2001/0098 (cod)).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy supply is not affected by the consequences of the crisis.
we are all aware that the main component of the energy bill in the union is buildings: ventilation, cooling, heating, lighting, etc.
this chapter concentrates the bulk of the union's energy expenditure.
the first is the obligation for all buildings in the union to have a certificate that qualifies them from the point of view of energy efficiency.
this certificate will undoubtedly have a great signal value on the markets and will make a significant contribution to energy savings.
the second is the obligation for all new buildings to incorporate an energy efficiency study, an indispensable requirement for building permits.
the third aspect is the obligation for all buildings of more than 1,000 m2 that are subject to major renovation to improve their energy efficiency.
it will not be lost on the honourable members that if - as some studies predict - it is possible to achieve in the coming years a saving of 20% in the energy bill of buildings, 20% of 40% brings us closer to 10% and this, in terms of the bill for oil and co2 emissions, is of importance to no one.
i would also like to thank the green group and mrs ahern very much for their excellent interest and cooperation and to highlight their very interesting contribution to passive cooling techniques, which are so important in those parts of the union where the climate is very warm and cooling (air conditioning systems) is becoming a determining factor.
mr president, if it is true that politics is the art of making the necessary possible, this directive will ensure that a very important chapter of the union's energy expenditure will be saved in the next decade, and that this will contribute to the well-being, progress and security of all europeans.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is properly implemented.
as he has already said, the european union is consuming more and more energy and therefore also importing more and more energy products, because our demand exceeds our capacity to meet it with our own resources.
this is why it is important, firstly, to diversify the sources of energy, to look for new sources of energy, including, of course, renewable energy, and, secondly, to promote and pursue energy efficiency.
i hope that mr vidal-quadras has welcomed the opinion of the committee on the environment, since i think that the points we have underlined in it contribute to enriching some of the aspects of his excellent proposal.
another point on which the committee on the environment has insisted is the homogenisation of the certificates for buildings in the different member states, which would make it possible to compare the energy efficiency achieved in each of the buildings.
we also wanted to clarify the definition of those buildings which are excluded from the application of energy-saving measures and, also, in order not to have our proposal rejected, we have proposed, as mr vidal-quadras has done, that the commission's proposal to reduce the surface area of the buildings concerned be accepted.
– mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr vidal-quadras roca on his excellent work on the proposed directive concerning the energy performance of buildings.
i should also like to thank the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy for its thorough and thoughtful discussions and to express my satisfaction with the way in which the debate in parliament has sharpened the focus of the proposal and strengthened it.
as has been pointed out, the buildings sector accounts for over 40% of all eu final energy consumption.
this proposal may lead to a significant improvement in the energy performance of buildings by promoting better minimum standards in member states and in their building codes and by requiring more frequent updating and wider application of these codes.
because of the heterogeneous nature of the building sector as a result of differences in climate, culture and building traditions, subsidiarity and flexibility for member states are important in the implementation of this directive.
the commission feels that the most effective way to improve energy performance requirements in member states is to provide methods to encourage them to improve their own building codes, set their own performance levels and ensure full application and regular revision of those.
while methods of calculation, many norms and a number of standards can be established at community level, the actual efficiency level of energy performance of buildings should remain a member state matter.
another important point is with regard to the threshold for upgrading the energy performance of existing buildings when they undergo major renovation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
part one
question no 39 by mr trakatellis (h-0030/02) subject: nuclear safety: bulgaria's failure to comply with the partnership agreement with the eu and its commitments concerning the dismantling of the kozloduy reactors with the prospect of the dismantling of units 1 and 2 of the kozloduy nuclear power plant by the end of 2002, bulgaria's energy minister, mr kovachev, stated on 8 january that his country would not respect its commitments to close and dismantle old-type reactors which present risks, contrary to what had been provided for in the revised partnership agreement concluded between the european union and bulgaria, as well as in the sofia memorandum concluded in 1999 between bulgaria and the commission.
can bulgaria, in the context of the pre-accession procedure, request the opening of negotiations on energy, even though it refuses to comply with the commitments it has made to the eu on nuclear safety and has not yet defined a new strategy in this area in accordance with the principles of the free market (production and pricing) and the opening of the market to competition?
i should also like to say, mr president, that the energy supply in bulgaria is a matter for the bulgarian government.
the commission is also not directly responsible for energy efficiency in the balkans and the situation in bulgaria on the energy market.
i can only reiterate our assessment that the closure of units 1 to 4 will not lead to a shortage of energy in bulgaria, but that there is a considerable overcapacity.
question no 2 by mr liikanen
question no 41 by concepció ferrer (h-0054/02) subject: improvement of the regulatory environment for small and mediumsized enterprises the internal market is a privileged market in which european businesses interact.
the need to improve the regulatory environment, highlighted at the lisbon summit and in the european charter for small enterprises, requires follow-up.
one of the objectives is to improve the business environment and many of the measures related to this objective have a particular focus on helping small businesses.
the commission also monitors the development of the business environment for small enterprises through the annual report accompanying the european small business act.
both the white paper on european governance and the laeken communication on improving and simplifying the regulatory environment have proposed a number of measures to improve the situation.
the commission will, after consulting the community institutions and other stakeholders, make a proposal by june for a simple action plan to simplify and improve the regulatory environment.
alongside this, the commission proposed at the göteborg summit the need for sustainable impact assessments, which means impact assessments that include economic, social and environmental factors.
the commission appreciates the importance of both business and sustainable impact assessments and the need to achieve them quickly.
question no 40 by brian crowley (h-0025/02) subject: improving the business climate in 2002 and creating an electronic society for all could the commission give an overview of its proposals for 2002 which should improve the business climate, in particular for small and micro enterprises, and could it indicate within what timeframe it intends, as it has committed to, to submit its new initiatives to strengthen the trend towards an electronic society for all?
through the annual report we monitor progress on the environment for small businesses.
what specific measures does the commission intend to take in the context of both the quality policy at the workplace and the open method of coordination to ensure safe and sustainable pensions?
if we remember how reports were made in the past years to prove that climate change did not exist, paid for mainly by the americans, how any scientist who insisted on the problems that climate change could bring was discredited, we also note that in these years a lot has been gained in public awareness, that is, perhaps time has been lost in implementing measures, but it has been gained in public awareness.
i think that today everyone knows what the kyoto protocol means, what climate change means and the associated effects that climate change brings, such as disappearing islands, destruction of coasts, mass displacement of millions of people and loss of biodiversity.
it is also true that greenhouse gas emissions in europe have fallen from 1990 to 1999, but it is also true that this is due to two countries in particular and for very specific reasons.
there are many countries, like mine, that have increased -- i think excessively -- those emissions.
it is an example that other countries should follow in order to reach the 55 needed by september, which emits at least 55% of greenhouse gases.
the rapporteur recalls very well that transport emissions may increase by 50% in the next ten years.
- madam president, commissioner, as the rapporteur has indicated, the kyoto protocol will be submitted to the environment council for ratification on 4 march.
a result that marks a further step forward in the european union's leadership in the fight against climate change.
we must achieve a low-carbon society rich in the use of clean technologies and optimisation of energy efficiency.
we must act on demand at community level in areas such as internalisation of costs, emissions trading and changes in certain policies such as transport, energy or agriculture.
i believe that mr moreira da silva has put forward a proposal which is committed to sustainable development, which is clear and precise in pointing out where action is needed.
the content of this watson report, which the presidency endorses, created the political environment necessary for the european commission, which had already been working for some time on the preparation of the framework decisions on the fight against terrorism and the european arrest and surrender order, to urgently present, after 11 september, both legislative proposals, which were able to be the subject of consensus in the justice and home affairs council of 6 and 7 december and which were endorsed politically at the european council in laeken.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we therefore urge the commission to ensure that socioeconomic and environmental cooperation is regularly implemented in all regions receiving community funds and to ensure that the programming of projects is consulted with the parliaments and governments of the constitutional regions with legislative powers.
at the same time, we ask that, in the event of reallocation of unspent resources, unused appropriations be allocated to the most active and innovative disadvantaged regions and to measures to promote sustainable development.
finally, supporting the rapporteur's idea of including the quality aspect in the annual monitoring of programmes subsidised by the commission, we propose that the contribution of these programmes to the implementation of the union's strategies for sustainable development and employment be assessed.
as regards the sensitive issue of natural or ecological disasters which you raise in your report, mr pohjamo, i would like to point out that adjustments can be made to the programmes, as has been done previously, for example for the italian, portuguese and greek programmes when there were earthquakes between 1997 and 1999, or more recently in france because of the storm.
i am sure that, in addition to asking for special treatment, they have asked for some of the measures that mr musotto is asking for today in his report - which i also congratulate - in which he stresses the need to differentiate between statistical convergence and real convergence, and the need to use alternative indicators to income per capita, such as unemployment, the lack of infrastructure, the shortage of transport and energy, dual insularity, the formation of human resources and the ozone index in the outermost regions.
this is true of the cap, where results are insufficient, of transport - mrs de palacio is here, she could speak better than i - of energy, competition, research, employment and many other policies.
the proposal will contribute to improving road safety, protecting the environment and maintaining conditions of fair and equal competition between all operators within the european union.
the commission cannot accept amendment no 12, which was supported by mr jarzembowski, among others, because the directive's triple objective - road safety, environmental protection and competition on equal terms - cannot be achieved if the same speed limit is not imposed on all vehicles.
- the next item is the report (a5-0005/2002) by mr glante, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of a galileo joint undertaking (com (2001) 336 - c5-0329/2001 - 2001/0136 (cns)).
for us, the policy mix is the fight for full employment, social cohesion and sustainable growth, taking into account the need for europe to regain technological leadership with strong investment, especially in human capital.
the president spoke first of all about the network industries: energy, transport, and telecommunications as a network activity.
i do not want to go into spanish matters, but the minister for economic affairs in spain has a lot of work to do to solve some of the problems of the liberalisation of the energy market.
it is a perfect example of sustainable development, because it is about bringing water from where it is abundant to those lands where some days we take the saints out for rain and others we travel in boats after a storm.
a europe which is concerned about sustainable development and which therefore cannot approve the national hydrological plan, despite all the pressure we are under at the moment.
- mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, to place the environmental dimension on the same level of importance as the economic and social dimension and to act accordingly is to stop talking about sustainable development and to do sustainable development.
it is the duty of the community institutions to be vigilant and demanding in the application of sustainable development criteria in the member states as regards compliance with european legislation and the use of community funds.
the motion for a resolution by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy is an initiative which insists on these aspects and therefore deserves the support of this house.
however, to bring to the european parliament, in the context of this resolution, a matter of national policy such as the spanish hydrological plan, is a serious mistake which does not at all correspond to the desire to make sustainable development but to the intention of breaking with the principles of subsidiarity and autonomy of the community institutions.
mr de roo, to try to deprive a member state, a priori, without foundation, of the community funds necessary for its economic development and for the social cohesion of its regions is, in fact, to act against the sustainable development of that member state itself.
the spanish national hydrological plan is not an enemy of sustainable development, its approach is based on a total commitment to comply with community environmental legislation and the criteria that inspire the sustainable development strategy, it has the support and majority approval of the competent national institutions, permanent scientific and technical supervision both at national and community level.
(applause from the right)
- mr president, i wish to address the house precisely to discuss the subject of sustainable development at the barcelona european council.
the commission's resolution obviously has many interesting points, but with regard to amendment no 10, which deals with the information and sustainability reports it has to issue to grant the structural funds and with regard to the spanish national hydrological plan, i want to say that i am very concerned because the sustainability criteria are not well defined today.
what we consider sustainable is not well defined and this lends itself to subjective views, to propaganda and to unfair views.
i believe that the criteria for defining sustainability must be developed with an open mind, because comprehensive policy requires that the multifaceted nature of sustainability be integrated.
objective and territorial parameters must therefore be used, with the understanding that sustainable development always affects a specific territory.
in this sense, climate change, for example, cannot be applied only to gas emissions, it must also be applied to desertification, which is perfectly quantifiable, to rainfall.
if we have managed to make sustainability and the environment a transversal project, the environment must also open the door to social and economic criteria.
there is no sustainability without an assessment of the social impact, the habitability of the territories, the negative economic impact and the costs.
so either we enrich the criteria for sustainable development or we create situations of asymmetry, of injustice, making it even more difficult to develop energy and water policies in the future.
many of the objectives which you have set out, such as environmental, social, health, education and quality of life objectives, require economies to grow to their potential, and i would remind the european parliament that in the last ten years the european economy as a whole has only grown by more than 3% a year, and that in the other years it has not been able to grow by 3%.
the problems of sustainable development have also been raised by several speakers, and i think they are perfectly compatible with economic development, and that is also the clear definition of the type of economic policy we are proposing in europe.
i would like to remind you that the barcelona council, following the recommendations of the gothenburg council, will take account of the third dimension of structural reform, namely that which includes sustainable development, and that, since the laeken european council, we already have environmental indicators which will lead to the first report, which was published in january 2002, that is to say just over a month ago, on 17 january, and that on 5 march next week the ecofin council will analyse that report in order to finally take it to the european council in barcelona, which will also make it possible to reach agreements establishing the european position, in view of the summit on sustainable development in johannesburg.
i fully understand the demands of the groups and members that environmental issues should be at the forefront of structural reform issues, and in this connection i would like to stress once again that at the barcelona summit these issues will be taken into account, not in a generic way, but in the light of the environmental indicators adopted by the laeken council.
the second element is road pollution.
the commission is obliged to acknowledge that considerable progress has been made in relation to vehicle emissions and noise levels.
the commission has embarked on an ambitious strategy to combat air pollution and its negative effects through the sixth environmental action programme, the cafe (clean air for europe) programme on air quality.
the second initiative is aimed at supporting european cities that are committed to an ambitious strategy for sustainable, long-term mobility.
- (es) we voted for this resolution because it calls on the barcelona council to take into account the decisions of the gothenburg council on a sustainable development strategy and the eu's annual evaluation of this strategy, and recalls that 'the next rio+10 conference in johannesburg offers a major opportunity to further extend the principles of sustainable development worldwide'.
it also recalls that the environmental pillar of sustainable development must be given equal importance to the economic and social pillars, and refers to various themes which further underline the need to integrate environmental policy into other union policies.
of course, in the case of land transport, special attention must be paid to railways from the point of view of respect for the environment.
president of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
- mr president, commissioner, we are going to vote on three reports from the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy which are crucial for the forthcoming barcelona summit.
questions to mrs wallström
question no 39 by mr papayannakis (h-0062/02) subject: packaging and packaging waste has the commission informed greece of the measures taken to transpose into national law the provisions of directive 94/62/eec oj l 365, 31.12.1994, p. 10 on packaging and packaging waste?
- question no 40 by mr glyn ford (h-0092/02) subject: water framework directiveby 2015, under the new framework directive 2000/60/ec oj l 327, 22.12.2000, p. 1. on water, all the waters of the member states of the european union will have to have reached 'good' ecological status.
however, are there any bonuses or financial incentives to help companies switch from the use of substances harmful to the environment (hazardous substances are leaking into the sewerage system through the use of household products and the direct discharge of industrial products) to the use of less hazardous substances?
– the implementation of the waste water treatment plans in brussels is long-awaited and, as you know, we have initiated infringement proceedings against belgium on this matter.
according to the latest information we have received, it should be ready by 2006.
question no 41 by mrs nuala ahern (h-0093/02) subject: assessment of radioactive emissions from sellafield and cape hague has the commission already carried out an examination, or if not yet, will it immediately undertake a comparative assessment of the details of the radioactive emissions and effluents generated respectively by the sellafield nuclear waste and fuel treatment plant operated by bnfl in the united kingdom and the la hague nuclear waste and fuel treatment plant operated by cogema in france?
this question has been raised on several occasions and has been discussed in the environment council.
- question no 43 by patricia mckenna (h-0101/02): subject: non-compliance by ireland with community environmental legislation during her recent visit to ireland, commissioner wallström said that she would use the structural funds to force ireland to comply with key directives such as the nitrates directive and the waste framework directive.
apart from the legal action being taken, what exactly does the commission intend to do to ensure that ireland complies with community environmental legislation?
in view of the many complaints about the environment by individuals and organisations in ireland - the country with the highest per capita rate of complaints in the eu - what additional means is the commission prepared to provide to ensure that complaints are dealt with swiftly and effectively?
– i must say, after listening to you, that it is clear that ireland is where the resources ought to be put to take care of the waste problem.
i also wish that i could have more staff, to be better able to deal with all the cases, but it is in ireland where action needs to be taken to comply with the directives, including the waste directives.
i understand that it is a big challenge to irish society and its government to handle the waste problem, and i have of course made my understaffing problem known in the commission's internal discussions on resources.
i would like you, commissioner, to explain what basic premises you are going to follow in these negotiations and whether you do not think that a climate of good relations with morocco would have been desirable, instead of the resounding failure of aznar.
the european union has already made a number of important commitments in the field of the environment, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations.
for this reason, it must play a central role in the conservation of biodiversity in two ways: first, by consolidating environmentally compatible agricultural practices and, secondly, by ensuring the survival of viable farms and production systems throughout the european union.
the unlimited intensification of agriculture is as bad for biodiversity as the cessation of farmers' activity and the consequent decline of rural areas.
a community strategy for biodiversity must ensure sustainable agriculture in its broadest sense, which, in addition to the biological aspects, includes economic and social requirements and, in short, the survival of the rural environment.
the maintenance of this sustainable agriculture is also an imperative of the european agricultural model, based on the defence of agricultural multifunctionality, as has been reiterated in the council and in the european parliament in numerous resolutions.
the cap is a useful instrument for biodiversity, as are the earth summit resolutions adopted at the helsinki and gothenburg councils.
it is therefore wrong to confine the defence of biodiversity to the strict limits of the second pillar of the community's agricultural policy - and more specifically to environmental programmes to promote the extension of organic farming, the preservation of indigenous breeds and the protection of the various natural habitats, etc.
- for two reasons: firstly, because the second pillar of the cap represents 10% of the agricultural budget and, secondly, because agri-environmental programmes, although covering 20% of the agricultural area, have been applied very unevenly and are now practically limited to the least productive areas of five member states of the union, a situation aggravated by the weak framework attributed to the eco-conditionality of aid, namely markets which have resulted in the formulation of a minimum.
we should therefore extend cross compliance and encourage more active competition between the mechanisms of agricultural market policy in favour of the environment and biodiversity.
it is urgent that we strengthen the second pillar of the cap from the financial point of view, and that we differentiate between measures for socio-rural development and measures for the agro-environment.
we have a major challenge to face: consolidating the community's agricultural policies and bringing them together so that they work in parallel to conserve biodiversity.
- mr president, we agree with mrs béguin's report because it is based on a reality: neither the convention on biological diversity, signed in 1992, nor the various international conventions, nor community law, in particular the birds and habitats directives, have succeeded in halting the deterioration of biodiversity.
and it speaks clearly of the need to integrate environmental policy into the rest of agricultural, fisheries and other policies.
this is a clear example of how european funds should not be used for projects that harm the environment.
- mr president, commissioner, the preparation of the european parliament's own-initiative report on the implementation of the waste water directive was made possible because the committee on the environment was concerned about this directive and followed it with great interest.
we know that the member states have been so lax all this time (they have not applied these and other directives on the water question) that i believe that on more than 42 occasions member states have been denounced for failure to comply with 17 directives on waste water.
i would like to say to you, madam commissioner, that when we asked the committee on the environment to draw up this own-initiative report, we really wanted to be seen as your ally, in order to make this directive more binding and to enable the commission to enforce it more vigorously in the member states.
we have seen that the member states are also not complying with other environmental directives.
i believe that citizens have a right to the protection of the environment under the treaties.
we also have the goals (the sustainable development strategy).
the european union is even considered the world leader in environmental protection.
we must also consider the concerns of the environment, transport and even this parliament, ladies and gentlemen.
the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation.
the dried fruit sector is of great importance in the union from a social, economic and environmental point of view.
the dried fruit sector is an example of multifunctionality and is absolutely necessary for the socioeconomic maintenance of many families in rural areas of the union, for the objectives it fulfils in terms of land use planning - there being no other alternative production - and for the environmental functions it performs in terms of erosion, firefighting and the safeguarding of native genetic material, and which, on the other hand, has exceptional organoleptic characteristics.
the committee on agriculture has also noted the need to establish a definitive framework for aid to the sector, calling for permanent support in the form of aid per hectare to ensure that producers' incomes are maintained in a sustainable farming situation.
the environmental and protection aspects of a very important ecosystem in clear decline go beyond protecting this tree and its fruit linked to forest areas and ancestral pastoral cultures.
the amendments which have been adopted call for specific aid for hazelnuts to be granted to all organisations applying for it and not only to those which have been granted the improvement plans, as proposed by the commission; for the current levels of co-financing of these improvement plans to be maintained, since the commission wants to increase the co-financing by the states from 18 to 25%; for a phrase in recital 2 referring to the progressive transfer of financial responsibility to producers to be deleted and, finally, for a definitive system to be introduced based on the granting of aid per hectare conditional on the implementation of good agricultural and ecological practices.
it has done so in the knowledge that it is an essentially multifunctional crop, because of its contribution to environmental protection, the fight against erosion, land use planning (as it is one of the few activities that fix the population to the territory in places where there are no agricultural alternatives) and because of its economic and social function, since the production areas in the european union are also, for the most part, disadvantaged regions.
the fund must of course continue to fulfil its research mission on the search for varieties that are more suited to demand and as harmless as possible, as well as alternative uses of raw tobacco and its environmental impact, of course.
the commission has created a new policy framework with its communication on a strategy for sustainable development.
it also refers to the quality, environmental and hygiene standards of european products when imported, to protect the european consumer from fraudulent names, such as those for sardines or tuna.
i hope that, if the report is adopted, we will be able to meet the structural costs of the outermost regions on a permanent basis when marketing certain fishery products from these regions, which, as you know, are remote, insular and for the most part fragmented, where energy is scarce and there is a high dependence on the outside world.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i preferred the one we adopted last year, which seemed more balanced, because it reminded me and denounced very well the constant spraying of crops and the failure to promote alternative crops in order to avoid human diseases and the constant attack on biodiversity.
the commission will be proposing a new programme for the promotion of the environment in the european union.
that is why i said yesterday that i will demand the same rigor and energy on the clementines issue as on the steel issue if we are to maintain credibility and keep our heads high at the world trade organization.
i believe that balancing the process helps us all in a process which must maintain the balance between growth and social protection to ensure full employment and sustainable development.
among the agreements reached in barcelona, i would like to mention the following three: first, the process of liberalising the energy sector was opened up by establishing freedom of choice of supplier for the business sector in 2004. i think it is important to stress, with the european commission, that this measure is reinforced by the commitment to have a minimum level of electrical interconnections of 10% of its installed production capacity by 2005. it is now possible to say that we should have gone further, as my group wanted, but the truth is that the liberalization has been unblocked, something which, to be honest, few people thought could happen in barcelona, which will certainly generate dynamics which, we are convinced, should lead us to complete the process sooner than it may seem at the moment.
first of all, the city has been terribly disturbed for several days: traffic jams, a climate of insecurity, due to the massive presence of security forces.
the spanish presidency has sought to deepen the liberalization of the energy and transport markets.
however, in discussing these matters this morning in the committee on economic affairs with professor issing of the executive board of the european central bank, we agreed that we obviously welcomed these advances, but also considered them insufficient, both to ensure that the lisbon commitments are actually fulfilled - in the sense of the necessary structural reforms, in which there are obviously still no full guarantees to achieve what was set out, that is to say, a sustainable, internationally competitive economy, based on growth and ensuring economic and social cohesion - and even to consolidate the growth process that is currently under way.
we are not discussing the dogma of price stability; we are not defending or questioning the stability pact; we are not discussing the need and the urgency of speeding up structural reforms to achieve three things: a functioning market, the principle of social compensation and sustainable development.
as regards energy and gas, it has become abundantly clear since barcelona that liberalisation does not necessarily coincide with privatisation: whoever wants public companies to keep them.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the socialist group is very concerned about the lack of tangible proposals on the environment at the barcelona summit.
the barcelona council should have been the one to translate into concrete initiatives the objectives set out in gothenburg and lisbon for a new sustainable development strategy.
it is disappointing to see the poor environmental baggage we are taking to johannesburg.
the barcelona summit has repeated old vices by not taking the economic, social and environmental issues on an equal footing.
and this is all the more so if we take into account that in the case of spain, for example, the current holder of the presidency, the percentage of emissions is already exceeded by 23%.
we therefore say that declarations of intent alone will not help us to build a europe of sustainable development.
in the conclusions we find again the already obsolete sectoral conception of policies in contrast to the desirable combination of the economic-social and environmental aspects.
employment, transport, energy and research are again being dealt with in a sectoral way, without integrating the environmental dimension, and that is a step backwards, despite what mr prodi said, namely that steps forward have been made.
as mr jiménez-beltrán, director of the european environment agency, said: 'the european union will be sustainable or it will not be'.
on the other hand, there have been those who have insisted on some elements, those who have insisted on some elements while ignoring others, who are unaware of the true essence of the lisbon strategy, because the lisbon strategy is the right balance between reform and economic liberalisation, social cohesion, the needs of education and research and sustainable development.
i have heard repeated criticisms that sustainable development has not been sufficiently reflected.
the balance is positive if we focus on the very specific competences of the commission and of community policy, when we talk about progress on the question of pension guarantees, in the labour field, in the integration of markets, in the realization of europe, in the physical and spatial articulation of its own territory, for example through interconnections, whether energy or transport, in support of environmental policy, not only in the specific environmental chapter, where there are very important elements that have already been pointed out by mr de miguel a moment ago, such as the kyoto protocol or the commitments of monterrey.
in the energy field, very important progress has also been made with a directive on energy taxation, a matter which is undoubtedly key to the development model we are advocating in europe, which is not based on cheap energy, but on the contrary.
- mr president, commissioner, with the creation of the european aviation safety agency the european union aims to achieve and maintain a high level of safety and environmental protection, which is in the objective interest of european society and also of the construction of the union.
i would like to say, however, that safety and environmental protection have a lot to do with the airport structure, which is being seriously undermined by the tendency to centralize airports which prevails in most european countries and is promoted by central governments which, for political and power reasons, concentrate investments in capital, and by the so-called flag carriers which, for the same reasons, centralize their flights at the same airports.
all this is contrary to the sustainable development which we must pursue from the point of view of security, as well as economic, social and environmental aspects.
firstly, because they will test the ability and willingness of the electricity and electronics sector to maintain an attitude of active commitment to environmental protection, but also because they will test the ability and willingness of these european institutions, and of parliament in particular, to make a realistic and coherent approach, which the industry can take on board.
i think we must take a tough stance on manufacturers who do not take responsibility for their waste, in defence of those responsible manufacturers who do not have to bear the costs of free riders.
it is indeed crucial for the european union to pay attention to the future role of the mediterranean area in peace, economic development, democracy, energy supply and economic investment, which is why this report and the council meeting to be held in valencia on these issues are so important.
it must be achieved by intensifying political and mediterranean dialogue, addressing fundamental issues such as the necessary promotion of democratic values, the most fundamental rights - which are also so seriously undermined in the middle east conflict - the terrorist threat or issues related to economic cooperation, the environmental aspects of development, migration or drug trafficking.
macroeconomic stabilisation has indeed taken place successfully in most mediterranean countries, but reforms related to the business environment are not progressing at a sufficient pace.
i am glad that parliament supports our proposals to further this process, in particular in areas such as investments, environment, transport, infrastructures and energy.
however, it is clear that, both because of mobility - many meps have referred to the new but many problems of workers' mobility in the european union - and because of the common causes of sustainability problems, there is a need for cooperation.
another important and not least important point is the incubation period of the disease and, therefore, the determination of responsibilities in relation to it, as well as the need for prior or periodic medical examinations of workers who work at risk of asbestos, and precautions - as already mentioned here - for those who simply live in the environment and may be indirectly affected.
i very much understand why you so much insist on the need to increase the levels of protection, not only for workers but also for the general population and the environment.
objective: community programme for school environmental educationthe aim of the spring summits is to measure the integration of sustainable development into community policies.
how does the council intend to integrate this concept of environmental education into its proposals, which is absent from the priorities of the 'spanish presidency of the eu: more europe' programme'?
the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the monterrey conference on financing for development has taken place, and a world conference on sustainable development will be held in johannesburg at the beginning of september, where financing for development and all the actions developed in the cotonou convention have a preferential place.
the objective of reform must be to create an environment in which the risk capital market can flourish.
the commission will convey its concerns about the deteriorating political climate in chisinau to its moldovan counterparts at every opportunity, the next being the cooperation council in luxembourg next week.
this is the point that we need to assess together in order to put the necessary pressure but to avoid punishing all the states of nigeria indiscriminately or jeopardizing the creation of an environment conducive to change because it is this change that will be the result of our collective pressure and efforts.
and since the family is the basic unit of society and has the primary responsibility for the protection, upbringing and development of children, it is also essential to promote policies to help the family, which help to create the human environment necessary for the child to develop and to be able to integrate usefully into the community of which he or she is a part.
i think that this parliament must be sensitive to the loss of human lives, the loss of more than 400 houses and ask the commission to help economically, to show european solidarity with the canary islands and the valencian community, which have suffered the devastating consequences of climate change which is so affecting the mediterranean lately and, in this case, also the canary islands.
from the community's point of view, the most important element is of course the element of climate change, which we have included in our joint motion for a resolution, and the need to comply with the provisions of the kyoto protocol in order to ensure that this climate change does not cause the damage it is causing today, which can still be made worse.
the question at this stage is that, without questioning the proper use of these funds and their alignment with environmental considerations, it is clear that we are missing the fact that urban development in island areas such as this one in the canary islands and in other outermost regions leads to what we might call an abusive use of land, without taking into account other considerations.
in the implementation of this project we must ensure that in sectors such as agriculture criteria of sustainability, ecological, economic and social sense are considered for both sides of the mediterranean.
- mr president, as a spanish member of parliament, a valencian and a member of the popular party, i shall not waste much time in saying that the valencia summit has been a success.
i believe that culture, education, tourism and cultural dialogue are complemented by sustainable development and globalisation, the benefits of which are reflected in the territory itself that offers them, and this seems to me to be an example of good coexistence between a world that is modernizing and a world that still needs to incorporate change but has a great history.
so, basically, having to return this money as it is is a waste of opportunity.
these mismatches are largely concentrated in category 2, and we know that the first years of the implementation of regional and cohesion policy, the programming phase, consume a lot of time, resources and energy.
an example of this concern has been the introduction of title viii of the treaty, on employment, from amsterdam, with an important reference in luxembourg, as was also the lisbon european council in 2000, which established as a new strategic objective for the european union to become a competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion, thus achieving the necessary conditions for full employment.
the interaction of tourism with land use planning, its impact on the environment, the traditional agricultural sector, employment, transport and its essential infrastructure, and relations with other non-community countries producing and receiving tourism in which it generates wealth and employment, make it imperative that an operational decision be taken.
a thorough analysis of the impact of transport tax measures on tourism and its environmental impact should be carried out and, finally, the convention and the council should work towards this.
this will facilitate our work in attaining the objectives described in the communication, and in implementing these and other actions which could promote sustainable and competitive tourism in europe.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, and the commissioner for their help in drafting this report, and for the goodwill shown by the commission's officials in this area.
this cooperation aims to strengthen the structural mechanisms enabling universities to carry out sustainable cooperation beyond assistance granted through cooperation programmes and to better prepare the institutions of the european community and the institutions of the associated countries and territories to develop and consolidate partnerships.
and this is very useful for educating in many things, but especially in subjects such as the environment, to mention but one of the many that can benefit from education through sport.
there is plainly an intimate connection between our success, for example, in promoting sustainable development and demographic pressures.
the draft requests in question, in accordance with the negotiating proposals we had submitted previously and in line with the objectives we have already set out, concern a number of sectors, which i will mention briefly: the professions, business services, courier services, postal services, telecommunications, construction and engineering services, distribution, environmental services, financial services, tourism, travel, transport and energy.
i would like to express my deep concern about the outcome of the vote on the report presented to the committee on the environment, since, in my view, it takes our concern for consumer health to an irrational extreme.
i regret that the report adopted by the committee on the environment has not taken account at all of the main countries concerned and i hope that this situation will be resolved, if not in tomorrow's plenary session, then in the negotiations at the next progress council, in the negotiations which will have to be undertaken in the codecision process, since the measures will be difficult to achieve.
the report adopted by the committee on the environment has not, in my view, been sufficiently calibrated by all the countries and, moreover, it repeats this error.
among the challenges facing the european union and the countries of latin america and the caribbean is the need to modernise education systems, create an economic and social climate conducive to sustainable development and establish mechanisms for good governance.
both regions - i mean the european union and latin america and the caribbean in general - have committed themselves to working together to ensure the success of the world conference on sustainable development to be held in johannesburg next august, and to making a mutual commitment to success in something that is very important and in which latin american countries have a lot to say, which is the millennium round, with the trade issues that have recently been launched in doha.
by doing so, we will come closer together on issues of common concern, such as climate change, the development agenda agreed at doha, the international criminal court and human rights.
i agree with mr patten that such meetings have been criticised because the grand declarations made at them often do not translate into concrete objectives, and i understand that summits really do help to be the ritual staging of an underlying political will to generate the political energy needed to make the machinery work.
in madrid we must therefore strengthen the interinstitutional political dialogue in order to ensure a climate of confidence and to achieve appropriate relations.
the current growth in these countries, as the president-in-office of the council knows, is far below what is necessary not only to ensure sustainable development and to reduce poverty but also to stop the mass flight of hundreds of citizens, of thousands of people desperately seeking a chance not to die in their country.
the council has already stated that it will not accept the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
i think that's the same with sustainable development.
sustainable development is a term that appears in all european union documents.
it appears in all the documents of governments, but above all it appears in the documents of those who are dedicated to undermining sustainable development, that is to say, to promoting unsustainable development and a model of consumption which will not allow us to leave johannesburg - and i hope, of course, that i am wrong - with clear priorities and mechanisms of action.
the priority issues should be sustainable resource management and change in production models.
we have been saying for many years, and the world bank - none of whose members belong to our group - has also been saying it, that it has calculated that in the next thirty years the number of poor people in the world will more than double and that unless measures are taken to tackle poverty, marginalisation, environmental degradation, conflict, epidemics and migration, there will be serious economic and political destabilisation worldwide.
i believe that in recent years the awareness of the public about the environment has increased enormously, as have the political actions taken by heads of state and government in relation to it.
the united states will not sign it and, to take an example of a country which has committed itself, which is my country, spain, it has increased its emissions by 33% compared with what it had committed itself to do.
i think that is the way things are now and that, at this moment, after the barcelona summit, after johannesburg - where the question of the environment has not been widely discussed - i would not ask for that ambitious programme which too many people here are asking for.
- madam president, our colleague and friend, laura gonzález, began her speech with a quote from the argentine writer julio cortázar on the prostitution of the words democracy and sustainability, but this house does not forget where chernobyl is and does not ignore that mr castro's cuba is full of democrats, as we all know.
mr lannoye has proposed a report which has the double merit of tackling the problem of sustainable development with seriousness and rigour, and of doing so without fundamentalism, with the flexibility necessary to accept most of the amendments tabled by the political groups.
the report as a whole would indicate that the most important objectives are the fight against poverty and the promotion of sustainable development, the creation of avenues for a globalisation with a human face and not a virtual one, the commitment to a rational management of resources, and all this, of course, in the context of the necessary promotion of democratisation, the rule of law and the fight against corruption at all levels, not only in developing countries but especially in our western world.
however, each summit on development and the environment has marked a major turning point in the field of man's relationship with his environment.
the stockholm summit was a general awareness of the most serious attacks on our environment.
the rio summit defined a new scenario, that of sustainable development.
in the ten years between rio and johannesburg, a major change of scenery has occurred: a globalized society in which social and economic inequalities appear to be closely linked to environmental problems and the governance of all countries.
consequently, the only hope for sustainability on a global scale is to change the ways of production and consumption.
transparency and openness of markets, knowledge management, innovation management and technology transfer, efficiency of our processes and products, acceptance and practice of social and environmental responsibility by all sectors, are some of the most important.
in addition, food security affects other aspects of development and north-south relations, such as the sustainability of agriculture and world trade.
for all these reasons, the socialist group has made a special effort in this resolution and we have introduced the fundamental right to food security, the principle of food sovereignty and the freedom to choose agro-biological technologies, the consideration of water and biodiversity as inalienable public goods, the need for coherence in european policies, particularly between development policies, trade and the common agricultural policy, and the principle of proximity of production, processing and marketing of food products, including food aid.
b5-0291/2002 by mr vinci, mr sjöstedt and mr seppänen, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on violence in the state of gujarat (india); - the report (a4-0325/2002) by mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on intercommunal violence in the state of gujarat (india) (b5-0298/2002); - the report (b5-0299/2002) by mr lambert and mr messner, on behalf of the green group, on india (b5-0299/2002); - the report (b5-0304/2002) by mr sakellariou and mr carrilho, on behalf of the pse group, on the situation in india (b5-0304/2002);
- mr president, the climate of confrontation between religions, ethnic groups and civilizations, which is worsening all over the world and, in particular, in the indian region, is worrying.
the implication of the powers that be in the narrowing of this climate is also very worrying, as it points out that it is not a completely spontaneous phenomenon or the simple fruit of confrontations, but that it is being orchestrated to hide, many times, the real social problems that hit both sides.
we must take into account the climate of extreme tension and violence that we are experiencing, which has increased - i believe - since 9/11, and this alleged clash between civilizations, with the war in afghanistan and all that accompanies it, because it indicates that we are seeing the consequences of the process called 'globalization' which is gradually increasing inequalities and tensions, and, as a consequence, clashes between communities are emerging.
we are talking about a country where inequalities are widespread and where the physical environment and natural disasters often make life even more difficult for the population, and it is precisely in this territory that clashes between the followers of the major religions and those of other less numerous communities have permanently marked and stained the history of the largest democracy on the planet.
the reform proposed by the commission will lead to the loss of 28 000 jobs in an environment where there is still a clear discrimination by allowing supplementary catches to the northern countries against the southern countries.
we believe that this report lacks a reference to economic and social cohesion; it lacks a reference to the social fabric of coastal areas, which are also european; it lacks a reference to sustainable development; it lacks a reference to aquaculture; it lacks a reference to consumers, who also have rights; and we will all agree that, in order to improve our diet, doctors tell us that we must eat more fish.
the commission has tried to disguise a biased and partial proposal with an ecological veneer.
- mr president, mr fischler, you have succumbed to the anti-european nationalism of certain states which only want the fish monopoly for themselves; nothing to share, on the pretext of environmental fundamentalism which puts fish before human beings.
it also allows the scandalous waste of more than a million tonnes of fish that a member state destroys a year to be turned into animal feed without asking how that affects the food chain of the species itself.
the commission does take account of the well-intentioned concerns of environmental groups, but it puts them ahead of those of the fishing world itself and shamelessly sacrifices basic principles of the european union, such as economic and social cohesion in areas highly dependent on fisheries, all of them objective 1 areas.
we socialists call for sustainable management of resources, but we believe that this can only be achieved if fishermen are involved.
commissioner fischler, please leave your post to another commissioner who is less sectorial, more open and sensitive to the needs of the fisheries sector, and who will put forward measures compatible with genuine sustainable development.
based on the advice of scientists and seamen, the commission should clarify first the scale of the impact on fish stocks from industrial and rural pollution, nuclear waste and tanker shipwrecks.
you, commissioner, have put forward a proposal for a cfp which perfectly quantifies the waste and the jobs that will be lost, but leaves in the most impenetrable of nebulosities the solutions to alleviate the social and economic problems caused by your proposal.
is that what you call sustainable development?
do you know that when they ban modernization they also ban the sustainability of fisheries, they also ban a more environmentally friendly fishery, with those catch lines that fishermen are most interested in respecting?
with your proposals you are destroying the only fleet that creates jobs and at the same time protects the environment: the small-scale fleet.
the new regulation aims to ensure that motor vehicles are produced safely, benefit from highly reliable after-sales services and meet environmental standards.
the session on social policy and cooperation in cultural and educational matters covered cultural diversity, the danger of technological backwardness, education, equity and social cohesion, sustainable development and the environment.
the economic session also covered international financial architecture, bi-regional trade, international cooperation for sustainable development and development finance, measures to stimulate economic growth and development and, finally, regional integration processes.
mr president, the second european union-latin america and the caribbean summit took place at a time when the international environment was not the most favourable, either for one side or the other of the atlantic.
in addition to the economic difficulties following the attacks of 11 september, the difficult situation in several south american countries - the particular situation in venezuela one month after the serious crisis in april, the peace process interrupted in an electoral climate very much affected by the unacceptable terrorist violence in colombia, the deep crisis in which argentina is found - all this, together with european attention to enlargement and the various electoral processes taking place in these months in some countries of the european union, did not augur the best for the development of the summit.
we therefore propose that, without prejudice to the powers of the national authorities, we should be able to define priorities in the second pillar of the cap in order to make progress in defining a core of priority actions at community level to ensure sustainable development in the union.
we believe that within this measure and in the mid-term review we must strengthen the cross-compliance of aid and establish a link between the implementation of direct payments and the services provided in the area of multi-functionality, extending the cross-compliance measures in favour of sustainable rural development.
the co-financing requirement, as currently designed, creates a deficit of rural development actions in the poorest regions, which are the most in need, and the predominant actions in some countries often have little to do with sustainable rural development.
i believe that public policies should be policies which are aimed at specific objectives - sustainable development, job creation, social criteria - and which should in no way be incompatible with this business and economic vision of agriculture.
- commissioner, when agenda 2000 was signed in berlin in 1999, we all breathed a sigh of relief, because it opened a period of budgetary tranquility in which multifunctionality had firmly established its foundations and guaranteed the survival of a sustainable rural environment, where quality, safety and respect for the environment had found their place.
we all want farmers to contribute to the sustainable maintenance of rural areas, but rural areas cannot live without farmers, and if we try to achieve the ultimate objective at all costs, we run the risk of making a mistake in the means used, because we all want greater rural development, but this cannot be achieved by jeopardizing the profitability of agricultural activity.
this public opinion is increasingly sensitive to ecological theories, the defence of which could produce unintended effects against biodiversity by accumulations, without protection in smaller crops, which would present us with serious problems of shortage and dependence, could lead to not looking for solutions for essential uses, to setting parameters that exceed the limits of analytical determination or to having plant protection products evaluated by ngos interested in this.
i would ask the european commission and the commissioner and all the political groups in this parliament to exercise responsibility when voting, bearing in mind that without agriculture there is no sustainable development.
there may be agriculture without sustainable development, but the opposite is not true.
i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the thematic strategies must be applied to climate change policy and emissions.
there is also the risk that the implementation of policies will harm the rural environment; a misunderstood and generalist tax policy for certain products can cause tremendous harm to those who live far from the territory, who are taking care of the landscape, who are taking care of the environment.
i think that the shipping industry accepts and wants the objectives of the european union: to clean up the shipbuilding industry, to increase productivity, to improve the competitiveness of shipyards, to improve the environment, objectives that can be achieved in a situation of transparency and equality, but not from the disadvantage of dumping and unfair competition.
given the importance of this subject, especially for families and regions in the european union which depend solely on this activity, the majority of the members of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy have agreed on a consensus text, balanced and fair, which is none other than the european commission's proposal for a regulation.
it should also be remembered that this date is in some way subordinated to the security of energy supply that the european union needs, a factor that the european commission will certainly take into account when formulating new proposals.
the positions of those who wanted to abolish aid to this industry, which is essential for energy supply and social cohesion in our countries, were incorporated, on the one hand, and on the other hand, others would have liked to go further and have greater certainty about what will happen after 2010. for this reason, the report was rejected in committee and the president - that is, me - was instructed to take the necessary steps to remedy this problem, because we would have been left without the possibility of expressing an opinion on the council's decision.
secondly, because it also talks about co2 emissions, and it very well remembers that, with the decline in coal production, co2 emissions linked to its use have decreased, and because it argues that, with the current directives on emissions, industries are obliged to make their new processing plants more serious in the fight against pollution and to use the latest available techniques.
- mr president, the gothenburg european council recognises the need to integrate sustainable development into the other policies of the union on an equal footing with economic and social objectives.
that is why i support the environment committee's proposal which favours rail and other less polluting modes of transport and which also proposes combined transport solutions in a clearer way than the rapporteur's proposal on the substance.
- madam president, commissioner, given their importance for our progress, it is necessary to increase funding for the priority projects developing our transeuropean networks and also to give priority to rail, air and sea transport and their intermodality as less impactful and more environmentally sustainable alternatives to roads.
i also propose, as i have said in my amendments, that high-speed rail can be achieved not only by building new lines but also by upgrading existing lines in such a way as to avoid further damage to the landscape and the environment.
we are only just beginning, but globalisation is already here and it is clear that companies are protagonists in social life, they have rights but they must also have obligations to contribute to a more just society, more in line with the defence of human rights in the world, with the improvement of the environment, against discrimination and in favour of basic and fundamental labour standards.
it is wrong to think that it would be a burden on companies to introduce, as the howitt report does, social responsibility, boards with open participation by all, not just shareholders but also stakeholders and a social and environmental report, because those companies which, in the global society, act in accordance with these rules will be more profitable companies and will be able to operate much more easily in the world.
the committee chairman cannot withdraw it, so i am presenting it on behalf of the committee, but the fact is that i am in the same line as mrs lucas, that is to say, convinced of the need for the report on social and environmental matters to be binding.
i therefore fully support the howitt report by the committee on the environment.
this is obviously a much broader concept, which we could also relate to recital c of the report, which says that there is a general consensus developing among companies, among investors, that their mission is more than just making a profit, and that the challenge of success lies in combining profitability with sustainability and responsibility.
as stated in the green paper, if the main responsibility of the company is to generate profits, it can also - and simultaneously - contribute to the achievement of social and environmental objectives, and such achievement should not be considered only the obligation and responsibility of companies of a certain entity or operating in certain sectors.
i believe that it is a good instrument for implementing the lisbon strategy: an economy as developed as possible, creating more and better jobs, respecting the environment and ensuring social cohesion.
lisbon, nice, stockholm, and more recently the barcelona summit, are dates, are places, are cities, are memories of summits that mark the social temperature of the european union, dates of the european union's commitment to the best and most developed economy, to the creation of more and better jobs, to sustainable development and to social cohesion.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new community rules on the protection of the environment.
and now we have a challenge, that this agency should operate effectively and transparently, but not only in two important areas - safety in maritime transport, passenger and cabotage transport and protection of the marine environment - but also in those small details or areas which seem to have no relevance to the big issues, such as recreational boating - for example, the issue of motorcycles and watercraft which cause concern to european citizens.
- mr president, perhaps the results of the preparations for the johannesburg conference would not have been so poor - and the outlook for the conference itself so unoptimistic - if the parties had had greater awareness and, above all, the ability to look beyond their partial and short-term interests and to realise that we are facing a turning point of extreme importance, not only for the achievement of so-called sustainable development - although this alone is well worth all the effort - but for the achievement of security and governance on a global scale.
in the ten years between rio and johannesburg, there has been a momentous shift towards a globalised society, in which social and economic inequalities appear to be closely linked to environmental problems and governance in all countries.
after almost 30 years of policies aimed at reconciling economic development, the environment and social welfare, i believe we know quite well the range of tools and measures that must be applied to achieve equitable growth in a globalised world: transparency and openness of markets, management of knowledge and innovation, technology transfer, efficiency of our processes and our products, acceptance and practice of social and environmental responsibility by all sectors - these are some of the most important measures.
we need to arrive in johannesburg with the strongest possible coalition between government, civil society and the productive sector, to jointly address the major challenges of global sustainability and equity.
it is important, however, that when the community allocates funds for trying to combat poverty and provide the basis for sustainable development, those funds are fully and effectively spent.
more specifically, we will look at tourism satellite accounts to measure the economic impact of tourism, and on a european agenda 21 for tourism to promote the sustainable development of tourism.
for the mainstream programmes which represent over 90 % of the financial envelope available in the structural funds, the commission has set clear guidelines which explicitly encourage the support of a balanced and sustainable development of tourism, in particular through three activities: firstly, the modernisation of tourism-related infrastructures and the improvement of their efficiency;secondly, upgrading skills and professional profiles in order to respond better to the expectations of tourists and the needs of the industry;thirdly, encouraging business-to-business partnerships, public-private cooperation and networking in order to improve the integration of the different services involved in the “tourism chain”.
in conclusion, tourism development should be carefully planned so as to take into consideration the carrying capacity of the site with regard to environmental, social and economic impacts.
secondly, i agree with you that in those areas where there is a rural population it is easier to guarantee sustainable development.
i would also like to thank the members of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, who, without being rapporteurs, have participated in this work and have made a useful contribution.
on the other hand, the multifunctionality of agriculture is taken as such, as are the aspects of sustainable rural development and support for biodiversity, which proves that our concern is not only for genomics, but also for biodiversity as a natural resource, which can be interesting in many ways.
on the other hand, with regard to the amendments on science and society, we fully agree with your amendments which call for the involvement of citizens and stakeholders, such as patient associations or environmental protection, in the debate on science and society, and with the amendments which stress the important role of teachers and the media in a better understanding of science.
the commission attaches great importance to the management of radioactive waste.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner which would be contrary to the interests of the community.
we think that the amendments are acceptable, including those which emphasize the priority of environmental issues, in particular the protection of ecosystems and food security.
i met with officials from the international atomic energy agency in vienna who asked us to share some of our expertise with them so that we could, precisely, have a better grasp of these dissemination issues.
i believe that mr souchet is no longer with us, but his question about nuclear energy is obviously a general one.
in comparison, i think that the july part-session, as mrs quisthoudt-rowohl and the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy proposed yesterday, will obviously be very important, because we will be ready to implement the sixth framework programme which is part of the european research area.
it is true, mr president, that we have spoken about everything: sustainable development, the spirit of lisbon, the institutionalisation of the union, the peripheral regions - but if we look at the progress made - on any of the issues mentioned - we will come to the conclusion that there is a great asymmetry between what is said and what is done.
what about the great challenge of the swedish presidency, sustainable development?
now, in the barcelona summit resolution, sustainability was mentioned 103 times.
yes, i know that the climate in the middle east was not the most favourable, but we were not even able to carry out one of the few concrete priorities of the spanish presidency, the euro-mediterranean bank.
the euro, the internal market, common policies and a wider community budget must contribute to the establishment of an efficient european economic government capable of fostering economic growth and sustainable development, improving the distribution of income and achieving full employment.
i think it is necessary to point out that the important thing about a summit - and that is what we expect from seville - is that it can generate enough political energy to move the european union project forward.
they are replacing the adoption of legislation and policies to manage migration flows with the writing of notes and press releases that contribute to creating a problematic climate.
on the environment, we stress the need to close all units of the kozloduy nuclear power plant within a reasonable period of time and that the bulgarian government should also fully guarantee the protection of the environment.
this year we will have received 12 million visitors, with the benefits that this will undoubtedly bring, but with the sometimes devastating effects that this will have on our sustainable development: in some islands the annual number of tourists far exceeds the number of permanent residents, which now creates a number of problems, which will increase in the future if we do not help to correct this trend, which is what this regulation is aiming at.
we want the ecological reports to be accompanied by economic and social reports, and to take account of the sector which has been fishing in the same places for several generations, and they do not understand the commission's proposal, in view of the results they are getting, and they are calling for the choice of other, wider and more rigorous biological reference points.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the effects of the crisis.
our group has rejected from the beginning of the debate the so-called 'voluntary agreements' with the motor industry, proposed by the commission to improve the protection of the most vulnerable groups, as it is a system which can leave the door open to other extra-legislative agreements, relating to transport and the environment, something which worries us, because of the lack of an interinstitutional agreement on this.
there are signs of progress, but member states must not waste time.
finally, we must first of all create a climate favourable to entrepreneurship.
we must concentrate on getting political action on the right track, so that the right environment for business can be created in the eu, not by looking at projects that are so small - as profitable as they can be.
- the next item is the report (a5-0147/2002) by mr belder, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission 'eeurope 2002: accessibility of public websites and their contents' (com (2001) 529 - c5-0074/2002 - 2002/2032 (cos)).
the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
- mr president, commissioner, we believe in the concept of the single market and in the community principle of the free movement of persons, capital, services and goods, but we also defend the quality of life of people and the environment.
reliable statistics on congestion on the transeuropean networks, their peak days and times, etc., and the ecological impact of high traffic densities are also needed to better protect our environment.
finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr savary, on the quality of his report and on the fact that after two previous unsuccessful attempts, he has succeeded in bringing to the attention of this parliament's plenary session a harmonizing regulation on restrictions on the movement of transport, which is so necessary for the smooth functioning and the good coexistence of the market and people and for the environment in europe.
in order to meet the commitments made by the union in kyoto, consideration should be given to the partial replacement of fossil fuels by fuels that do not increase the greenhouse effect.
in this context, the white paper on transport policy forecasts that carbon dioxide emissions from transport will increase by 50% between 1990 and 2010. according to the estimates in this white paper, road transport accounts for 84% of these emissions.
the commission's green paper on the security of energy supply foresees that by 2020, alternative fuels should account for 20% of total consumption.
the directive provides in particular that pilot projects aimed at the technological development of less polluting products, including fuels from renewable resources, may benefit from these exemptions.
from an ecological point of view, it is by no means obvious that the balance of products which the directives in question tend to favour, namely biofuels or agrofuels which can be blended with oil (biodiesel and bioethanol), is of real interest.
it is questionable whether considerations of reducing the greenhouse effect are not the secret of the oil companies, the refining chemical industries, the automobile industry and industrial agriculture.
the amendment we tabled therefore aims to make the size of the tax reductions dependent solely on the ecological interest of the products and uses.
a specialised distribution network and engines adapted to run exclusively on biofuels can then be set up and the energy balance will be very favourable.
in substance, while we agree with the 2% biofuel target for 2005, we are opposed to the 5.75% target for 2010. we are calling for a redefinition of the quantitative targets after an environmental impact assessment which takes into account alternative uses of biomass.
before i go on, i would like to emphasize the cooperation and good synchronization which i have had with the alternative rapporteur, mrs rothe, and with the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, mr kronberger, since we are dealing with a hughes procedure.
this parliament, both in the committee on industry and in the committee on the environment, despite the amendments which have been tabled - and there have been many - proposing indicative targets, has approved by a very large majority that the targets should be binding.
it is not a directive with an environmental end-goal but it has a significant environmental impact.
some say there are other, cheaper ways to reduce co2 emissions.
i think that each country in the european union will try in the coming years to achieve the reduction in co2 emissions that we have set for the year 2020 under the kyoto protocol and, depending on their circumstances, some will put more emphasis on the use of biofuels and others on wind power, etc.
moreover, it goes without saying that each member state is sovereign to decide in its own case to what extent it compensates for the loss of revenue via excise duties if it reduces its co2 emissions thereby.
in relation to the policy of information and interinstitutional transparency in general, i am a strong supporter - particularly in matters relating to the environment, which seem to be of a high sensitivity and which are doubly important - of everyone being informed in good time of the development of the various programmes.
in addition, the introduction of biofuels is also one of the few possibilities for reducing our dependence on oil and co2 emissions in this sector.
the status of the matter under discussion is as follows: the council has repeatedly discussed these initiatives, both in the energy council and in the ecofin council.
in view of the position of most of the member states and the need - which i believe is absolutely crucial - to develop a stable system within a stable framework, mainly from the fiscal point of view, to promote the use of biofuels, the commission could accept that a solution similar to that proposed by the directive on electricity from renewable sources should be applied to biofuels.
i would also like to say that i welcome all the amendments which give priority to the environmental aspect in the case of biofuels.
i want to tell you that a minimum saving of 45% of co2 emissions - in some biofuels it is much higher, around 80%, and there are even higher - seems to me essential.
i would point out that an improvement of 45%, for example, in the matter of co2 emissions is an element that must be taken into account.
as regards the environmental aspects, i would like to say that there are some amendments which we cannot accept, such as amendments nos 1, 5, 6, 25 - someone mentioned them earlier; i am sorry, we cannot accept them - 37, 41, 44, 60 and 66 because they would impose an additional burden which we cannot bear or would suggest going too far with this proposal.
the commission is aware that energy consumption in the transport sector is a complex issue.
we cannot accept some amendments which, for example, exclude the use of biofuels in captive vehicle fleets or which empty the proposal of its content, as well as amendments nos 11, 17, 27, 33, 40, 48, 50, 51, 52, 56, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66 and part of no 19. we need to make a decision on energy supply in transport, we cannot delay any longer the start of work to reduce our dependence on oil.
advocacy campaigns and declarations of goodwill are useful but not enough to change the energy situation in europe.
our proposal to promote biofuels will open up a new market for renewable energy technologies and clarify your strategic decision to be able to exploit their potential.
- report (a5-0196/2002) by mr rübig, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the report from the commission to the european parliament and the council on the operation of the euratom safety audit office in 1999-2000 (com (2000) 436 - c5-0535/2001 - 2001/2214 (cos))
the commission is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and that it is not yet in a position to take a decision on the matter.
as far as nuclear energy is concerned, you know my position.
it is a controversial issue, but clearly, in view of the new problems related to climate change and other issues, in my view - as i have said repeatedly - it is something absolutely inevitable.
these projects, which fully meet the priorities of sustainable development, are among the most complex from both a technical and a financing point of view.
in the energy field, the recent communication on energy infrastructure identified many missing links in electricity interconnections between member states, and the barcelona council set a very ambitious target of cross-border interconnection capacity of at least 10% of the union's generation capacity by 2005. in order to support all these projects, the financial regulation for transeuropean networks currently in force allows for studies to be co-financed up to 50% and works up to 10%, the latter ceiling not to be exceeded under any circumstances.
in the energy sector, the increased rate of support will apply to the 12 priority projects identified by the commission in its recent communication on energy infrastructure, which are not always financially viable.
the aim is therefore clear: to enable community financial support to play its full catalytic role, including in the project implementation phase, and to make investments in crossborder transport and energy infrastructure more attractive to private financing.
amendment no 14 which establishes constraints falling outside the scope of the regulation, and amendment no 15 which substantially alters the nature of the commission proposal by deleting the energy part.
there are other amendments which the commission can accept partially, but only partially: amendment no 3, the wording of which is confusing because the development phase of energy projects can already, under the present system, benefit from a support rate of up to 50%; the second and third paragraphs of amendment no 7 cannot be accepted because they are confused with the structural funds.
finally, i would draw your attention to the fact that the commission's proposal covers only two sectors, transport and energy.
finally, of the 15 amendments, all of which i have not mentioned: 1, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 11, the commission can accept all of them, with some editorial changes if necessary, because they go in the direction of strengthening the scope of our proposal and, in particular, i would like to stress that we share parliament's concern about the need, in the next financial perspective, to obtain a budget that is up to the ambitions that we all have set very high for the transeuropean transport and energy networks.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m. (the sitting was closed at 8.50 p.m.)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
it is interesting to have energy - and we are in favour of liberalising energy, not just privatising it - but we must look after public services and job creation.
and in connection with enlargement, i understand that mr poettering, in the pre-election climate in germany, attacked chancellor schröder as a candidate.
(applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, the months of your presidency have been enough for you to turn into a caricature what was agreed in previous presidencies on immigration and asylum, women's education and work, sustainable development.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of convergència democràtica de catalunya and coalición canaria, we note that the achievements listed by the president-in-office of the council represent outstanding progress, from the galileo programme to the liberalisation of the energy sector, achieved in barcelona, to the control of illegal immigration or the consolidation of the status of the outermost regions, in seville.
or is the creation of a genuine internal energy market not a milestone that was unthinkable just a few years ago?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
but to hear things like genes going out to the environment ... i would really appreciate a little more rigour in the speeches.
i don't know of any gene that's ever been released like that and floated out into the environment.
question no 60 by mr papayannakis (h-0469/02) subject: mission of the commission's directorate for the environment in greece a mission from the commission's environment directorate recently visited greece for the second time in three months to investigate cases of complaints against the country.
what was the commission's assessment of the violations of community environmental law in greece?
is the commission aware of the extent to which third countries currently fishing for the 'pescaíto' have committed themselves to respecting the environment and conserving stocks?
does the commission not think that the proposals it is putting forward under the cfp, under the false pretext of sustainability, are in fact intended to do away with the small-scale fleet, the only one that creates jobs and respects the environment, in favour of a more powerful industrial fleet that does not care at all about the state of stocks?
finally, i would like to point out that in our proposals for the reform of the common fisheries policy we are clearly committed to responsible and sustainable fishing, also in waters outside the community.
the reality is that the failure of the negotiations with morocco, together with the proposals for a cfp with a sustainability criterion, which is also of concern to us, will lead to the virtual disappearance of the artisanal fleet.
my question is, commissioner, in view of this same concern for sustainability, would you accept my invitation and that of my group to visit the andalusian fishing grounds, to come fishing with us for a couple of days, to see the sustainability problems, the social, economic problems and the alternatives?
the question of how to ensure sustainable fisheries in the mediterranean is certainly a very important one.
we believe that this will help to reduce inequalities, and also to assess the impact of social, environmental and economic aspects in the field of health.
we want an agricultural policy which has a sense of sustainable development, but you cannot say that this is going to be discussed and that you are going to wait four years.
as regards fisheries, we must also pursue a policy of sustainable development, but applying the principles of humanity and respect for the environment and social cohesion, which i believe we all share.
the responsibility we had at that time in the area of food safety was very important, but this parliament also has the responsibility to find solutions for an economic sector which also plays a fundamental and necessary environmental role by recycling highly polluting products.
the last opportunity is this meeting in johannesburg on sustainable development, where, in addition to reaching commitments on this issue, we must take up again, by adopting concrete measures, what has not been done in the previous ones and, as the commissioner has said, with a global view.
– mr president, first i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr medina ortega and the members of the committees on legal affairs and the internal market on the environment, public health and consumer policy for all their helpful work on this issue.
the council has since then discussed the impact of industrial fishing on the environment on several occasions, but the council has never adopted a common position on this subject.
question no 13 by mr newton dunn (h-0405/02) subject: reduction of greenhouse gases in view of the binding commitments made by the 15 member states under the kyoto protocol to reduce their emissions of the six greenhouse gases, what are the plans of the council itself to limit its own energy consumption?
- i would like to assure mr newton dunn that the council is strongly in favour of the implementation of the kyoto protocol and i would also like to assure him that the council considers the energy consumption of buildings to be a very important issue.
i would refer to a resolution on energy efficiency in the european community adopted in 1998, and i would also refer to the conclusions adopted by the council on 30 may 2000 and 5 december 2000 respectively on the commission's action plan on energy efficiency, in which it called for specific measures in the building sector.
the council also recognised the importance of energy efficiency in the conclusions adopted on 10 october 2000 on common and coordinated policies and measures in the union to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, thereby contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the european climate change programme.
as regards the specific measures proposed in the action plan, the commission has in the meantime submitted to the council a proposal for a directive on the energy performance of buildings.
the new approach to technical harmonisation and standardisation provides for the free movement of goods and a high level of health, consumer and environmental protection.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i think that this self-restraint is particularly detrimental to the principles of responsible fishing which the community advocates and which it should promote in all forums, in accordance with article 174 of the treaty, which tells us that the community's policy in this field will contribute to achieving 'the promotion of measures at international level to deal with regional or global environmental problems'.
i believe that the presence and leadership of the community in the rfmos is necessary to protect the sustainability of resources equally strongly in european and non-european waters - as the commission itself has said - and to ensure that the interests of the nations that practice high-altitude fishing are duly taken into account, in the same way that the interests of the coastal states are taken into account.
in view of all this, i think it would be better to start the reform of the cap by giving the commission the necessary financial management instruments, establishing equity in access to community seas and fisheries, always within the principle of sustainable development.
but alongside this economic vitality, we place sustainable development and social cohesion.
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are voting on tomorrow has kept us very busy in the committee on the environment over the last few months, and especially the rapporteur, mrs corbey, whom i want to congratulate, because it is not an easy dossier and she has had to work hard on it.
we are discussing a directive which must have sufficient flexibility to allow national laws to adapt to it and, moreover, we cannot force consumers to separate waste from packaging to facilitate collection.
we also believe that a prevention target is not necessary, because for environmental and economic reasons, such as the payment of the green dot, which exists in some countries like mine, the industry is already trying to reduce as much as possible the amount of material used for the manufacture of packaging.
we are in favour of shared responsibility, so that the manufacturer uses the optimum amount of resources to ensure that the product is properly packaged, that the consumer cooperates in the collection of waste and that municipal authorities manage the volume of waste and recover value where possible.
i agree with the commissioner that the 1994 directive has some positive aspects, in that to a greater or lesser extent all member states distribute waste at source, recover, recycle and reuse waste.
i also agree with the rapporteur that in this as in other aspects of environmental policy, it would be necessary, with regulations, directives and decisions, to simplify and consolidate legislation.
for its part, as we saw in johannesburg, producers are responsible for using materials that produce little waste, they must take into account greenhouse gas emissions, landfills and the protection of scarce natural resources.
these materials can be recycled at low cost and with high environmental benefits.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the prevention of waste from landfills and the disposal of waste from landfills is a good one.
however, this question needs to be further examined in the light of the criteria on which the avoidance should be based, whether on environmental impact or weight.
it cannot be excluded that the overall environmental impact of such a measure would be negative, especially if the measure would merely result in an increased use of lightweight packaging such as plastic.
the obligation to minimise environmental impact in the choice of packaging based on life cycle concepts can be accepted in principle as proposed, although such an approach may require further development.
they will therefore be designed with all the flexibility required to take account of the economic, social and environmental constraints of the acp countries.
maintaining or increasing imports of these non-surplus products, such as soybeans and maize, of non-gmo origin, from developing countries, should be an important part of our cooperation policy, but, in parallel, it should also be a priority to promote self-sufficient and sustainable agricultural systems within the most disadvantaged areas of the european union, generators of employment and maintainers of the rural population, indigenous genetic resources and the necessary production of biofuels.
it is also important to remember that the european union is committed to reducing co2 emissions and that one of the possible ways is to facilitate the cultivation of biofuels, which is all the more reason why the european parliament supports the report by the committee on agriculture and rural development in favour of promoting these crops and reducing, if not eliminating, the external dependence that so many problems in terms of supply, quality and safety can cause us with our legislation.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this summer we have experienced a real environmental, economic and cultural catastrophe in central europe.
finally, mr president, i believe that in our approach to sustainable development we must be more humble and respectful of nature, which has a memory and returns.
we must act more firmly on the road to a policy of sustainable development and, above all, of strengthening solidarity between us.
however, france and spain only grant public subsidies for the promotion of solar energy to solar panels and systems manufactured by foreign producers if they have also been tested in accordance with the national testing standards and procedures in force, even if en test certificates have already been issued.
this proposal has given rise to a very important debate in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy of this parliament on a very specific aspect and it is, once again, the sale at a loss.
i am pleased to see that the committee on legal affairs and the internal market has incorporated the view of the committee on the environment into its amendments, and i congratulate mr beysen, rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, and mrs patrie, rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on this.
this consistency is due to two reasons: firstly, because in the long run a competitive economic environment is certainly conducive to the creation of sustainable employment, and secondly because competition policy has the flexibility - as this regulation shows - to reconcile general rigour with the possibility of state aid when duly justified.
it is also clear, and i want to stress this, that most of the abandoned children and those who suffer horror in their own homes are in this situation precisely because their family environment has been broken or never existed or is broken.
more than 40 initiatives have been launched in areas as diverse as money laundering, illegal migration, human trafficking, child welfare, human rights, environmental protection, educational exchange, lifelong learning and people-to-people interaction.
the summit is also expected to discuss economic, financial and monetary integration as a factor of growth and the wto development round as an essential prerequisite for sustainable economic development.
the discussions during the third working session will also cover environmental issues, including a discussion of the possibilities for the asem partners to consolidate and expand cooperation in the field of the environment, also in the light of the johannesburg meeting.
apart from the regular asem meetings of foreign and finance ministers, which will be complemented soon by an economic ministers' meeting in denmark, we have had different ministerial meetings on the environment and on managing migration.
parliament will know that in an environment where these things cannot be achieved at lightening pace that is a pretty good achievement and an indication of the priority that we are giving asia.
next year the commission will be coming forward with a communication which will seek to put our trade, commercial, environmental, economic and political relationships with south-east asia in a sensible context.
- question no 13 by mrs astrid thors (h-0547/02): purpose: to conclude the agreement on the multilateral environmental programme in the nuclear field in the russian federation the commission (dg external relations) states that for much of 2001, bilateral work on eu-russia relations focused on, inter alia, the fields of energy, environmental protection and nuclear safety.
the aim was to conclude an agreement on a 'multilateral environmental nuclear programme in the russian federation' (mnepr) for the treatment of radioactive waste in north-western russia and to work in the context of the northern dimension environmental partnership (ndep).
in addition, the commission's press release (27 may 2002) ahead of the ninth eu-russia summit (moscow, may 2002) indicated that the topic of 'environment and nuclear safety' would be discussed and that it would be important to convince the russian federation to finalise the mnepr agreement as soon as possible.
- negotiations on the multilateral nuclear and environmental programme in the russian federation have been under way for more than three years.
the eu attaches great importance to nuclear safety in north-western russia and believes that this agreement will help to overcome some of the obstacles to the implementation of projects which can promote cooperation on safety in the management of irradiated nuclear fuel and radioactive waste in the russian federation.
the initial donor conference on the environmental partnerships support fund under the annual dimension was concluded with a positive result on 9 july this year in brussels.
the question of nuclear safety is of vital importance for the protection of the environment on the european continent.
i am thinking of kaliningrad, of nato enlargement and of eu enlargement, and i am thinking of the environmental problems in the murmansk region, which mrs thors knows better than i do.
- the supplementary questions should always deal with the russian federation and the problem of nuclear energy in the context of relations with russia.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0255/2002), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council providing for public participation in the drawing up of certain plans and programmes relating to the environment and amending council directives 85/337/eec and 96/61/ec (5475/1/2002 - c5-0227/2002 - 2000/0331 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs korhola)
- mr president, the minutes of the first hour of the sitting on monday recorded a number of petitions - up to 200 - from july and august.
the ombudsman's and the committee on petitions' statistics say that 40% of these petitions relate to breaches of community law in the environmental field.
mr president, if these measures for public participation in the preparation of certain plans and programmes relating to the environment were really put into practice, if the directive on the right of the public to information were really respected, i am convinced that a very important part of these petitions, which are recorded every month in the minutes, would probably not reach us here, because what we do see in the committee on petitions, to which all these petitions are sent, is that not only is the public not allowed to participate in these environmental programmes, but sometimes they are denied the information that the directive on the right to information should guarantee them.
i believe, mr president, that if we can get the amendments of this second reading through, and if that third pillar of the legal aspects which the rapporteur has mentioned can come to this parliament and be discussed and have a good outcome, we will get this list of environmental requests down each and every session.
– mr president, my colleague, mrs wallström, is attending the world summit on sustainable development.
the first meeting of the parties to the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation and access to justice in environmental matters will take place at the end of october.
this common position deals with the second pillar of the convention, public participation in environmental decision-making.
in addition, other recent community legislation already incorporates the principles of the aarhus convention concerning public participation and the common position on access to environmental information is under consideration.
the commission is happy that the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy as a whole share this positive view and also support the commission's position on the outstanding issue.
the commission therefore fully supports amendment no 15. regarding the extension of the public participation provisions to cover other community legislation plans and programmes which may have a significant effect on the environment, amendment no 18 proposes extending considerably the scope of article 2 to cover other community legislation, plans and programmes, which may have a significant effect on the environment or health.
in addition, public participation in the preparation of legislation is referred to as soft law under the aarhus convention.in regard to plans and programmes, the amendment would considerably deviate from the original approach to cover clearly identified plans and programmes in the environmental field.
in respect of plans and programmes in other sectors likely to have significant environmental effects, directive 2001/42/ec on strategic environmental assessment already incorporates measures of particular relevance.
this directive provides for an environmental assessment of relevant plans and programmes in the integration sectors.
article 9(2) of the aarhus convention explicitly requires access to justice in relation to projects that may have a significant effect on the environment.
it would also be inconsistent to apply it to certain plans and programmes when it is not provided for in the case of those covered by the directive on strategic environmental assessment.
i believe that from now on we must implement a policy of proximity, of accessibility, and that is what sustainable development is all about: bringing education closer to individuals, making it more flexible.
in this sense, i believe that we must carry out these policies of expansion throughout the territory and prevent education, by moving, from causing a disconnection, as it is doing, in many women from their environment.
and yet, curiously enough, we are experiencing a process of alienation - which many call inbreeding - from the university in relation to the system and the environment, and the commission itself and european policies are not taking sufficient account of the role that universities could play as consultants, institutions or disseminators of the community acquis.
we must not forget that young people who divide their time between studies and sport have neither the energy nor the time to devote themselves to other activities that we would all discourage.
this will promote understanding between the various authorities and facilitate the establishment of a climate of trust.
(es) mr president, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy had originally considered that, for procedural reasons, urgency should not be allowed, and that is because it is the third or fourth time that the council has proposed urgency on these questions to us, when it really should have submitted them in time for parliament to take a decision within the usual time limits.
the report calls for stricter control of transfrontier movements of genetically modified organisms, not to distort trade - as has been said here - but to preserve biodiversity, the health of the population and the right of citizens to choose.
mr president, we believe that mr sjöstedt's report is not motivated by any other interest, economic or lobbyist, except the defence of health, biodiversity and the right of citizens to choose.
on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank her and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for the resolution on the postponement of the entry into force of the ban on the marketing of cosmetics tested on animals.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment.
if the commission was negligent about the waste to be disposed of, and i know the extent of this because i have spoken about it, how can we explain, mr seppänen, that the results are so different from one country to another?
- the next item is the report (a5-0294/2002) by mr bradbourn, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the granting of community financial assistance to improve the environmental performance of the freight transport system (com (2002) 54 - c5-0054/2002 - 2002/0038 (cod)).
(es) mr president, commissioner, everyone is aware of the congestion on european roads and the considerable external costs of transporting goods on them, such as accidents, noise, pollution, climatic effects, provision and maintenance of infrastructure, etc.
it is estimated that the total transport of goods by road in the union will increase by 50% by 2010 at the rate of - as the commissioner has very well said - 12 000 million tonnes per kilometre each year, and it is clear that neither the transeuropean networks nor our environment will be able to withstand the brutal impact of this growth.
we must therefore take measures which, far from affecting our economic growth and progress, ensure its sustainability.
i am delighted that both the commission and the parliament share largely the same vision on how to actively promote sustainable transport.
in any case, mr president, i am very concerned about this, and i would ask you to convey it to mr cox, because such attitudes do not help to create a climate of calm and composure in complex debates and do not make it easier for us to establish good working methods.
but the concern is that it does not create a climate and intoxication.
secondly, the negative role of the united states, which, for example, pressed for no agreement on renewable energy, to the countries that it can press - which i fear will soon be too many.
that is a sentiment i have to express and that is why i share the critical spirit of the resolution of the committee on the environment, which recalls very well that, in matters such as the defence of biodiversity, in matters such as renewable energy, there are no clear and concrete objectives.
(es) mr president, commissioners, if we are critical of the outcome of the johannesburg world summit on sustainable development, it is because we really expected much more.
we know the critical situation of the planet, the deterioration, pollution, lack of natural resources, also the extreme poverty of a large part of the population that causes them to die, to live in unworthy conditions, that forces them to emigrate to other parts of the world where such conditions do not exist.
the truth is that the circumstances do not help much: presidential elections in brazil in the coming weeks; spectacular devaluation of the real in recent days, fall of the brazilian stock exchange; pollution in uruguay; presidential elections and permanent crisis in argentina in march; presidential elections, also, in april next year in paraguay - if they happen to be held, given that, when the delegation was in this country last july, the state of exception was decreed.
as regards the efforts of the member states to remedy the situation in the mercosur countries, they participate fully and actively in the work of the imf to ensure stability and sustainable economic recovery in the region.
the measures taken to support paraguay, uruguay and, most recently, brazil, have been supported by the eu member states and work is under way to ensure a strong, sustainable and credible imf programme for argentina, as outlined in the council conclusions of 21 january 2002. the question by mr barón crespo, on behalf of the pse group, states that the negotiations on the association and free trade agreement with mercosur are expected to be completed in 2003. the parties have not set a deadline for the conclusion of the negotiations, which therefore depends on how they develop.
the approval of imf assistance as such is based on its own criteria and is tied to sustainable economic programmes proposed by the governments of the countries affected by financial or economic problems.
finally, the commission adopted in august a substantial cooperation package in favour of the mercosur countries covering eur 200 million for the period 2002-2006. these programmes will support regional integration, economic reform, social development and poverty alleviation, modernisation of the state and protection of the environment.
the only answer to poverty in latin america is sustainable economic development.
we can only have sustainable economic development when we have sustained investment.
in addition, the use of fuels complying with the new requirements in older vehicles reduces conventional pollutant emissions and improves air quality.
it is true that the relative importance of such emissions increases as the environmental performance of engines in road vehicles improves.
it is clear that the objective of this directive is one hundred per cent environmental and for that reason it is applauded by everyone.
however, thanks to technological advances in vehicle engines and catalysts, a positive balance can now be achieved in the reduction of co2 emissions, because those from refineries will be lower than those that will be emitted by vehicles using the new fuel.
in other words, if the balanced production and availability of new fuels is not achieved at the same time as the renewal of the vehicle fleet, an overall increase in emissions can occur, and this at a considerable cost.
biofuels are also a good option for improving the quality of air in our cities and, above all, for diversifying energy sources.
we also welcome the introduction of preventive measures to prevent the destruction of cultural and environmental heritage, which are, of course, the main concerns of european citizens.
i believe that in this situation, which is developing in a relatively favourable way, strong and mature criteria must be applied to resume the war against terrorism, and this requires that europe apply two priorities: a rapid convergence within the united nations and its security council and, secondly, all the energy so that the future task of the inspectors can be successfully completed.
the european union must become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth, accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion.
this impact must also be made in specific material or competence areas, such as the service economy or the environment, and, of course, with the participation of the social partners, in a fluid, easy communication between the professional and educational sectors, taking very specifically into account the importance of training and educational systems for the development of a culture of mobility, by horizontalising policies, for example, equality and others, because the different options are not isolated and exclusive compartments but part of a whole, of a set of actions that aims to develop the european social model and to make the principles that visionaries, i say this with respect, intuited more than 50 years ago a reality.
the text which is now before us is a response to the unwanted but unfortunately probable future situations which both the unbalanced climate regime and the changing nature of the planet itself may bring about, whether with drastic alterations due to excess or to the defect of the rainfall or atmospheric circulation regimes, tectonic movements or volcanism, or any other kind of cataclysm that may occur on an extreme scale.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy efficiency of buildings is not compromised by the introduction of new technologies.
i should also like to express my particular satisfaction, mr president, shared by the whole committee on industry, at the great receptivity shown by the council to all the contributions of parliament: the principle of individual invoicing, the differential treatment of existing and new buildings, the clear definition of exemptions, the special attention paid to social housing, the growing importance of passive cooling in southern countries, where air conditioning systems are increasingly contributing to our energy consumption, and of course the emphasis on incentive mechanisms rather than penalties.
in order to assess the importance of this piece of legislation, it must be borne in mind that buildings account for 40% of the union's energy expenditure, which in quantitative terms amounts to eur 100 billion per year, 2.5% of our total imports and 0.5% of our gross domestic product.
there is therefore no doubt that this directive, which will be followed by others already launched by the commission, will represent a very important step forward in meeting the union's environmental objectives and in ensuring security of supply.
this was therefore not acceptable to parliament, either in terms of energy savings or in symbolic terms.
i therefore think we can be very pleased, mr president, to congratulate the commissioner and her team on this great contribution to the union's energy policy, to all my colleagues in the committee on industry for the great support i have received, to the committee's secretariat for its excellent technical work and, as i said before, to thank the council for its receptivity.
(es) mr president, climate change policy is an open process, in which all member states share certain final objectives and the recognition of certain tools to make this process a reality.
one of them is certainly emissions trading.
of course, the commission will continue to monitor the situation closely, and if the problems recur, will place the matter on the agenda of the standing committee on the food chain and animal health to emphasise the importance of the proper removal of specified waste material, in other words, spinal cord, at slaughterhouse level, and to require strong corrective actions.
i therefore believe that the strategy's triple aspect is correct: the overall approach from vocational qualifications to working hours, from demographic trends, from the general trend in economic activity to that of the working population, the approach or idea that a healthy and safe working environment and organization are factors that condition the performance of the economy in general and of companies in particular and, above all, the culture of risk prevention.
it does not concern the change of the ceiling on the common agricultural policy, but rather giving it a chance for the future and, above all, introducing criteria of sustainable development and solidarity, which this policy lacks.
i was able to watch on television, with a certain stupor, the vice-president of the commission and commissioner for transport and energy, mrs loyola de palacio, answering personally at the door of the house and in front of the media to question no 93 by a member of parliament, which had not been answered orally because the time limit for the commission's question time had been reached.
question no 1 by mr camilo nogueira román (h-0606/02) subject: milk production in the context of the revision of the common agricultural policy proposed by the commission for a country like galicia, which provides a large part of the milk production of the spanish state, whose agrarian structure is based on small family ownership, which is precisely the most conducive to sustainable rural development, and which has made considerable efforts in recent decades to modernise this sector, the reform of the cap should encourage an increase in milk production, if only to enable it to meet the needs of the peninsula's market, by establishing a transitional period during which the intervention price will be maintained.
the priorities of this work plan are: firstly, consolidation of democracy, the rule of law and public institutions; secondly, support for the economic transition process, including ukraine's integration into the european and world economies and regional cross-border cooperation with neighbouring countries; thirdly, cooperation to strengthen stability and security within and outside europe; fourthly, strengthening cooperation in the fields of the environment, energy and nuclear security; fifthly, support for enhanced cooperation in the context of eu enlargement; and, sixthly, strengthening cooperation in the fields of justice and home affairs.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
- report (a5-0316/2002) by mr khanbhai, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on sustainable agricultural policy, land reform and rural development with a view to self-sufficiency in developing countries (2001/2274 (ini)).
i was happy to see that the fight against poverty was at the forefront of the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg.
but we must be careful, because if we anticipate the natural course of events with our decision, we could unintentionally cause the opposite of what we want, weaken an organization which, in its long life, has amply demonstrated its good practice in the highly sensitive antarctic marine environment.
- to conclude the debate on this statement, i have received, in accordance with rule 37 of the rules of procedure, motion for a resolution b5-0527/2002 on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the joint debate on two reports by mr blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy: - a5-0291/2002 on the proposal for a council regulation on the export and import of dangerous chemicals (com (2001) 803 - c5-0320/2002 - 2002/0026 (cns)) and - a5-0290/2002 on the proposal for a council decision approving, on behalf of the european community, the rotterdam convention on the procedure for obtaining prior informed consent for certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides in international trade (com (2001) 802 - c5-0095/2002 - 2002/0030 (cns)).
the proposal for a decision calls for the ratification as soon as possible of the rotterdam convention, the main purpose of which is to regulate international trade in dangerous chemicals, but also, as we have understood in parliament, to protect human health and the environment, and it is important that this be done now.
sustainable development - we have had a debate on this - is closely linked to energy taxes.
- (es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must welcome proposals and reports like today's because they include the outermost regions in setting energy guidelines.
b5-0492/02 by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, to the commission, on the commission's strategy for the new delhi conference on climate change.
first of all, after bonn and marrakech, cop 8 is an opportunity to reinforce the commitments from developed countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and repeat calls on those countries that have not yet ratified the kyoto protocol to do so in the near future.
the concerns of developing countries relate to adaptation to climate change and the initiation of a process for further action to be taken after 2012, for a second commitment period.
we can expect the developing countries to remind the industrialised world of our obligations under the climate convention when it comes to helping them in capacity building and adaptation to climate change.
the environment council also called upon other countries to engage in a dialogue on this question last week.
the developing countries are opposed to that and, of course, argue from a political standpoint that it is our role to lead the way, to show that we are serious about getting our greenhouse gas emissions down, before they will accept anything that could hamper their development.
one issue that we will pursue at cop 8 is also a follow-up to the coalition of the willing on renewable energy that the european union launched in johannesburg.
as you know, the kyoto protocol will enter into force once 55 parties representing at least 55% of the emissions of annex 1 have ratified the protocol.
so far, 95 countries representing 37.1% of emissions have ratified the kyoto protocol, representing around two thirds of the world population.
i would say that what is most important now is to continue to put pressure on russia, because we know that the ratification by russia, which represents 17.4% of emissions, is vital to reach the 55% threshold needed for the kyoto protocol to enter into force.
the european climate change programme mrs jackson referred to was launched on 8 march 2000 and has identified key elements for a cost-effective eu-wide strategy to combat climate change.
the commission has already presented proposals for a number of these measures, including an eu emissions trading scheme, the energy performance of buildings, co-generation and a strategy to increase the use of biofuels in road transport.
others, such as legislation on minimum energy efficiency standards for end use equipment or the promotion of energy services and on fluorinated gases, are in the pipeline.
but is true that some of our member states will have to take serious steps to deal with the current trend when it comes to greenhouse gas emissions.
transport has been identified as one of the more intractable sectors, with carbon dioxide emissions from transport the fastest growing, despite the progress made through our agreement with the european automobile manufacturers association.
this issue will have to be raised in a more general context, because it concerns not only the meps attending this and other climate change meetings, but also other international fora.
secondly, we will have to rectify recital c of the resolution we are presenting, because that recital says that 83 countries have ratified the kyoto protocol but - as the commissioner very well said - at the beginning of october 95 countries had ratified it, which represents 37.1% of co2 emissions.
i think we will repeat ourselves, i think we all agree that there are some priority issues, the commissioner said: getting russia to sign the protocol, with all the diplomatic and pressure moves, would mean passing the 55% emissions barrier, which would allow us to put the kyoto protocol into effect.
i have to say that, unfortunately, my country is not an example of reducing emissions, but quite the opposite.
we need to put pressure on the different countries to continue to meet the commitments we all made, and there is no doubt that renewable energy is going to play a very important role in this path we are on, in addition to transport, despite the poor performance of johannesburg in terms of renewable energy.
in all bilateral talks, including those between commissioner prodi and prime minister putin, climate change and the kyoto protocol have been on the agenda.
i am sure we would all agree that the work in icao has not been satisfactory when it comes to speed and commitment, but it also has a unccc mandate to work on the climate change issue.
we need to reduce emissions as a result.
i believe this will lead to convergence of per capita emissions internationally.
it is a moral concept rather than an environmental measure.
our main objective is to protect the environment.
i would like to approach it from an environmental point of view, so that we make sure that we stabilise concentrations in the atmosphere at harmless levels.
we will probably be the bridge between g77, china and the developed countries in the debate on how to deal with climate change.
- in conclusion to this debate, i have received, in accordance with rule 42 of the rules of procedure, motion for a resolution b5-0531/2002 on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
following the adoption by the commission of directive 2001/18/ec on the release of gmos into the environment, there are serious concerns regarding health, the environment and the interests of farmers.
as is well known, beyond the ethical issues related to the commercialization and patentability of life and natural heritage, the release of gmos into the environment is irreversible and uncontrollable, and can have direct consequences in the pollution of conventional agriculture and the reduction of biodiversity.
another question that has been raised is whether countries can refuse to receive nuclear waste that they do not want.
in principle, each country has an obligation to take care of its own nuclear waste.
and if they do not, they will have to take the waste back to their own country, that is clear.
no one will be forced to take in waste from third countries, no one.
this is the second element we want to introduce in our relations and in our structured energy dialogue with russia in the course of these negotiations.
(es) mr president, we have two problems: energy supply and emissions.
nuclear energy, whether we like it or not, provides a solution to both problems.
it also raises two other problems: safety and waste management.
it has not been possible perhaps because arafat's action, being locked up in the mokata for all that time, lost the energy that had been put into motion so that a change could be generated towards a more open government and even a prime minister.
if the international negotiations lead to a commitment to reduce the blue box, to which the european union and all the other wto members agreed in principle in doha and to which the council reiterated its commitment at the johannesburg summit on sustainability, this would mean abandoning direct payments at least in part, because the option of decoupling would then no longer be open.
this frequently asked question was the subject of a first qualitative assessment by the commission in its communication entitled 'towards sustainable agriculture - a mid-term review of the common agricultural policy', based on internal analyses.
we must now seize the opportunity to strengthen a sustainable agricultural policy, bring it into line with the expectations of society and provide a long-term policy perspective for farmers.
in general, however, i have been able to see, as president of the agriculture and fisheries council, a broad consensus that rural policy should be strengthened and that greater emphasis should be placed on food security, environmental protection and animal welfare.
they consider this to be a good way of securing the necessary funding to strengthen priority objectives in food safety, quality, the environment and animal welfare and other important areas.
thus, various groups of delegations made strong arguments against a reduction in the intervention price for cereals, the abolition of the monthly cereal surcharges, the abolition of the intervention system for rye, the proposed changes to the durum wheat schemes and the proposed ecological set-aside, and against the commission's proposed change in the aid for energy crops.
the second cohesion report has shown that the current support under the common agricultural policy benefits producers in the most developed agricultural areas in preference and that it would be a mistake to maintain it in its present form, where the productive function is prioritised over other economic, social, environmental and territorial considerations.
without losing sight of the functional model as the irreducible core of our agricultural policies, we must define new forms of aid for small farmers, policies which redistribute wealth more equitably, generalize eco-conditionality and make agricultural and environmental policies indissoluble and frictionless, without this having devastating effects on rural areas and massive population exodus due to the application of policies without cohesion effects.
the establishment of young farmers must be guaranteed by specific support, and the same applies to small farmers who guarantee rural sustainability.
as you know, a ship that has not lived up to its name, the prestige, has spilled several tons of crude oil off the spanish coast, creating not only a stain more than 200 kilometres long, but also a deep environmental and economic concern for the more than 5 000 families affected.
i do not know, mr president, whether this could be done on monday or thursday, on the occasion of the commission's statement on climate change, but i wanted to make it clear from now on, so that we could, if the other political groups agree, put it on the agenda for our work.
- (es) mr president, i understand the reasons you have just given, but mrs malliori, as mrs hautala has said, is the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy in this very important debate on tobacco advertising, and you know very well, mr president, that issues relating to tobacco advertising are always conflicting and there are differences between the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market.
i do not know whether that is impossible, but of course if the rapporteur does not agree... i understand the difficulties, but it would be important for this parliament that mrs malliori be present, as she is the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on this matter.
people are hoping that the socioeconomic and ecological disasters will be remedied and that those affected will be supported and that the 77,000 tonnes still remaining on the prestige will be prevented from flooding our coasts.
we must be extremely vigilant and not allow our environment to be destroyed.
on thursday - the accident happened on wednesday - i tabled a motion for a resolution before this house and i tabled two motions for resolutions, because i understand that there are common interests here: environmental interests, fisheries interests - which the committee on fisheries will have to follow - and interests relating to the transport of dangerous goods by sea, which the committee on transport will have to follow.
we must not only complain about what is happening now, which is already badly managed, because it is an economic catastrophe for all fishermen and shellfishermen - as my colleagues have said - but we must also see that it is an ecological catastrophe.
a very important directive is currently being discussed in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, and the rapporteur for that directive is mr papayannakis from our group.
that directive concerns liability for environmental damage.
- (es) mr president, as a member from a peripheral and maritime region, i would also like to express my solidarity with the galician fishermen affected by the ecological disaster of the prestige.
it is a great pity that the committee on legal affairs and the internal market was unable to work more quickly, in contrast to the much quicker response from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, whose members are the true experts in the european parliament on public health and consumer protection.
i have the impression that this house is now widely divided, because, as some members have said, certain amendments may even weaken the legal basis which the commission itself had proposed, and at this particular moment the opinion of, for example, the rapporteur from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection - which i think we shall hear from her shortly - is certainly against the introduction of amendments.
- (es) mr president, the problem we have when we talk about tobacco is that those of us in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy are talking from the point of view of public health and not from the point of view of the inconvenience that the ban on tobacco advertising may have for the internal market.
in the present case, several members of the committee on the environment have decided not to table amendments to the commission's proposal because a limited directive is better than no directive at all.
the rapporteur for the committee on the environment also makes it very clear that this is a step forward and that the european commission will probably be able to submit proposals in the future on indirect advertising, on the control of advertising expenditure and on tobacco vending machines.
mrs alvarez gonzalez referred to the different views of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, the environment committee's desire for public health to be promoted as an important basic consideration in determining these issues.
the committee on the environment committee says that we should have this legislation in the way i have described and i am sure it would agree the few amendments that the commission concedes.
so maybe we can draw the conclusion that the first thoughts of the rapporteur on this issue, which are closer to those of the committee on the environment and to mine, might well be the ones to follow in this debate.
follow the views of the experts in this house, the committee on the environment, and follow the first thoughts of the rapporteur.
- (es) mr president, in the context of the reform of the cfp which the commission has decided to present to us in small doses, we are discussing today the reports on the guide and on the protection of the environment.
i would like to congratulate mr souchet on his excellent work and because the environment is a fundamental aspect of the cfp, and the fisheries sector is the main one affected by attacks on the marine environment, as is highlighted by the black tide that is now threatening the coasts of my region, galicia.
it is a pity that in may, when presenting its proposals for reform of the cfp, the commission ignored the resolution adopted by this parliament in january on the green paper, in which this house urged it to present a reform proposal to make the cfp sustainable and more community-oriented, against attempts at renationalization; fairer, overcoming discrimination against certain fleets, and more supportive, supporting the regions dependent on fishing, basically through community co-financing for the renewal of the fleet.
i think that from the many debates we have had and from other issues that can legitimately divide us, it is clear that we must solve the problem of how to ensure sustainable fisheries.
- (es) madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the recent disaster caused by the prestige, i believe that these are worrying times both for the galician fishermen, who are waiting for the response of the european commission, who wish that these unfortunate events should not happen again anywhere, and for all the good people who defend the environment and sustainable development.
in addition to sustainable development, you are proposing a green paper on the framework directive on services of general interest, which was agreed in barcelona.
we have examples such as the erika, which was not allowed by the french authorities to enter the port of saint nazaire, or now the prestige, which is not allowed to enter galician ports, obviously because of the high ecological value of that coast.
a proposal such as the creation of high seas shelter areas, close enough for ships in distress to come to them and far enough from the coast to avoid serious ecological problems, but allowing immediate rescue action by technical means, both air and sea, would be worth reconsidering.
the commission would like to congratulate the eu election observation mission, led by mr cushnahan, on the excellent work achieved under very difficult circumstances, notably a particularly challenging security environment.
if we are serious about the task we set ourselves at the gothenburg summit, in continuation of the lisbon summit, then competition policy must not be limited to economic conditions but must also take account of social and environmental aspects.
this is why a rethinking must take place that transforms the internal struggle for subsidized location advantages into a struggle for a sustainable design of people's livelihoods.
the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- the agenda calls for the commission's statement on climate change.
– mr president, thank you for inviting the commission to report to this house on the new delhi conference on climate change held in october 2002. i wish to begin by saying that the european union adopted a strong and unified position during the talks and we would like to thank the danish presidency for its excellent work.
however, the commission and my colleague mrs wallström particularly want to express our appreciation of the european parliament's ongoing support for the eu's position in international climate negotiations and your continuing interest in this issue.
around 170 countries, representing over three-quarters of the world's population, met in new delhi for their eighth regular meeting as parties to the united nation's framework convention on climate change.
the cdm is an important tool for reaching emission targets in developed countries and, at the same time, for reducing emissions in the developing world and contributing to its sustainable growth.
during the final ministerial part of the meeting, ministers and senior officials discussed the actions taken so far to combat climate change, the links between climate change and sustainable development and the disturbing findings of the third assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, which show that most of the acceleration in global warming is man-made.
they also debated the need for further action to continue the fight against climate change.
although it includes the call for all countries to ratify the kyoto protocol and underlines the need for greater efforts to combat climate change in the coming decades, we would have liked it to be stronger in other areas.
the findings of the third assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change confirm that more emission cuts are needed if the ultimate objective of the un framework convention on climate change is to be attained.
this must be used as an important input for furthering the work of the climate change convention and the kyoto protocol.
a third but more general point is that the debate in delhi tended to focus on sustainable development rather than on climate change.
while there is a clear understanding in the eu that climate change is strongly linked to sustainable development, the un framework convention on climate change is about just that.
it is the framework for climate change which is well defined and in place.
we should not allow the sustainable development discussion to distract us from the climate change process.
as you know this requires ratification by 55 parties representing at least 55% of the co2 emissions of the industrialised countries in 1990. the first threshold has been largely met – 97 countries as of 13 november – as ratification continues steadily.
it seems that russia is still inclined to ratify, especially after the results of the recently published study on the effects of climate change in that country.
it is the commission's intention to continue to encourage russia to live up to its responsibility as a key player on climate change and to ratify the kyoto protocol as soon as possible.
internally, the commission will proceed within the framework of the european climate change programme to enable the european union to meet its emissions reductions targets as agreed.
everybody knows that the kyoto protocol is only the first step in the fight against climate change and we have to start to discuss how to proceed beyond it.
the points i would like to make about this conference are the following: the european union must maintain its leadership in the international fight against climate change and, consequently, promote as soon as possible the political debate among all parties on the objectives for the period after 2012. the cop8 was intended as a good opportunity to consolidate the decisions already taken in bonn and marrakesh on the implementation of the kyoto protocol, but frankly it failed to do so and failed to establish a broad debate on the main issues for the second period.
the attempts to dilute the specific aspects of the kyoto protocol into the much broader concept of sustainable development - as the commissioner has already pointed out - prevailed, and in this respect it must be said that the us delegation had a very unconstructive attitude, avoiding at all times to talk about meeting specific timetables and objectives.
as regards the position of developing countries, concern was expressed about insufficient cooperation by developed countries in terms of financial assistance and technology transfer to take climate change adaptation and mitigation measures.
- the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the implementation of the 'erika package' on maritime safety and the actions to be taken to remedy socioeconomic and ecological disasters.
the immediate issue is obvious: that the authorities compensate those affected, that clean-up work is carried out to restore an area which - i remind honourable members - is particularly rich, both from the point of view of fish production, shellfish production and also from the environmental point of view and which, in its entirety, is part of the natura 2000 network.
finally, we must continue discussions on the dedicated cope fund, which is intended to cover all compensation and all costs of environmental recovery and clean-up, in addition to compensation, and which is complementary to the fipol fund.
galicia is undoubtedly one of these areas because of the richness of seafood and fisheries that has been noted here, for its diversity, for its marine ecosystem.
the oil spill caused by the prestige, with twice as much crude oil in its tanks as the erika, is already an economic, social and environmental disaster for europe, for my region; it is a european problem of the first magnitude whose consequences will last for years.
the socialists call for a transport policy and a policy of sustainable development based on the principle of maximum safety and prevention, which strengthens community cooperation, means of inspection and safety standards.
but we must prevent this from happening again, because, in addition to the social and economic catastrophe it entails, it is an ecological catastrophe that affects natura 2000 sites, biodiversity and the wealth of a region like galicia.
commissioner, when we vote in this parliament we must remember the catastrophe, because we are going to be discussing in the next few months a very important directive, which has to do with liability for environmental damage, and we are all going to remember what we are going to vote on.
i shall use the few seconds i have left, mr president, to say - on behalf of my colleague, mrs ilda figueiredo, who has had to leave - that she too expresses her solidarity with those affected by the black tide, calls for more stringent control measures to prevent it from happening again, considers it important to draw up a list of sensitive maritime areas which should be the subject of special protection in galicia, brittany, and she also recalls that in portugal - which is close to the area - she insists on the application of the erika i and ii packages, bringing forward their dates of application, calls for effective measures against flags of convenience and the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to repair environmental damage and compensate the people affected.
in our case we must take the necessary measures to ensure that catastrophes such as that of this black beast, whose significant ecological impact should force us members of this house to reflect, are not repeated.
we are asking ourselves how many more oil tankers we have to put up with, and have we realised the negative impacts this ecological disaster has had on fisheries, on nature, on tourism, on the society of this galicia finisterre?
measures such as the widening of the sea corridors should not be put on hold, so that ships carrying dangerous goods move away from the coast, especially when they sail through areas of high ecological sensitivity such as the galician coast.
perhaps this is the reflection of the galician peasant, who sees a dark future for himself and his family after what has already been described as the greatest ecological, economic and social catastrophe in the history of galicia.
on the other hand, there are those responsible, whose faces are lost or obscured by flags of convenience and legally contrived plots to that end, and with the aim of fraudulently circumventing the rules of the internal market, without worrying about the possible ecological damage - now real - and the social and economic damage, and - without being alarmist - the one that could continue to occur also, by the domino effect, for the coastal regions.
political, because this parliament, after seven disasters like the prestige off the coast of galicia in the last twenty years, did not have the courage to introduce legislation similar to that of the united states with the oil pollution act, in such a way as to radically prevent the circulation of these types of vessels, which are time bombs operated by criminal capitalism mafias, through these waters.
the four key elements of this basic regulation are: firstly, we want to make the stocks sustainable in the future.
it is true that fishing must be sustainable and that requires preserving fish stocks, of course, but in the binomial of sustainable development or sustainable exploitation, the two words are inseparable and therefore there must be a balance: there must be fishermen and there must be regeneration of fish stocks.
but there is no point in talking about sustainable development itself, if we dissociate the two words.
it seems to me that the commission's approach in this respect is one which gives priority to, or only takes into account in a fundamental way, the issue of rapid regeneration of populations and ignores the other aspect of sustainable development.
landscapes of singular beauty, national parks, the natura 2000 network, the entire marine ecosystem and our rich biodiversity are ruined.
the urgent, the immediate, is to help people who have lost their livelihoods and to restore the environment.
and this is linked to the report by mr jové peres because we galicians, faced with the catastrophe caused by prestige, are working hard to deal with the disastrous environmental, economic, fisheries and social consequences.
the proposal for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy must be based on and be committed to sustainable development and the protection of the environment.
obviously, sustainability would be guaranteed if there were no development, but depending on the starting points - which are sometimes a priori and sometimes not well founded, but which, in any case, are always questioned or questionable - the solutions may be different, and in this, once again, the work of the rapporteur, mr jové peres, deserves praise for avoiding the over-sizing of unilaterally taken aspects, even if these were important.
i hope you will be informed that our coastline is extremely rich in biodiversity, and that this biodiversity is not galician, commissioner, but european.
i would like to say to all those who have referred to the prestige tanker accident: it may not have been clear enough in my first speech, but we - that is, the services responsible for shipping issues in the transport dg under the responsibility of mrs loyola de palacio, the environmental experts under mrs margot wallström, the structural funds experts and my experts - have set up a task force together.
amendments nos 19 and 50 are not a problem in terms of content, but in themselves we take account of the environmental idea in the precautionary principle itself, and therefore i do not think these proposals are necessary.
i am happy to accept amendment no 22 on the international guidelines for sustainable fisheries management.
senegal receives a financial contribution of eur 16 million and we are helping senegal to develop a sustainable fisheries sector.
i would also stress that the biological rest period is mandatory, as opposed to the mere provision in the previous agreement that the prohibition of pelagic fishing is intended to promote the conservation of sensitive stocks and to promote the artisanal sector and to safeguard the sustainability of fisheries in senegal.
it is not just about maritime safety, but is a cross-cutting issue affecting at least four committees (environment, public health and consumer policy, fisheries, development and cooperation and legal affairs and internal market).
if my information is correct, the vote will take place on wednesday from 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0384/2002) by mrs breyer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the commission communication on foods and food ingredients which may be subject to ionisation treatment in the community (com (2001) 472 - c5-0010/2002 - 2002/2008 (cos)).
finally, mr president, although it is not the responsibility of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, nor of this parliamentary report, i do want to draw attention to the annual report of the court of auditors for the financial year 2001, because there are allegations of corruption in it and, in the interests of the fight against corruption in cap aid, this must be taken very seriously.
this preference is explained in particular by the fact that fuel is cheaper in this colony than in spain and that the spanish authorities apply community standards on maritime safety and pollution prevention more rigorously than the gibraltar authorities.
it is well known that this particular form of supply is a major environmental hazard due to the risk of accidental spills, which occur quite frequently.
what steps does the commission intend to take to put an end to practices which are so dangerous for the environment and so detrimental to the proper functioning of the internal market?
the commission considers that this practice should be carefully monitored in order to avoid marine discharges and pollution.
many ports have therefore adopted specific regulations and procedures governing such activities, and the commission, for its part, in application of the treaty, ensures compliance with community legislation on environmental protection.
on 24 january 2001, the commission brought an action before the court of justice in respect of the failure by the united kingdom to apply in gibraltar a number of environmental rules, including directive 93/12/eec on the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels.
these groups are always protected by permissive legislation from an environmental, commercial, tax, etc.
the port of gibraltar supplies much more fuel than the port of algeciras, partly because there are lower port charges, partly because - as the commissioner has acknowledged - there are much less stringent environmental and maritime safety standards and partly because there are less taxes.
- question no 45 by mrs ahern (h-0721/02): subject: nuclear regulation at eu level on 12 september 2002, the commissioner for energy told journalists that new plans for eu-wide nuclear regulation were being drawn up.
the projects discussed include: a 'framework directive' which will establish nuclear safety standards in the eu; a directive on the management and disposal of radioactive waste; a directive on financial mechanisms for the long-term safe disposal of radioactive waste and the decommissioning of nuclear installations; a negotiating mandate to increase the levels of nuclear fuel imports into the eu.
during a meeting with several groups of petitioners, mr gemelli, chairman of the committee, received a petition in which the authors denounced the route of the cantábrico motorway, which crosses the western part of the region, as well as its social and environmental impacts.
the commission - (es) mr president, i should like to inform the honourable member that i have indeed received a visit - like so many others - from a number of representatives who have visited not only me but also the directorate-general for the environment, which is responsible for dealing with the matter to which the honourable member refers.
- (es) mr president, rather than supplementing the question, because i think the commissioner's answer is correct, i will inform you that your name and that of two officials from the directorate-general for the environment were misused.
i think it is unfortunate to use the names of two officials from the directorate-general for the environment.
however, statements made by mrs de palacio on 12 september, on the occasion of the first anniversary of the road safety campaign launched by the red cross, show that the third plan will not be able to be presented before 2003. in addition, the european research programme fantasie predicts that, in the event of 'sustainable growth' or 'sustainable equilibrium' in european traffic, the use of two-wheelers is likely to increase considerably.
these measures would also meet the wishes of the commission communication com ((99) 0640/final on air transport and the environment, and the objectives of directive 2002/49/ec oj l 189, 18.7.2002, p. 12. on the assessment and management of ambient noise.
- directive 2002/30/ec sets out objectives and methods for solving noise pollution problems in the vicinity of community airports.
as regards the proposal for a directive on the establishment of a community framework for the classification of noise emissions from civil subsonic aircraft and for the calculation of noise charges, following the first reading by the european parliament last september, it is now up to the council to start examining the proposed text.
in addition the energy efficiency and environmentally-friendly technology of the berlaymont, together with a design that will restrain technical maintenance costs, will bring further savings.
the major design characteristics of the berlaymont have already won the international 2000 passive and low energy architecture award for the best architectural design.
it clearly demonstrates how investment in innovative techniques in installations reduces the running and energy consumption costs significantly.
the public has a right to environmental information.
this means that every natural or legal person, irrespective of citizenship, nationality or residence, has the right to environmental information held or produced by public authorities.
public authorities have a duty to ensure that the information they hold is easily accessible, but the public also has a right to receive environmental information upon explicit request to the public authority.
widespread and easy access to environmental information will increase citizens' knowledge and understanding of environmental issues and public awareness of these issues.
the commission notes that the european parliament calls for effective legislation and the strengthening of citizens' right to good quality environmental information, legislation which constitutes a significant part of the community legislation required for the ratification of the aarhus convention.
- mr president, i would like to thank parliament for this opportunity to express on behalf of the council my deepest sympathy with the people affected by this catastrophic and scandalous pollution which has occurred following the accident on the oil tanker prestige off the coast of galicia.
but unfortunately it happened again, and with it maritime safety and the prevention of pollution accidents are back on the agenda.
following the erika accident, the council and parliament adopted a number of measures to improve safety and reduce oil pollution at sea.
both institutions deserve praise for the community's rapid initiative in adopting decisions to promote safety at sea and the protection of the marine environment.
the matter was put on the agenda of the council of transport ministers on 6 december and of the environment ministers on 9 december, and i witnessed it being discussed in depth at the copenhagen european council last week.
clearly in the council of transport ministers, clearly in the council of environment ministers.
ladies and gentlemen, this is by far the worst ecological disaster my country has ever suffered and it is a disaster of european dimensions that no country can afford to deal with on its own.
but this ecological, social and human catastrophe requires that all the financial resources available to the european union and also the recently created solidarity fund be mobilised.
are the commission and the council prepared to put aside the economic considerations which have prevailed so far in favour of the needs of environmental protection?
(applause) i would like to thank
- (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the enormous ecological, economic and social catastrophe which is afflicting galicia and which has turned it into a genuine european problem, i think we must be clear in this debate we are having.
it is not fair to say that the council has done nothing, and so i would like to start by quoting from the copenhagen conclusions, which state that 'the conclusions of the meeting of the council (transport) of 6 december 2002 and of the council (environment) of 9 december 2002 should be implemented immediately in all respects'.
it is therefore pleased to see the commission's efforts continue, both in terms of the economic, social and environmental consequences of the prestige disaster.
in copenhagen, for example, there was full support for mrs de palacio and for the transport council and the environment council.
but there are also, of course, the environmental damage, where there is a discussion about whether there is a possibility of greater responsibility, and there is agreement that if it can be done at all, it should be located.
this applies to the european council, the transport council and the environment council.
we must talk to russia, we have the baltic sea, which is a closed sea, where any accident, as in the mediterranean sea, would be even more tragic and with far more dramatic environmental consequences than in an open sea such as the atlantic ocean, which has a greater capacity for regeneration.
firstly, the intensification or reconsideration of development aid policy in order to create a dignified and promising environment in the countries of origin and thus avoid the displacement of the population - the vast majority of whom are young - who, in addition to fleeing to the unknown, risking their lives, can and must play a fundamental role in the development of their own country.
it would be impossible to expect immediate effects from a sustainable development policy such as we apply in our relations with third countries.
therefore, we will begin so as not to waste any more time.
the solution will then be less ambitious than some might have wished, but i believe it will be sustainable and will also be able to pass through an intergovernmental conference.
it is also a great tool to educate on topics such as the environment, food, health, teamwork, etc.
yesterday, television broadcasts showed us the human and heartbreaking images of the minutes of silence in solidarity with those who condemned and rejected the latest terrorist attack by those who, women and men, were working to restore the environment of galicia, the marine environment, and to combat the consequences of the prestige.
the vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m. the following are the provisions of the agreement:
- the commission's statement on the sustainable development of mountain regions is on the agenda.