there has already been a lot of talk about environmental issues, but i think it is important to note that in environmental matters we must give public authorities the same opportunity that we require of the most progressive companies.
decision-makers want good environmental decisions in their municipalities.
i also think that there is a lot of substance to the argument that we have adopted directives, for example, on how to promote the use of renewable energy.
there is, however, a difference between environmental issues and so-called social issues.
we have fairly uniform conditions in environmental matters, but very different directives in social matters.
so the city of helsinki ended up buying a bus that runs on natural gas and has very low emissions.
it is interesting that the position of the ombudsman is exactly the same as that of the commission's directorate-general for environmental affairs and different from that of the directorate-general for the internal market.
the directive now adopted requires member states to present plans to reduce the levels of pollution below the limits necessary to protect human health and the environment by 2010. the year 2020 is the reference year for the long-term objective and for the subsequent revision of the directive.
it is particularly important for this directive that all applicant countries should also be involved at the earliest possible stage, as the long-term impact of emissions of nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds on ozone concentrations in the lower atmosphere is significant.
for example, in finland, the majority of the ozone in the lower atmosphere comes from long-range transport, i.e.
emissions that our country could hardly control at all without the european union.
in the field of the environment, parliament has thus used its new, increased power well and responsibly.
this work must be continued, the commission must be encouraged to develop its proposals with greater ambition and the good cooperation which has developed with the council in the field of the environment must be kept warm and functional.
- mr president, first of all, with regard to the sixth action programme on the environment, i would like to thank the 'shadow rapporteurs' of the various groups in this parliament for their good cooperation.
the main objective of the programme is to integrate environmental policy into other policy areas.
in this respect, it is a continuation of the fifth environmental action programme, but this integration must achieve concrete objectives and real results, and this also requires structural changes, for example in the commission's own action.
the aim of integration is, of course, to ensure that the various policy areas themselves take account of the environmental dimension.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the future agricultural reform must move towards more sustainable methods and the new instruments for improving the state of the environment must introduce a clear environmental focus in eu support policy.
the contradiction which currently exists in the environmental aspect of aid must be eliminated.
environmentally harmful subsidies must be identified and phased out by 2010. money is a good consultant anyway, and in this sense, for example, environmental and energy taxes must also be developed.
i am also pleased that we in parliament have been able to accept very broadly that environmental taxation must also be developed at eu level.
qualitative and quantitative targets and timetables should be set for key environmental problems.
i personally think that in this type of programme it is very important to understand the requirements that are imposed on environmental decision-making.
the commission will present thematic strategies which will then guide future environmental policy.
i think that is quite obvious, because they will be the key players in the direction of environmental policy.
i do not think it will do any good to this matter and i do not understand its content; only by improving the common position will we achieve improvements in european environmental policy.
it is also worth noting that better driving also saves the environment.
i agree with the commission that cooperation at local level will improve mutual understanding of information requests, increase the motivation of tax auditors and prevent the waste of scarce resources.
the eu has shown astonishing leadership in the climate change negotiations.
we're going to talk about emissions trading.
we cannot have emissions trading auctioned; we have only had bad experiences with umts and other auctions.
i am particularly concerned about the industrial sectors and those companies which have already made huge investments to reduce emissions.
no one wants to drive out successful companies that care about the environment.
the union's energy needs will only increase with economic growth, regardless of savings.
to reach the kyoto targets, we must continue to save and use renewable energy sources.
however, nuclear energy is the only realistic option for securing basic energy supplies.
the european parliament is indeed doing its best to ensure that the kyoto protocol is in force by the time of the johannesburg summit on sustainable development in september.
it is important to note that a large number of companies have already realised the great opportunities that climate policy offers for business.
it may well be, as my country's minister for the environment has said in this connection, that the united states will be the last outdoor museum of old technology unless it joins in these efforts.
the commission can be thanked for the speed with which it presented the emissions trading directive and also the comprehensive climate programme at the marrakesh meeting.
the european parliament can now play a very decisive role this spring in the formulation of the rules of the game for this emissions trading directive.
the union must therefore be reformed in such a way that the member states cannot simultaneously prevent competition and go abroad to buy up municipal energy companies.
the proposals must have a clear objective: the diversity of the environment is important to all of us.
what about biodiversity?
in my country, for example, the main problems are not really related to the state of the environment or biodiversity but to the fact that production is profitable at all in conditions of high production costs.
it is pointless to talk to farmers about increasing environmental measures when virtually all the production in our country is organic.
i would suggest that paragraph 44 be deleted from the text, as would the remainder of paragraph 42, which refers to agri-environmental measures only for the protection of endangered species.
i would like to say that i agree with what mr nessa has just said on amendment no 15. unfortunately, the traditional, common sense approach of using food waste as animal feed has so far proved problematic due to the inadequate processing of the feed.
as an exception, the manufacture of feed from food waste that has been properly sterilised in officially approved establishments could be allowed.
it is unreasonable for the union to demand that electricity production based on the use of land-based igneous rock, which is uncompetitive and subject to free competition, be subject to free competition at a rapid pace, while france and, to some extent, germany, after 50 years, are still putting the brakes on the liberalisation of their own energy markets.
- mr president, the number of environmental standards has increased enormously in the last thirty years, to the extent that there are now more than fifty times as many in the protocols to national agreements and similar instruments.
it is much more comprehensive, coherent and effective than the council framework convention, which is burdened by general weaknesses in environmental regulation and is also based on a clearly flawed legal basis.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
improving the level of environmental protection and promoting fair competition and certification procedures are also important objectives.
even the environment cannot justify carelessness in determining what is criminal behavior or not.
the proposal for a directive, which is part of the erica 2 package, focuses on the essential aspects of improving maritime safety and reducing environmental damage from accidents.
water transport is favoured for its environmental friendliness.
it is also possible to bring in weee waste for a special fee.
in another part of finland, with the 'rosk'n roll', a special eco-fee is paid for reception and advice, and so the 15th largest waste recycling company in europe also operates on market economy principles.
i think we have a lot to learn from this practical example, as well as from the question of waste oil management in marine conditions and how to deal with it.
i would point out, however, that the proposal on brakes or flame retardants is not really environmentally friendly, since it could lead to a great need to collect the waste as long as we are not allowed to use plastics in any other way.
i do not think that the amendment on flame retardants is in the best interests of the environment.
under his leadership, parliament has been able to play a key role in bringing together the views of consumer organisations, environmental organisations and producers.
the impact of producer responsibility on the quantity and quality of waste electrical and electronic equipment is greater than any other decision parliament could take on waste.
it creates incentives for greener design and innovation even before products are on the market, thereby reducing the environmental burden of a product throughout its life cycle.
similarly, incentives are now being created to develop alternative waste management methods so that the resulting ecological burden is as low as possible.
the european union is now legislating to make it clear to the rest of the world that the conflict between environmental considerations and economics is not inevitable but can be reconciled by carefully considered legislation.
in practice a waste tax, not only for historical waste but also for future waste.
the council's common position thus represents fiscal greed, which is harmful to consumers, producers and the environment.
at union level, we can help to defuse the pension bomb by helping to develop crossborder personal pension or savings schemes which are, firstly, economically sustainable, secondly, provide the capital needed by businesses in the form of investments and, thirdly, are better able to respond to the changing needs of individuals than statutory universal schemes.
it is particularly important to promote sustainable tourism and to promote the conditions for the growth of nature and cultural tourism.
we should therefore propose a five-point programme for the rapprochement of our relations: the economic area, membership of the wto, energy cooperation, the northern dimension and the kaliningrad agreement in concrete terms; five points, ladies and gentlemen!
are we the only ones in the eu who care about human rights, freedom of expression, media pluralism, the environment, and perhaps even the position of civil society organisations?
what is the de facto state of play in the energy dialogue?
what about the environmental partnership in the northern dimension?
the eu has taken decisions to finance important environmental projects in north-western russia, but the russian federation is not doing its part.
for six months, and then year after year, the question is postponed, while we know that the clock is ticking for untreated nuclear waste and the submarines in murmansk could start leaking.
but the real results, the ones that would be vital to the environment in which i live, are not being seen.
it is inviting the representatives of the world's leading sustainable development community to the johannesburg summit to take a step closer to the hopeful prospects raised at the 1992 rio summit.
economic and social stability and a high level of environmental protection must be able to be combined in such a way that these elements do not act as brakes on each other but, together, promote well-being more than any of them could do alone.
the social, economic and ecological development of societies and democratization are closely linked, as we have seen many times in the negative examples.
similarly, there is a need to make a consistent effort to prevent social and ecological dumping on the global market through rules to be agreed in the wto.
the most recent example is emissions trading: for products from non-participating third countries, it should be possible to agree on fees and duties that offset the additional liabilities of companies covered by the emissions trading scheme.
it is true that current eu policy allocates too much money to large farms and even to the most productive regions of the eu without the eu using these funds to guide structural or sustainable development.
- mr president, the european union's environmental policy is ambitious and good in most areas.
the precondition for receiving public support is that our environmental work is transparent.
commissioner wallström stated at the start of the proposal over a year ago that in order to create the conditions for sustainable development we must start by putting our national environmental policy at the centre.
the tenth principle of the rio declaration on environment and development concerns citizen participation and the implementation of this principle by the aarhus convention is a significant step towards practical implementation.
i have therefore today submitted a draft recommendation for the second reading of the second pillar to the secretariat of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the directive on public access to environmental information is to be implemented by the end of this year.
- mr president, i would like to thank very warmly all those who have been involved in the preparation and decision-making of the sixth environment action programme, such as the shadow rapporteurs of the groups, the members of the conciliation delegation and the secretariat, the spanish presidency and the commission.
overall, the sixth environment action programme can be seen as a continuation of the fifth, although it has been criticised that the fifth environment action programme was not adequately analysed when the preparation of the sixth environment action programme was started.
in any case, the idea that was first put forward in the fifth action programme, namely the question of integrating environmental policy into other policy areas, is also the driving force behind this sixth action programme on the environment and it is quite clear that this is the only way to make progress in environmental matters.
all the different policy sectors must work themselves to achieve environmental objectives.
environmental objectives must be set on the basis of environmental considerations, but the responsibility for finding the means to achieve them must lie with the various sectors.
today, in this chamber, we have discussed fisheries and agricultural policy, and we have seen that it is very difficult in practice to reduce environmental issues to these important, important issues.
the negotiations adopted a number of important principles, of which it is perhaps worth mentioning that for the first time we have a decision on environmental taxes at european level.
we have the seville conference resolution on energy taxes, for example.
we cannot in any case ignore environmental policy by supporting actions which are harmful to the environment.
a new way of tackling climate change has been found, and transport emissions are also being better integrated into these buildings.
this thematic strategy for the urban environment must be able to find its content both in terms of environmental policy and in terms of improving the quality of life of citizens.
- mr president, i will start with some good news from the bali meeting: it decided to launch a ten-year work programme on sustainable production and consumption.
- mr president, the eu can rightly be pleased with the progress made in the field of sustainable development.
the union has been commendably committed, in particular, to slowing down and combating climate change.
the knowledge needed for this task is still limited, although sufficient to conclude that there is no longer any scientific uncertainty about man-made global warming.
i therefore propose that the eu should set up a specific european climate change agency, the european climate change agency, to support the community in its climate change policy.
the european climate change agency should be tasked with collecting data on climate change and its impact on the environment, the economy and society.
all this is needed to further strengthen the eu's sustainable development policy and to enhance its role as an international leader.
climate change is the most serious problem and threat in our history.
fusion is the energy solution of the future, and when it is realised we can forget about the energy deficit, the excessive share of imported energy in europe and greenhouse gas emissions.
affordable clean energy is one of the basic conditions for creating economic growth for sustainable development.
i am pleased to commend the political decision-makers in my own country, finland, for their courage in clearly including nuclear energy alongside other forms of electricity development.
transport is a major source of co2 emissions and we are highly dependent on imports of traditional petroleum-based fuels.
the measures taken by euro area governments to restore sound public finances have laid the foundations for sustainable economic growth and the strengthening of the euro.
we must keep these visions, these common objectives and also the commonly agreed principles of responsible and sustainable economic policy in mind as we seek solutions to the political and economic problems of our continent.
(applause) i would like to thank the
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has adopted an opinion.
although the opinion of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy to the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection seems to be rather unanimous, the vote on several points was decided by a margin of just one vote.
it can be said that the committee was divided, and those who remained in the minority were very pleased to find that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection represented their position better than the opinion of their own committee.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has taken a different view on this matter from the committee on industry, and its position is more in line with the need to give consumers more choice.
the proposal by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to retain the control data for a period of ten years instead of the five proposed by the commission is not, in my view, prudent.
the sixth environment action programme adopted the principle that waste should be separated from economic growth.
this is also one of the main environmental policy objectives of the meeting currently taking place in johannesburg.
of course, this directive on packaging waste is only part of this problem, but it is now in our hands and we must also bear in mind this overarching objective.
the final result in committee was not quite what the social democrats and the rapporteur wanted; but hopefully we will be able to keep to the target of achieving a 10% reduction in waste generation.
of course, much research is still needed on the environmental impact of the recovery of packaging waste.
the environmental impact assessment shall result in the establishment of environmental indicators for packaging.
we must have research-based information on which materials and under which conditions will best improve the state of the environment.
in order to create genuine competition between materials, i believe that in addition to these material-specific objectives there should also be a general objective, which would be to compete for more packaging materials that meet environmental criteria to enter the market.
recycling is also a very good thing when we talk about sustainable development as a combination of social, economic and environmental policies.
it creates jobs and helps the marginalised in this sense, and it improves the state of the environment.
the aim of recovering packaging waste must be clearly defined, as the situation is currently very confusing.
the commission's proposal for a general recycling rate for packaging waste is a challenging target, but it is achievable under certain conditions.
the very different objectives cannot be justified, at least not by environmental criteria.
as has been said here before, waste prevention is of particular importance.
this can be achieved, for example, by using renewable raw materials efficiently, producing high-quality, durable, long-lasting and recyclable products and reducing the harmfulness of the waste generated.
for example, fibre packaging is made from easily recyclable, renewable raw materials.
this is an important directive which we have been waiting for, because recycling must be introduced effectively where it really benefits the environment and the amount of waste must be greatly reduced.
the criterion then must be genuine environmental protection.
this would prevent the use of recyclable materials for energy-only purposes.
perhaps many of us would not be eager to interpret it as packaging waste that would then have to be recycled, perhaps in the middle of a neighbor's toilet roll.
the directive is expected to have a two-fold impact: it will play an important role both as a rationalizing factor in practices and, hopefully, as a preventive measure against waste generation.
the amount of waste should be separated from economic growth, as mr müller rightly said here.
such methods would provide a comprehensive solution model and thus provide europe with its own, independent from the usa, brazil or argentina, source of renewable energy.
(fi) mr president, the commission proposed that the ec should accept the convention, but it wanted to make a reservation on article 27. the article is important, because it allows signatory countries to unilaterally ban the import of foreign spent fuel and radioactive waste.
the reservation made by the commission to article 27 does not open the european union's common market to nuclear waste for disposal, but it does allow the ec to amend directive 92/3/euratom to make it compatible with the convention.
it is important that the european union makes greater efforts to combat climate change, to implement the kyoto agreement and to reduce greenhouse gases.
the promotion of renewable energy sources is important.
the first pillar was on the transparency of environmental information, and its conciliation is currently under way.
citizens are now given the precious right to participate in environmental decision-making.
it is also an important tool for the environment, with the potential to significantly improve the quality of environmental decision-making.
it is in no one's interest - and least of all in the interest of the environment - that this instrument should be used for the defence of selfish interests, for opposition politics and for deliberate bullying.
environmental organisations must also be aware of their exceptional responsibility not to inflate the rights granted to citizens and the special status granted to environmental organisations.
for the reasons mentioned above, i want to be a champion of the rights of citizens to participate in environmental decision-making and i remain ready to prevent any possible misuse of this instrument.
in this connection, the report now before us, which has been very well put through the committee by mrs eija-riitta korhola, is very important, because the fact that the european union has started to implement the aarhus convention shows that the union understands that at least in environmental matters it is possible to take action and give citizens the right to participate.
i noted that, unfortunately, at the just concluded johannesburg conference on sustainable development, the united states and the development group removed from the final document the reference to rio principle no 10, which specifically concerns the right of citizens to participate in environmental decision-making.
ensuring that all citizens are kept up to date with developments is not only an ethically sustainable but also a wise and practical policy.
in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy we have been disappointed by the council's practice in taking decisions on the financing of the sixth framework programme for science and research.
the commission has focused on two main areas: environmental protection and nuclear safety.
the northern dimension offers enormous opportunities in energy policy.
the need to improve the environmental performance of the freight transport system is essential as the volume of transport continues to increase.
i am sure that everyone remembers the directive we adopted in 1998 by means of the codecision procedure, which for the first time set quality standards for diesel and petrol in the european union and which has had a decisive impact on reducing exhaust emissions from transport, since it is always a question of improving engine technology and fuel at the same time.
gasoline or diesel containing sulphur produces considerably more exhaust emissions, and now we have a very specific challenge with the automobile industry and catalyst manufacturers designing even more advanced engines and after-treatment technology that can actually reduce exhaust emissions to a very small fraction of what they were in the early 1990s.
the proposal also takes the view that the quality of the fuels used for machine tools must be considerably improved over the present situation, since the more we have been able to reduce the exhaust emissions from road transport by technical improvements, the more attention will be paid to machine tools.
i have tried to deal with this matter responsibly as rapporteur and have obtained as much information as possible, and i think that the compromise we have now in this report from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is quite optimal.
that review would take place during 2005. but i, as rapporteur, have not considered that we could responsibly change this fuel characteristic already in this report, because there are certain doubts about this because of the exhaust emissions but also because of the possible harm to vehicles and engines caused by these biofuel mixtures.
they believe that changing the vapour pressure may cause damage to the engines, so the proposal from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, that we leave this matter to the next revision of the directive in 2005, is a good compromise in my view.
i will now close by saying that we need clean fuels also because we need to be able to reduce further the co2 emissions from cars.
(fi) mr president, the directive on the limitation of noise and exhaust emissions from recreational craft is based on the need to harmonise emissions within the eu, and this is based on the need for industry and recreational craft manufacturers, and the need to improve the functioning of the internal market.
the opposite view can also be taken, as commissioner liikanen said, that it is also a question of finding ways of improving the level of environmental protection.
certain areas need special protection against noise and other emissions, and this possibility must be available another issue that is not covered by this directive, but is related to boating and the environment, is all the other emissions from boating.
this is also something we should be concerned about when we talk about the environment and boating.
for example, boating associations should be given the task of informing and educating their own members about what it means to be a good boater, a boater who cares about his environment.
it is, of course, the responsibility of society to arrange the conditions so that the boatman can be a boatman who cares for his environment.
i think, like the previous speaker, mr myller, that mr callanan has a realistic, practical and good environmental basis for his work.
it is important to have proposals aimed at improving the marine environment, and we finns know how important a living sea is.
since the work on this directive began, and at least since 1966, when germany and sweden submitted their legislative proposals, we have had good progress in terms of the environmental impact of both two-stroke and four-stroke engines.
i personally think that sailing is the activity which is least harmful to the environment in this context, but that is another matter.
i have a calculation from finland which shows that if we implement the proposal put forward by the rapporteur, carbon monoxide emissions in that country would be reduced by 1.8% and hydrocarbon emissions by 4.3%.
however, emissions of nitrogen oxides and other particulate matter are not expected to differ.
while harmonisation is necessary for trade, it is equally important to bring minimum emission standards to the same level in all member states, thus achieving ecological and welfare benefits.
thirdly, the ecological state of the marine areas in the community is already so bad that the argument of the sensitivity of inland waters is not justified: read in reverse, these colleagues will have said that yes, there is a little more fairness in the marine areas, but that is all!
why waste time doing something that benefits the citizens?
i would say that for those of you who haven't thought about emissions trading, you might want to consider eating a lobster.
now, the idea, of course, is that emissions trading helps us find those juicy emissions reduction targets where it's cost-effective to reduce emissions and where it's really worth the trouble, and maybe the hardest targets can be left to the last or dealt with in other ways.
the report by the committee on the environment meets all the essential requirements for a good ets.
firstly, parliament is voting today on a proposal which will significantly expand the emissions market by introducing new sectors, including new gases.
as regards the flexibility which the member states have been lacking, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has found the best possible method of flexibility, namely that member states may, under certain conditions, temporarily exclude certain installations from the emission trading scheme.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today on the european emissions trading directive.
the european union committed itself to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions in the kyoto climate agreement.
the commission has now drawn up a preliminary proposal on how to regulate emissions trading between european companies.
it sets emission quotas for our energy-intensive industries, which are reduced annually in line with the kyoto targets.
it goes without saying that we in the european union want to play our part in improving the state of the environment and reducing global emissions.
i support the idea of global emissions trading as one way of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the emissions market would, with its inherent natural efficiency, direct reductions to where it is cheapest to reduce emissions.
the overall cost of climate policy for the eu would thus also remain low.
the costs of emissions reductions will make eu industry less competitive than those of countries outside the kyoto protocol.
there is a clear danger that instead of real emission reductions we will end up with global emissions leaks as european plants relocate to countries that have been left out of the burden sharing of the kyoto agreement.
the initial allocation shall not penalise undertakings that are efficient in terms of their specific emissions and shall take into account measures already taken by the undertaking.
for example, in my home country of finland, co2 emissions have been voluntarily reduced for over a decade.
eighty-five percent of industry and power plants have already entered into a voluntary energy-saving agreement with the government.
the starting point should also take into account the actual technical and economic capacity of the company to limit emissions.
for example, the steel industry in my own region must not be put at a disadvantage simply because it is impossible to produce steel without a certain amount of carbon dioxide emissions.
in the steel industry, coal is not used to generate energy but as part of the production process.
emissions have been effectively reduced by investing in modern technology.
the sectors covered by the directive account for a large proportion of emissions in finland, a larger proportion than in other countries.
this is not the case in countries that have no commitments at all and where the climate target allows even more emissions.
although emissions trading is in theory a cost-effective way of reducing emissions, the proposal for a directive must not place such restrictions on trade as to prevent its benefits from being realised.
in theory, emissions trading is most beneficial for those whose own emissions reduction measures are more expensive than buying emission allowances from others.
(fi) mr president, in order to combat global climate change, the united states proposed global emissions trading of greenhouse gases and the creation of emission allowance exchanges for this purpose.
having a market doesn't reduce emissions.
in countries that have set the most ambitious targets for reducing emissions, companies are put at a disadvantage.
companies that have reduced their emissions before the quotas come into force will be penalised.
it is more expensive for them to increase low-emission production than for companies with high emissions.
the eu emissions trading scheme should not be made compulsory before 2008, although it will be a voluntary pilot project for member states until then.
(fi) mr president, the union's objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions is the right one, but the solution like the eu's decisions is often bureaucratic and costly.
the focus has been more on the details of the system than on reducing emissions.
it also unfairly treats different member states depending on the structure of industry and energy production and also on how much has already been done to reduce emissions.
there has been a lot of criticism of the emissions trading system.
it is particularly difficult for steelworks struggling on the world market, with expansion plans and which have already done a lot to reduce emissions.
the commission made a poor presentation, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy made a lot of improvements, but they were watered down in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the problems of emissions trading affect many industrial sectors across europe.
it's about the right companies and the right jobs for the right people, the right livelihoods for the right families, and the real climate change.
in principle, i am a strong supporter of emissions trading, but i must say that this proposal is worryingly incomplete.
the commission proposal did not address, among other things, the following issues: the competitiveness of companies that have taken early environmental action, in particular in view of the country-specific constraints imposed on burden-sharing; the factors distorting competition in burden-sharing between member states in general; the relationship between emissions trading and the fiscal interests of states; the relationship between emissions trading and free energy markets and the huge income transfers between different actors and different states resulting from their interaction; enlargement; the protection of the eu against attacks by third country actors or soros-type speculators; and the issues of legal protection and redress.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' to cover all aspects of the environment, including the environment.
i've been particularly concerned about the possibility of a carbon leak.
without my amendment, the directive does not distinguish co2 emissions between energy use of coal and process use.
as a result, the european steel industry, which meets globally good environmental standards, is in danger of losing its position on the global market, with enormous economic and environmental damage.
on amendment no 99, concerning the emissions of process-related coal products such as those used in the steel industry, i very much regret that this failed.
in conclusion, i would like to say, as did rod, that i am glad that the effects of medicines on the environment are also being taken into account.
- mr president, the legislative proposals under discussion on the rotterdam convention are a significant step towards protecting human health and the environment in all countries from the potential dangers posed by the trade in hazardous chemicals and pesticides.
the objective of the convention is to increase solidarity and cooperation between the parties in international trade in certain hazardous chemicals and pesticides and thus to contribute to the protection of the environment and health.
i think that this should be the case, because the level of countries that are parties to international environmental agreements is very different and the level agreed in the convention is not necessarily adequate for the eu's objectives.
i therefore believe that environmental agreements should always be implemented in the eu with a higher degree of ambition than the agreement itself would require.
only in this way can a dynamic be created which helps to turn developments which are negative for the environment and human health in a more healthy direction.
the aim of the proposed regulation is to protect the environment and human health.
the candidate countries must be involved as soon as possible in programmes such as ten-energy.
if and when ignalina is closed, and whatever decisions are made about the burning stone, the energy strategies of the baltic states cannot be built solely on the russia card.
the basic philosophy of the energy sector must be that the market economy operates on its own.
this programme and this amount of money will have only a limited impact and will not solve the problems of europe's energy infrastructure.
residents complain about electromagnetic radiation, environmental effects, pollution of the landscape and so on.
we are now deciding on transeuropean networks without taking a position on the technology or the source of the energy that is transmitted through the network.
renewable energy sources, as a complement to basic production, are part of the european energy mix.
i would like to mention amendment no 9. if this is meant to mean that renewable energy sources will enable lower consumer prices, it is not true.
all the studies show that nuclear power offers the lowest prices to consumers of all forms of energy.
as has been said here, it is also important to integrate the new member states into the internal energy market.
here too, it has already been stated that the main responsibility for building and maintaining adequate energy networks lies with eu industry and businesses.
in this respect, energy networks differ from trans-european transport networks, which receive extensive public support.
this will make more efficient use of europe's own energy resources and contribute to the development of the european economy.
the development of transeuropean energy networks must also take account of social and economic convergence.
in line with the union's decisions, the diversification of energy sources and the expansion of the use of renewable energy sources must also be promoted.
the access of distributed renewable energy to the grid at reasonable cost shall be ensured.
at the same time, the production of electricity and other energy sources is decreasing in relation to consumption.
the importance of renewable sources in our logistics system is growing, and so too has the issue of limiting co2 emissions become a central issue, and the importance of natural gas is growing.
where are the largest and closest energy resources for the union?
now that the commissioner in question is listening attentively, i would suggest that the next summit between the european union and russia should seek to reach some kind of concrete decision on energy, both gas and electricity, because we are very interested in both of these and we will be dependent on russia for gas within 20 years.
however, mr commissioner, you did not mention whether the countries will undoubtedly be able to say no to receiving waste that they do not want.
as regards the agreement on russia, we know that there is a debate going on about what is waste and what is nuclear fuel.
(fi) mr president, it is good that these energy issues are being discussed and tackled and that we are now all being brought under the same safety standards.
energy matters are decided at national level, and the role of national regulators will be paramount in the future.
the commission should present criteria in its future proposals for regulations which take account of the disadvantages caused by the difficult natural conditions and the needs arising from the implementation of environmental programmes.
in addition to gdp figures, other factors such as the climate, remoteness, sparsity of population and unemployment rate of the region must also be taken into account.
our neighbour to the north, norway, is experiencing strong economic growth thanks to both energy investment and regional policy.
i have been told that a bus is bringing people from brussels and is expected to arrive about 8.30 p.m. mrs malliori, the draftsperson of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, is on that bus and it would be regrettable if she were not here for the debate.
on the other hand, this directive is in the hughes procedure with the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, and in the environment committee, the commission proposal was unanimously supported, so it can be said that the majority here strongly supports the commission proposal.
the cooperation already in place in this area must be further strengthened with a view to ensuring its stability and social and ecological balance.
in the context of enlargement, distortions of competition due to uneven implementation of directives, for example in environmental and competition policy, must be avoided.
that is why i ask the commissioners what is the situation with energy dialogue when gazprom suddenly decides to build a gas pipeline, and it is a cold decision.
in this job, the energy dialogue between us hasn't been very visible.
we are the world's largest energy region, and so the energy issue is very important.
i do not mean that we should be silent about environmental problems, the lack of democracy or the violation of human rights in russia, for example: it is a question of emphasis and the way we deal with things.
the second important issue of the moment is the development of energy cooperation.
it will enable us to help russia develop its energy economy and protect its environment on the one hand and to safeguard our own energy economy on the other.
in the european union, energy demand is expected to increase by 1% a year.
energy cooperation is not progressing satisfactorily.
this is good news, because it will help to meet the additional energy needs of eu countries.
the problem of energy markets is not solved by operating in the eu on market terms.
the liberalisation of the market makes it virtually impossible to finance new energy investments by long-term supply contracts.
russia refuses to sign the mnepr, multilateral nuclear environmental programme in the russian federation, which would open the way for substantial contributions from the west to clean up nuclear waste in russia, as nielson also mentioned.
the pollution is a threat to people and animals in northern russia.
there is also no new development in the espoo convention on environmental impact assessment of transboundary facilities.
i really hope that the environmental dimension will be included in the question of economic cooperation.
we are doing everything we can, but the environmental dimension must not be forgotten.
i have had to wonder about the bureaucracy between the bank, the commission and the council which has been revealed in the financing of environmental investments in the russian baltic sea basin.
the environment suffered from the political game played by the representatives of the member states.
with a high credit standing and low credit risk, the eib should adhere to strict social and environmental criteria in its lending.
he will ensure that as little waste is generated as possible and that as little is recycled as possible.
secondly, we must highlight the excellent solution proposed by our rapporteur on compulsory collection, which is fully implemented but which must be demonstrated to have been implemented by four kilograms of waste per inhabitant per year.
this means that even one gram of waste is not exempt from liability, even though for various practical reasons - and as a compromise finally reached in the mediation - the obligation to provide evidence itself is only four kilograms.
the whole chain - producers, importers, traders, consumers, waste management and recycling organisations and public authorities - thus has its share of responsibility, but the balance between these responsibilities is excellent.
in addition, market mechanisms have been used in the right way: there are positive incentives to change the way of doing things in a more ecological direction.
unfortunately, the approach adopted by the council up to the very last moment to resolve the costs would not have worked in this way and would not have had the same ecological impact, even though it might have been attractive to the member states from a tax point of view.
i believe that we have found an excellent model in the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, which we hope to be able to apply to many other product groups soon.
as the commission prepares its proposals on these, may it be encouraged by the unanimous support we have received from environmental and consumer organisations and industry in the proposal now before us.
i myself have been a staunch defender of parliament's positions, because we are dealing in many ways with matters which are at the heart of parliament's task: firstly, by this directive we are giving important new rights to citizens; secondly, we are strengthening good governance and transparency; thirdly, we are promoting sustainable development as envisaged at rio and, lastly, we are taking care of the healthy environment of our citizens.
environmental emissions data shall always be provided, even in exceptional cases, except where the exception relates to national defence, judicial protection or intellectual property rights.
the third important outcome of the negotiations is the adoption of a specific new clause on the quality of environmental information requirements.
for emissions, the measurement method shall also be indicated to ensure comparability.
i believe that by the time of the review, the public authorities have also realised that it is in fact to their advantage to have easy databases available from which citizens can search for information themselves: they do not waste public authorities' working time in carrying out their requests.
(fi) mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for having fought like a lioness for access to environmental information.
i can say that if i voted in the conciliation committee in the blank, it was not because of the efforts of the rapporteur or parliament, but because of the council's clear reluctance to really update the environmental information directive and to put forward ambitious targets for the aarhus environmental information access targets.
i would like to point out that this directive is now being tested as to whether we have a sufficiently broad definition of environmental information.