i am firmly convinced that in the face of global uncertainties, our assembly can help to reduce injustice, violence, pollution and poverty.
on the ground, concerns are growing about employment, social protection, public services and sustainable development, while in the council and the commission the wind is blowing in the direction of deregulation, commodification and the whole market.
this is evident in the shopping environment: prices have gone up everywhere, and in alarming proportions, especially for everyday and basic necessities.
thus, in the award of prizes, the lowest price is favoured over social and environmental criteria.
the public authorities should give priority to employment and sustainable development in their economic activities.
the zappalà report, as i said, improves the commission's directive, in particular by raising the thresholds for the opening of public contracts by 50% and also by taking greater account of social and environmental criteria.
in a communication of 15 october, the commission had to put forward the possibility of integrating social and environmental aspects into public procurement procedures.
the aim is to place employment, the environment and land use planning on the same footing as economic cost in the award criteria.
- mr president, by bringing together several sectoral directives such as those on climate change and waste management, the commission wants to set up an innovative programme for improving the environment.
there are also questions of environmental offences, eco-tax and environmental liability legislation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
i am also concerned about the emphasis on biodiversity, with the headache of setting up the natura 2000 network in france and elsewhere.
the first objective of the sixth environmental action programme is to ensure a high level of protection, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity and diversity in the various regions of the community.
we all know that the protection and monitoring of our environment, the prevention of risks, the defence of our territory are all thanks to satellites, which are playing an increasingly important role in our daily lives.
but i know, as we all know here, commissioner, that you are putting all your energy into the completion of this project.
it is about protecting our environment, our individual safety and preserving peace.
otherwise, it would have been a senseless waste of resources.
faster traffic, but also economies of scale, would lead to a cleaner environment.
we doubt that the cotonou agreement will be able to generate a dynamic of sustainable development without a redefinition of a more balanced international economic order, where developing countries will finally have rights.
the structural causes which have impeded the success of the lomé conventions are still present: the burden of debt repayment which is suffocating the budgets of the acp countries and their investment possibilities for sustainable development, the continuing deterioration of the terms of trade to the detriment of the acp countries, the absence of an international system of regulation of trade in basic commodities, a policy of structural adjustment which imposes budgetary restrictions on the acp countries and, finally, an incoherent european policy which, in parallel with its development policy, not only subsidizes its agricultural production and exports its surpluses to developing countries, thus destroying local markets, but also allows industrial fishing vessels to exploit the territorial waters of the acp countries, which undermines the protection of the populations and the livelihood of biodiversity at night.
biodiversity is in danger.
in fact, the environment is relegated to the background in the cotonou agreement.
the aim is simply to limit the environmental impact of development policies, as opposed to a sustainable development strategy.
thirdly, the new common fisheries policy must establish a sustainable management system which therefore integrates the skills, knowledge and expertise of professionals into the decision-making process.
we cannot accept that the lowest price should be favoured in public procurement and that social, territorial and environmental criteria should be relegated to the background.
- the major political obstacle to the adoption of this report concerns the thresholds for the application of european standards which are of major economic importance for public works undertakings, for the environment, for public finances, for the quality of infrastructure.
- the second zappalà report on procurement in the water, energy and transport sectors pursues the same objectives as the first zappalà report on procurement.
the rapporteur, under the guise of simplifying and updating existing community legislation, wants to see the creation of a genuine liberalised european single market in the water, energy and transport sectors.
the battle over thresholds and the battle for better consideration of social and environmental aspects is certainly important.
he believes that the "current economic climate" is the cause.
it's like this so-called "climate" fell out of the sky!
- the development of a market for greener products is certainly a laudable environmental policy objective.
however, environmental policy cannot be conceived in isolation from economic and social considerations.
in this sense, i welcome the development of a 'european eco-label' which will award a value to any product which meets an ecological specification according to specific criteria, which have yet to be defined: it seems to me, in fact, that it is more appropriate to prefer incentive measures to sanctions.
the commission has also proposed that the environmental costs should be included in the calculation of the real cost of products, provided that this does not result in the de facto exclusion of the poorest consumers or at least of the most socially vulnerable consumers.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0467/2001) by mr olsson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the follow-up to the bse crisis with regard to public health and food safety [2000/2321 (ini) ].
farmers want to produce, produce with the quality of their products; environmentalists and health protectors alike want to contribute to sustainable development, but the goals are the same for all.
on waste treatment, how is animal meal stored?
the next item is the report (a5-0025/2002) by mr moreiro da silva, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european community, of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the joint implementation of the commitments thereunder (com (2001) 579 - c5-0019/2002 - 2001/0248 (cns)).
i would also like to say that i think it is obvious and very important that parliament is fully involved in the work we are doing now on the european climate change programme and the proposal on emissions trading.
the eu has been advocating for some years that the kyoto protocol should enter into force at the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg in september this year.
while we can argue about burden sharing, this is only the first step if we are to take climate experts seriously.
at the december council meeting the environment ministers agreed that we should try to find such a technical solution and that a decision should be taken at the council meeting on 4 march.
if this decision is adopted at the march environment council, it will send a clear signal of the union's commitment to the kyoto protocol, reinforcing the eu's credibility and leadership in the fight against climate change.
at the same time, we will continue the dialogue with the united states and try to persuade the united states to re-open the kyoto negotiations or at least to take equivalent national measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
commission president prodi recently said that education, training and research are the key to economic renewal, sustainable development and new jobs.
before i mention the characteristics of the text adopted in new york, let me put the monterrey conference in its proper context, mr president, because it is not an isolated process but part of the process initiated by the millennium declaration, adopted by the united nations general assembly in september 2000, in favour of sustainable development and the fight against poverty in the world.
secondly, everything that concerns the mobilization of financial resources, the united nations conference on financing for development and, thirdly, the environment, the conference on sustainable development which is scheduled to take place, precisely this year, in september in johannesburg.
secondly, i would like to emphasize the european union's position in favour of stressing the need for development to be sustainable and to integrate economic, social and environmental aspects, respecting in any case gender equality and having the fight against poverty as a fundamental objective.
the fact that it is the result of consensus - as i have already said - and that all the donors have been involved in it, makes the monterrey consensus a good platform for the future, because it creates the climate of confidence that this complex process requires and also now makes it easier for the round tables planned in monterrey to develop in a positive, constructive and non-confrontational atmosphere.
by allowing producers in these departments to sell a limited quantity of traditional rum on the french market alone for seven years, we are giving these companies the means to fight the fierce competition from certain third countries and at the same time we are protecting the sustainability of these thousands of jobs.
the commission has also been able to provide the council with a number of proposals for the future of the community's energy policy.
- article 299 (2) of the treaty provides for the possibility of introducing special measures to preserve the vitality of activities in the outermost regions, where economic operators are in urgent need of a climate of legal certainty in order to maintain and develop themselves.
the european union must take the initiative in making concrete proposals and setting a precise timetable for meeting this commitment at the world summit on sustainable development in monterrey in march and then in johannesburg in september.
it is important to remember that this disaster is a humanitarian one, it is an ecological one and that, of course, it occurred when 80% of the farmers had just planted their wheat and maize.
moreover, all this is taking place in a climate - as my two colleagues have said - of violence, of conflict in the great lakes region.
i believe that all this also reflects a climate of insecurity, which we must face.
in accordance with article 96, an inter-eritrean national conference bringing together the various political actors, but also civil society, must be organised with a view to finding a solution to the current crisis and putting the country on the path to democracy and sustainable development.
this strategy, completed in gothenburg, became a strategy for sustainable development in the environmental and social fields.
we wanted to believe in it, we would like to believe in it, we still want to believe in it, but in reality this integration of the economic, social and environmental dimensions is still only a deception.
for her, the union's sustainable development is the efficiency of markets, goods, services, capital and labour.
respect for the commitments of the stability pact and investments in education, research, the environment and networks.
no, for us the real priorities for barcelona are: development of the social and solidarity economy, income autonomy, including for young people whose poverty is increasing greatly, real definition of services of general interest, reduction of working time, investment in the environment and living conditions.
in a difficult international economic environment, the heads of state or government of the union had expressed their desire in lisbon to make the european union, in the medium term, one of the most competitive, dynamic and prosperous economic regions in the world.
barcelona must ensure that this wish does not turn out to be wishful thinking and that the economic, social and environmental reforms implied by this ambitious objective, the achievement of which cannot be delayed, are carried out.
while some countries in the european union are pursuing a policy that has the effect of curbing the will and ability of citizens to undertake, to work and hence to hire, other countries in the union, in the euro zone, have an environment that allows everyone to develop their spirit of initiative and creativity.
the commission is also proposing to amend the law on the protection of the environment by introducing a new law on the protection of the environment.
the barcelona european council, under pressure from blair and berlusconi, will be just one more step towards greater flexibility in work and the liberalisation of the public sectors, particularly energy and gas.
we are far from the requirement of sustainable development, far from the requirement of promoting human capacity, in the north as well as in the south.
we will therefore continue to ask you, the commission, and the council, questions on the following vexing subjects: the feasibility of the tobin tax, the overwhelming responsibilities of the rich countries in the field of climate change, the right of the palestinian people as well as the israeli people to live in freedom and dignity, the right of everyone to the first of security, food security, which is the right to adequate food and access to safe drinking water for all.
it is diverse, but it increasingly expresses a convergence that is emerging around a number of common aspirations: an environmental aspiration against the risk of indiscriminate destruction of natural resources, the biosphere and biodiversity, an aspiration for north-south solidarity against the expansion of development inequalities, a social aspiration against the submission of all economic and social life to the sole logic of the stock market and finance, and an aspiration for democracy, for transparency vis-à-vis the international institutions which play an increasingly important role in global regulation.
and we thought that the conviction would come that the same energy, the same strength, should be devoted to fighting the developmental imbalances of today's world as is devoted to fighting terrorist groups.
i think the committee that has examined it should look at the possibilities which, according to this expert, would make it possible to organise redistribution from a tobin-type tax, which could begin to finance, on an international scale, access to global public goods, the right to water, the right to clean energy for all, the right to education, the right to a future.
- mr president, the revision of the postal directive is not, in our view, sustainable.
it is not sustainable from the point of view of the general interest of the european citizens, and its vote today would be an irresponsible political act.
no, it is definitely not sustainable to accept today a common position which still bears too much resemblance to that of its first reading.
taking account of fundamental rights to public services, environmental quality and energy security?
making way for new entrants to renewable energy is justified.
mr president, today we are voting on the acceleration of the liberalization of the energy sector.
today, however, a new energy policy must be promoted.
- madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy is not a sector like any other, and that is why the debate cannot be limited to the question of opening up to competition and its timetable.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy of parliament has therefore proposed a delay of 24 months after the adoption of the directive.
in addition, and this is the meaning of amendment no 177, which has already been mentioned by philippe herzog, we have asked that it be ensured that at the time of this opening up to competition the other elements of the organisation of the sector, public service obligations, security of supply, the defence of renewable energies, the safety of the installations, environmental protection, are operational.
that is why we propose that the member states, if they so wish, should be able to maintain a sector which is not open to competition so that equalization remains possible and that equal access to the public energy service continues to be a reality in our countries.
- mr president, madam de palacio, pollution control is a noble but difficult struggle, balancing economic and human welfare.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have the pleasure of presenting the report on biodiversity.
i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the opinions of the committees on agriculture, fisheries and development, who all support the proposal that your rapporteur has put forward on the preservation of biodiversity.
we know that they are excellent observers who are well aware of the state of biodiversity around the world.
the situation is not very bright, mr president, and i would like to answer a question which is not really asked but which is often overlooked in the speeches of some of our colleagues: what is the real purpose of biodiversity, or, in simpler terms, why preserve nature when there are so many other issues of concern?
i would remind you that biodiversity is an element of our own survival and that while nature does not need humans to survive, we humans need it to live.
our responsibility as elected officials is to preserve the richness of biodiversity.
every living species that disappears from the planet is a net and irreversible loss, and if we allow biodiversity to be destroyed we are gradually destroying ourselves.
it is not that man is destroying or threatening biodiversity out of selflessness.
ten years later, it is still the poor relative: the states that signed the convention have not kept their commitments and no country has, at present, included biodiversity in its priorities for the september summit in johannesburg.
we ask that the union put the issue of biodiversity on the agenda of the johannesburg summit and that the commission present an action plan there, as it does for the european union.
we must recall the fundamental role of biodiversity as a cornerstone of sustainable development and the importance of full implementation of the convention and its provisions.
we also call on the union to implement an ambitious policy to preserve its own biodiversity.
additional action plans are needed, for example for forestry and transport, because all these community policies have had or are having a negative impact on biodiversity.
i quote the report: 'during the past two decades, the rate of decline and loss of biodiversity in europe and the world has accelerated dramatically and the measures taken have proved insufficient to reverse the trend.'
we already have the birds and habitats directives, which help to preserve some of our biodiversity.
the second way to achieve results in the implementation of environmentally sustainable development, as the gothenburg summit has also agreed, is to have effective measuring instruments to assess the integration of the environment into the policies of the union.
the spring european council in barcelona is expected to adopt six environmental indicators.
indeed, we hear nothing about biodiversity.
we also ask the commission to present a specific indicator for biodiversity by 2003. if we want to achieve results in terms of biodiversity, we know that this issue must be imposed on the union's policies immediately and every day.
while there is consensus among the various groups in this parliament on the means of preserving biodiversity, there is still some disagreement among some members on the impact of gmos on biodiversity.
and here, as the author of the report, i would like to see the references to the environmental responsibility of gmos for the pollution of rural areas retained.
- mr president, at a time when natura 2000 is being established almost everywhere in europe, against the wishes of the rural population and with disastrous consequences for man, i regret that this report on biodiversity was debated in haste in the committee on the environment.
the creation of national biodiversity strategies or action plans could only be considered if they were developed after a broad consensus, with respect for regional socioeconomic interests.
as regards enlargement and the rapporteur's proposal to retain a flagship project for the protection of biodiversity, it should be borne in mind that the applicant countries want to join the union in order to overcome their economic and social backwardness as quickly as possible and to modernise their infrastructures.
biodiversity is not their main concern.
i regret that the four amendments i tabled in committee were all rejected, including the one in which i advocated a cap that respects the environment and also the rural community.
what about the desire to increase funding for natura 2000 and other biodiversity measures?
what is the aim of this maximalist approach to biodiversity protection?
the question i have to ask myself when reading this report is whether the rapporteur still considers that man is part of this biodiversity.
- yes, madam rapporteur, the alarms raised on all sides about the depletion of biodiversity are justified.
yes, there are plant species which are disappearing, animal species which are threatened and, even within species and breeds which are not in danger of extinction, declining populations, inbreeding and the uncontrolled spread of gmos are introducing genetic depletion which is a threat to the environment.
on the contrary, are they not likely to produce the opposite of the desired effect and to cause abandonment of agricultural activity which will harm biodiversity?
we will therefore support you, madam rapporteur, in your reaffirmation of the polluter-pays principle, in your caution with regard to gmos, and in your call for subsidiarity, but we will not follow you in your call for the commission to tighten up its proposals on agriculture, which would be tantamount to a complete dismantling of the cap as from 2003. we cannot preserve biodiversity without farmers.
is it reasonable to involve several thousand municipal and regional slaughterhouses in the construction of hundreds of waste water treatment plants and incinerators at a time when bse testing is progressing very rapidly?
however, the wording of the text proposed to parliament at second reading - and i am referring to article 4 - states that all animal material collected during the treatment of waste water in slaughterhouses and other premises must be classified as category 1, and this is a wording and a development of the text that worries us.
such a provision would create enormous problems of storage, collection and disposal, since sludge from waste water treatment including slaughter activities could no longer be spread in the fields but would have to be incinerated, in addition to the millions of tonnes of animal meal that we have to dispose of.
but i for my part deeply regret the climate of mutual distrust that this controversy has created.
but i say this in friendship, in great friendship for the applicant countries: their accession to the union, which we hope, which we are preparing, which we are waiting for, must take place in a climate of trust with a very strong will to live together and not in a climate of distrust or even of defiance.
- it is clear that the progress made in recent years in defining and guaranteeing universal service in the postal service (as in other areas, for example energy) is a major advance which we had great difficulty in imagining and hoping for in the early 1990s.
we know that storage can be a health and environmental hazard.
we condemn this policy of dismantling public services, whose sole purpose is to satisfy the capitalists' appetite for profit, whether it is admitted as such in the mombaur report or whether it is badly concealed under ecological considerations, as in the turmes-rapkay report.
- energy is not a commodity like other commodities!
i am thinking of the convention on the rights of the child, disarmament, biological weapons, the international criminal court, climate change, kyoto and many others, not to mention the overly biased american attitude to the middle east conflict.
europe must affirm that we cannot face the instability, the dangers and the imbalances of today's world with a mere stick in the hand, that we must also be able to win the battle for peace, that it is necessary to devote the same energy today to combating inequalities in development, to reducing sources of tension such as that in the middle east, as that which has been deployed to combat terrorism.
the only proposals that are seen are those for reform which are already well known, such as lifelong learning, strengthening research, completing the financial services market or opening up the energy and transport markets, but which do not produce immediate results.
in the autumn, the september 11 attacks, together with the steady rise in industrial accidents and natural accidents related to the greenhouse effect, reminded us that insurance is also a high-risk activity.
the two additional years should therefore be devoted to a substantive reflection on the european union's cooperation with local actors in developing countries and their contribution to sustainable development.
i can also support amendment no 3, which stresses the ecological importance of the shellfish sector for the environment.
i believe that support measures should also be aimed at promoting sustainability and protecting the environment in rural areas, and not just at making the sector economically competitive.
it is clear that the rate of decline and loss of biodiversity in europe and worldwide is accelerating.
as a first step, europe must ensure that environmental legislation is applied.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be given the possibility of adopting the new directive on the protection of the environment.
agriculture must play a central role, and the new cap cannot afford to ignore reforms which take account of the requirements of sustainable development.
the european union, and in particular the european parliament, is very much committed to the protection of citizens, their environment, their daily lives and their health.
the urban waste water directive is an example of this misapplication.
adopted in 1991, it aims to protect the environment from the effects of urban wastewater and biodegradable wastewater discharges from the food industry.
the main obligation of the member states is to set up waste water collection and treatment systems and to respect a pre-established timetable.
today, the widespread introduction of compulsory retirement represents a huge waste of skills, talent and experience.
we are being asked to accept by 2004 the total liberalisation of the energy sector at the expense of the public service logic based on the principles of continuity, equal access and treatment of all users, land use planning and environmental protection.
- the agenda calls for a joint debate on: the report (a5-0080/2002) by mr di lello finuoli, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft council framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law (new consultation) [15525/2001 - c5-0022/2002 - 2000/0801 (cns)) and the report (a5-0099/2002) by mrs oomen-ruijten, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law (com (2001) 139 - c5-0011/2001 - 2001/0076 (cod)).
mr president, the commission is today presenting a proposal for a directive which requires member states to impose criminal penalties for a number of particularly serious infringements of community environmental law.
there is no denying that a more and more degraded environment needs to be protected and that strict enforcement measures are unavoidable.
this article provides for a number of common actions to be undertaken in the field of the environment, but it fully respects, in accordance with the general philosophy of the treaties, the autonomy of the member states in matters of criminal law.
it would be quite specious to claim that the right to impose criminal penalties is implicitly contained in the community's competence to protect the environment, because it is indispensable to its implementation and therefore inseparable from it.
the danish presidency had presented a draft framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law, which encouraged tougher penalties while better respecting the freedom of states by establishing its legal basis on the third pillar, i.e.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are in fact a great many european directives and regulations designed to protect the environment in all its various aspects.
in most cases, the application of financial or material penalties by applying the polluter-pays principle is considered insufficient by a public opinion fully aware of the lack of dissuasiveness of these penalties in view of the considerable profits generated by the activities which are the source of the greatest pollution.
we also know that some environmental damage is quite irreversible and therefore not likely to be physically repaired.
these considerations therefore justify the adoption by the member states of provisions designed to penalise non-compliance with european environmental requirements.
in addition, and because we are committed to strengthening environmental legislation by means of effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions, we must adopt a solid text that is beyond any legal challenge and is not liable to be sanctioned by the court of justice.
– mr president, i wish to thank mrs oomen-ruijten and mr di lello finuoli for their excellent work on two texts that cover the same subject: the proposal for a directive and a draft framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
the extraordinary european council meeting in tampere in 1999 agreed in that common definitions, common incriminations and common sanctions should be established in a limited number of sectors of particular importance, and among those sectors it highlighted the environmental crime issue.
as the house will recall – and several members referred to it – in 2000, denmark presented an initiative for a framework decision on combating serious environmental crime.
they seek to improve the implementation of community environmental law and have the same starting point: we all recognise that there is a lack of effectiveness in the protection of the environment in our member states.
the key aim of our proposal is to create an additional guarantee of impartiality and to give authorities greater scope for cross-border investigations of environmental crimes.
the framework decision has the leverage to allow the judicial authorities of the member states to pursue cross-border investigations on environmental crimes.
we respect subsidiarity because the framework decision put forward by denmark very closely follows the council of europe convention concerning environmental crime.
- i voted against the oomen-ruijten report which supports the commission's claim to include the principle of criminal sanctions against offenders in the community's environmental protection powers.
should environmental crime be made part of the community acquis and should we say that this objective will be better achieved at union level?
the aim of punishing all breaches of environmental legislation is an unrealistic goal, which is intended to satisfy the demands of a few powerful but unrepresentative environmental lobbies.
i also do not share the view of the di lello finuoli report which calls on the council not to take any action on criminal environmental law until the draft directive on environmental protection has been adopted.
it is true that we have come a long way, because after the tragedy of the amoco cadiz, which all europeans, and particularly all the french, remember, nothing had happened but, on the contrary, things had got worse since the oil tankers had chosen to withdraw from transport so as not to see their names on the hulls of the stranded ships and to no longer be linked to all these strandings and acts of pollution.
so our parliament has a special legitimacy to intervene on these issues, not only because they concern the environment but also because they are, by their nature, transnational and it is a good text towards which we are moving, but i would like to stress one particular point.
the ambition of sustainable development, that is to say, solidarity and ecological development in the mediterranean, cannot be reduced to the design of a free trade area.
and at sea (waste oil, algae proliferation, etc.)
- twenty-eight months after the sinking of the erika, we are still debating measures to control the traffic of ships, measures which are part of the package of legislation called erika ii and which are supposed to help prevent new environmental disasters of the same type.
- today, waste electrical and electronic equipment (televisions, household appliances, etc.)
however, these products contain toxic substances that are harmful to the environment (lead, cadmium, mercury, etc.).
it seems important to adopt legislation to manage this waste more effectively and to encourage manufacturers to participate actively in the collection system.
this text provides a perspective for the prevention of electrical and electronic waste and the development of systems for the recovery and reuse of such waste.
if national competences in the field of pensions are not called into question, it is the open method of coordination, an integrated approach to national strategies to ensure safe and sustainable pensions, which is proposed to us and which was the subject of mr fatuzzo's report.
the question is what is the meaning of such cooperation, and how can the objective of secure and sustainable pensions be achieved?
the consequences of this ageing population - which is also a sign of undeniable health and social progress - are therefore of particular concern, since the current ratio of four workers to one pensioner will be reduced to two workers to one pensioner in 2030. that is why the communication presented by the commission, which aims to ensure safe and sustainable pensions through an integrated approach in the service of national strategies, the schemes - particularly public schemes - of which are national competence, seems to us particularly welcome in the european debate.
it is worth noting that many countries of the european union have begun to take bold steps to make their pension systems sustainable.
in this context too, unlike others, i welcome the commitment of the barcelona european council of 15 and 16 march 2002 to intensify efforts to give older workers more opportunities to remain in the labour market, for example through flexible progressive retirement schemes and by guaranteeing genuine access to education and training throughout life, and to gradually increase the average age at which work ceases in the european union by about five years by 2010. in fact, it seems to me appropriate to be able to offer, in the present context, an approach of free choice, centred on the individual journeys of employees and their different life stages, which sometimes put an end to a short retirement and can be the source of an invaluable human waste.
the council has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster.
but i would also like to point out that the subject of education is not a community matter but is a matter for the member states alone and i am very pleased to know (though i do not know it in detail, but i do know enough to say so) that in most member states environmental issues are already included in primary and secondary education and, of course, in university education.
you all know that everywhere we hear only about sustainable development, sustainable development, without knowing exactly what these terms mean.
so this is where action is needed and i think it would be interesting if the council and the union took the initiative to ensure that every pupil, perhaps every secondary school pupil, could receive a course on 'sustainable development and the environment' within the european union.
i think there is an urgency here, because we have been hearing about the environment for thirty years, about environmental education, and in the end it is always a matter for the member states or for voluntary action.
the risk of serious illness to people exposed to asbestos is now well known, not only in the production process but also in the handling of asbestos waste.
- the fatuzzo report on the sustainability of pension systems in the european union shows in a fascinating way how brussels manages to take over an issue, as if it were its own responsibility, when not a word of the treaty refers to pensions, which are legally, it is undeniable, a purely national responsibility.
as usual, it all begins with cautious communications from the commission, which are intended to show that the sustainability of pensions affects some european competences in a more or less direct way.
even in our countries, within the union, how many children do not receive the care to which they are entitled, nor the environment conducive to their development, simply because their parents are poor, socially excluded or are immigrants without papers.
what better example than that of our european history can there be to save angola from the scourge of neo-colonialism and to lead that country in complete transparency and independence along the path of sustainable economic development and the emancipation of its people?
the national scale remains relevant in development matters and remains essential if public policies are to be based on sustainable development and the general interest.
employment in tourism is often highly seasonal and precarious, which is an obstacle to sustainable development.
developing well in the long term: tourism must be a sustainable source of income for local economies while safeguarding and enhancing the richness of the landscape, culture, history and environment.
on 23 april our committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy adopted 90 amendments, 30 of which were to be incorporated into the specific programmes.
we have insisted on research, on sustainable development and on reducing external environmental costs.
we have other reasons to be pleased with this framework programme: the theme of sustainable development was introduced for the first time with a very large budget of over €2.2 billion; energy research in the context of renewable energy reaches the level of nuclear energy research; sustainable transport and research on urban and rural ecosystems, including the concept of an ecosite, are new themes that have been accepted.
the amount of capital income and, more generally, how it works are hidden behind the famous business secrecy, made for all waste, all speculation and all corruption.
poor countries, he said, can only do without the energy sources used by rich countries: they are too expensive for them.
nor does it mention the beneficiaries of high energy prices - including european companies that are among the world's oil, gas or electricity giants.
the rapporteur cites as an aid the fact that the european union is installing alternative energy technologies in rural areas of india, the patents of which are generally owned by the energy giants already mentioned.
the declaration will follow the same structure as the last brussels summit and will deal with foreign policy, security and defence, cooperation in the fields of justice and home affairs, kaliningrad, the common european economic area, trade and investment, energy dialogue, the environment and nuclear safety, and cooperation in science, technology and space.
at the meeting with prime minister kassianov, mr lamy, the commissioner responsible for trade, said that russia's declaration on energy prices would also be a condition for progress in the wto negotiations.
in relation to these two aspects - the wto and the market economy consideration - one of the most important points in the relationship between the european union and russia is the energy dialogue.
the main russian concerns in this area include the possible negative consequences of enlargement for its energy exports to the new member states and the attention to the capital from the european union needed for the modernisation of its infrastructure.
another of the constant demands of the community is that russia ratify the treaty we negotiated many years ago, the so-called energy charter and the transit protocol.
it is expected that a declaration on energy dialogue will be adopted at this summit, as proposed by the russian side.
on this question of the environment and nuclear safety, the community side has told russia that one of the results we would like to see at the summit would be russia's commitment to ratify the text of the kyoto protocol as soon as possible.
in relation to nuclear safety, our interest is that russia should sign the agreement called the multilateral nuclear and environmental program in the russian federation.
the importance of environmental aspects in the implementation of the northern dimension action plan is also worth noting.
as the arctic is an important source of energy supplies for the european union, the possibility of including, where appropriate, the arctic in the energy dialogue should be considered.
we hope that in return russia will be able to respond to our proposals, notably concerning double energy pricing, and the adoption of a conciliation system under the partnership and cooperation agreement to help ensure trade disputes are tackled in an objective, efficient and non-politicised manner.
the summit will also look at a progress report on the energy dialogue, which moved into a more concrete phase at the brussels summit last october.
the presidency referred to the importance of the environment in our dialogue.
we will, among other things, be pressing russia to ratify the kyoto protocol, ideally before the un johannesburg summit on sustainable development in september.
i believe that the commission should not be accused of lacking a strategic vision - the commission defends the european positions in this transatlantic relationship - but that, in the face of this blockage by the american administration, the answer is certainly not to give up being ourselves but perhaps to affirm more generally, at international level, our european strategic vision for dealing with the great problems of collective security, of co-development, of the future of the planet and the environment.
the european people should not just see the new farm bill as a trade disruption instrument, but also, by its objectives, its scope and its duration, as a recognition of the right of each country to support its agriculture, because of specific issues, including social, territorial and environmental balance, which cannot be left to the free trade mechanisms alone.
but now, with the enlargement of the european union to the east, a small part of this drifting russia, the kaliningrad region, is going to be sandwiched between two member states, with all that this implies in terms of pollution, drug trafficking, arms, human beings, etc.
mr president, the concept of sustainable development reflects a correct intuition, namely that there are fundamental balances on the planet which must be respected.
however, to be operational, the concept of sustainable development must apply to clearly defined priorities.
it is essential to avoid the development of perverse mechanisms, such as the disappearance of food crops due to cheap agricultural imports, and, as a corollary, the orientation of developing countries towards the export of cash crops which do not generate local development or raw materials on which it is extremely difficult to base sustainable development because of the great variability of their prices.
in the midst of all the issues raised by the lannoye report, these seem to me, mr president, to be the priorities that must be set if the concept of sustainable development is to make a real contribution to poverty reduction in our world today.
an economic system which, on the one hand, subsidizes food waste, destroys or stores food to keep prices up, and, on the other, leaves 826 million people undernourished and 16 million of them starving to death, is a criminal system in itself.
floods, desertification, ecological disasters are multiplying, accelerating, and it is in this context, with the pressure of a countdown, that we will go to johannesburg in september.
but this text is our conscience and sustainable development will remain an ideal until we are able to exert a certain influence on the world economies and finance.
political means require a different kind of global governance, and sustainable development policies are and must be part of that.
it also undoubtedly requires the proper use of water and the preservation of biodiversity, which is expected to be declared a "global public good" by the international community.
but in the main, we cannot forget that it requires in particular the exploitation of fisheries and the promotion of the development of subsistence agriculture in a sustainable way.
in this unfavourable environment, france is trapped in the socialist budgetary legacy.
- this report raises the question of the future of our planet in terms of pollution in a very raw way.
progress is not commensurate with the problems and the natural development prospects of emerging countries (we can imagine the pollution produced by a country like china when it reaches our level of development) can only worsen the situation in terms of the environment.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the coming to power of president wahid in indonesia, a president who defends human rights, opposes all sectarianism and is in favour of religious neutrality in the state, we europeans could hope for an improvement in the political climate in that country.
this plan is absurd and contradictory, since, while it claims to preserve fish, it actually condemns the most regulated fisheries, the ones most concerned with preserving the sustainability of the resource, to the benefit of third-party fleets, the least respectful of conservation, which, if we follow mr fischler, will be called upon to supply almost exclusively a rapidly expanding european fish market.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now we have been advocating vigilance and concrete action, stock management and the preservation of the marine environment in the context of the common fisheries policy.
these proposals, which are aimed at sustainable fishing, have left most governments with no reaction to the issue.
this should not only save the furniture but also give fisheries a new impetus and the sustainable development which is essential to our economic and human equilibrium.
the guarantee of sustainability in any field is for us the result of a balance between economic objectives, environmental objectives, of course, but also social objectives.
more than ever, the cap must promote or strengthen the multifunctional nature of our agriculture in all its cmos to ensure food security, sustainable development, rural development and territorial balances, as well as animal welfare.
finally, i would like to make a final plea for a restored cap based, firstly, on a budget that is always in line with its priorities, with public support distributed equitably to farmers on the basis of modulations; secondly, on a policy of strengthened market management that enhances the quality of products, reducing our dependence on certain imports such as vegetable proteins, and thirdly, on a policy of agricultural incomes that guarantees the sustainability of farms throughout the territory.
it must also enable farmers to meet society's new expectations in terms of quality, environmental protection and animal welfare and finance additional costs that the market is not prepared to bear.
rural development is not, however, intended to address all the environmental, social and territorial challenges of the rural world.
the agricultural budget cannot replace the inadequate funding of non-agricultural projects, as one might be tempted to do for purely environmental projects such as the life programmes, to give just one example.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear that we must rebuild a european agricultural model which is no longer exclusively geared to production, but which, on the contrary, redefines multifunctional agriculture, which ensures social balance and employment stability, territorial planning and respect for the environment.
if we do not support these productions, we will leave the field open to latin american multinationals for whom respect for social, environmental or human dignity standards is only a secondary consideration.
and we will turn our backs on the agriculture we want to build, an agriculture linked to environmental protection, consumer protection and the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the european union.
my attention and the discussion in the commission has been focused on the innovation of this text from my point of view, an important innovation, since it consists in supporting the establishment of what is called an 'indigenous primary energy base' to preserve the independence of the european union for this product.
in any case, she calls, and she has called on my behalf and on behalf of a number of other colleagues, for the following remarks: is europe threatened if this indigenous base of primary energy is not established?
we naturally welcome the fact that the new guidelines proposed for the transeuropean networks are in line with and in line with the policy of sustainable mobility which is also proposed in the white paper.
i believe that this was a coherence which was absolutely necessary and i personally consider that the new objectives proposed to us are probably sustainable objectives which will go beyond the other phases of reorientation of these projects.
the green paper on the security of energy supply took account of this.
it is envisaged to maintain a minimum production capacity as coal remains an important indigenous source of energy, available in the long term, stable and safe.
the car is a product which is both expensive and highly technological, and which affects issues as important to consumers as safety and environmental protection.
i am elected in france, in the auvergne region, which has many assets but also faces the difficulties of local economic development, and i know how important the sustainability of networks of garages and car dealerships is, not only because they contribute to the economic vitality of these territories in terms of employment and training, especially for young people, but also because of what they bring to the consumer in terms of safety and local services.
agenda 2000 has failed and the principle of its reform must be a price policy which integrates both the demands of consumers for more safety, quality and traceability, the demands of citizens for sustainable, environmentally friendly agriculture, covering the whole territory and the demands of farmers for decent incomes.
fundamentally, although it does entail trade distortions that need to be examined, the farm bill reflects a major shift in the us position, which now recognizes that the sustainability of agriculture cannot be ensured by free trade rules alone.
it seems to me that the social and environmental practices of european companies should be subject to controls comparable to those applied to competition practices.
ideally, companies, large investors, would have a strategy that goes beyond their short-term profit horizon, they would combine economic expansion, social progress and sustainable development... the race for profit in the globalised economy requires us to adopt pragmatic measures to ensure that the social principles developed at political level do not remain a dead letter.
one suggestion is that the commission should make a proposal, in the framework of the appropriate directive, to oblige companies to produce social and environmental reports just as they do in financial matters.
- mr president, commissioner, when we talk about sustainable development, unfortunately, it is very difficult to do anything concrete.
but such a summit every ten years should enable us to achieve results, whether it be on energy, water, economic development, developing countries.
i feel that we are giving ourselves a clear conscience when we talk about sustainable development, but it is still an empty shell.
i hope that under the influence of such cooperation, the united states can become a participant in the fight against poverty, the protection of resources, energy development and climate change, as europe, and soon, i hope, russia and japan.
how can they contribute to sustainable development by removing their development advisers as was proposed in seville?
to this end, the joint research centre has refocused its non-nuclear activities on two core areas, supported by vertical competences: food, chemicals and health, environment and sustainable development.
in certain areas, the proposals of the joint research centre seem indispensable to clarify the calls for tenders that may be made, for example, in the field of sustainable development.
the role of the joint research centre as a risk mediator should also be borne in mind: risk exposure, impact assessment, repair, nuclear safety problems and waste, in synergy with the eur-opa major risks programmes.
the centre's activities should be extended to the operational implementation of concrete projects on energy saving, particularly in the building sector, and renewable energies.
its achievements must not be confined to research on photovoltaic energy, but must also promote demonstration projects in other fields such as wind energy.
it will also study how to optimise their impact on the environment and local development.
in conclusion, the main objectives of the joint research centre will therefore be to remain close to its users, the european parliament and the commission, to develop its role as a recognised centre of excellence on safety, health and environmental issues, and to develop its activities as a research network operator.
- mr president, in the proposal for a council decision on the euratom research programme in the field of nuclear energy which the commission is submitting to us, i note that the union's needs appear to be correctly identified for the short and long term, but i observe a total impasse as regards the medium-term vision.
on the one hand, it is the management of final waste and spent fuel: extensive reprocessing, transmutation into products with less and less radioactivity and shorter and shorter life spans.
this is the first priority and we must give ourselves the means to achieve the deactivation of this final waste.
although european nuclear installations have already demonstrated their high level of safety and are subject to very strict environmental control and protection measures, this effort must be continued.
the commission has also been asked to present a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the first is that we find in this text, for the first time at community level, the definition of 'sexual harassment': 'any form of unwanted verbal, non-verbal or physical behaviour with sexual connotations, which is carried out with the intention or with the effect of violating the dignity of a person, in particular by creating an intimidating, hostile, humiliating or offensive environment'.
in formulating its common position, the council generally retained the spirit and objectives of the proposal, namely to address the problems of maritime safety and to protect the marine environment.
the common position expresses our most urgent wish to see both maritime safety and the protection of the marine environment strengthened.
this does not mean that we are against enlargement, on the contrary, but we must make the granting of aid subject to certain social and ecological conditions, which we are not doing.
the principles governing the cap, aid and support which are justified by the environmental, social and health constraints and requirements on our farmers, must apply without discrimination to the old and new member states, provided that the latter respect the same constraints.
on the contrary, we believe that this question should be answered on a country-by-country basis, taking into account the particular situation and structure of agriculture in each country, the social impact of their transition to the cap, and the desirable, desirable and sustainable pace for each of their agriculture.
secondly, the idea that we must look at the economic capacity of the applicant countries with a certain degree of flexibility, taking into account the need to create the conditions for sustained and sustainable economic growth.
the green paper asks whether fifg has contributed to the sustainability of fish stocks or has led to distortion in the industry.
farmers in the member states cannot accept that their products are competed with by products which do not meet the same health or environmental requirements.
but what if, in addition to the agricultural constraints, we added the objectives of protecting biodiversity and wildlife before accession?
the regulatory and administrative environment in which our companies operate also weighs on their competitiveness.
- we vote against the report by mr konstantinos alyssandrakis on the nuclear energy research and training programme.
the first urgent measure to tackle the problem is to stop producing this waste and then to focus research on its management in situ with a view to phasing out nuclear energy.
- the dismantling of public services; industrial restructuring leading to an explosion in unemployment, particularly in the czech republic, slovakia, lithuania and poland; ongoing or planned closure of energy sources in lithuania, estonia and bulgaria, with dramatic social and economic implications; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore proposing to extend the measures to include the following: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the effects of the crisis on the community's agricultural production.
agriculture, health and the environment are facing enormous challenges.
it is also unfair to make the entry of these countries conditional on strict compliance with legislation on the protection of biodiversity: let us not forget that these countries come to us to consolidate peace on the european continent, to develop their infrastructures and to catch up with their considerable economic backwardness.
but we would also like to see this policy reformed to make it a 'sustainable cap' (see my explanation of vote on the olsson report).
- we voted against this text, another plea for the european institutions to be put even more at the service of private capital, for capital to be unhindered in europe and for the opening up of markets to become a reality in the sectors where privatisation is not yet complete: telecommunications, energy, postal services, transport.
the biofuels in question can be produced in a productivist way, with gmos, with inputs per hectare: but then the overall ecological balance would be negative.
on the other hand, if we follow the guiding logic which has been the common agricultural policy for some time, that is to say, if we practice greater crop rotation and if we actually respect the environment, then biofuels and their production could become a positive complement to direct production for farmers.
the first reason is that the price of fossil fuels does not include the external costs of using a non-renewable resource - oil - and of massive greenhouse gas emissions.
it is therefore perfectly legitimate for the member states to apply differentiated taxation, a term which seems to us more appropriate than taxation, taxation which would promote the competitiveness of renewable fuels of plant origin and which does not contribute to the greenhouse effect.
the aim is therefore to shift the excise duty on motor fuels towards a kind of eco-tax which hits fossil fuels more heavily than renewable fuels because of their negative externality.
the commission's tax proposal should help the european union to achieve the green paper's target on the security of energy supply: 20% of alternative fuels in the road transport sector by 2020. the amendments adopted by the agriculture committee aim to make the directive more effective by emphasising that biofuels produced in the european union produce, as co-products, plant-based protein-rich material which can be used in animal feed.
by removing the totally arbitrary limit of 50% to the tax differential; by removing the time limit - 31 december 2010 - since the externalities of oil sectors are permanent; allowing the total de-leaching of fuels used for the production of biofuels as is already the case for the production of petroleum products; specifying that the tax exemption can only apply to biofuels produced in the european union, otherwise the european union would not benefit from the greenhouse gas emission reductions or from the co-production of feed proteins.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, when i listened to the long account of the tasks facing your government over the past six months, i thought, as did mr prodi, that spain had shown in that short period of time both energy and wisdom.
such harmonization implies more social rules and greater consideration of the environment.
and of course we greens believe that it will only be valid if it is accompanied by a genuine transport policy with, i would remind you, modal transport, the internalisation of environmental costs in infrastructure prices, a social regime for road workers and harmonization for road hauliers.
we therefore voted in favour of all amendments which increase the traffic restrictions on the grounds of 'topographical, ecological or road safety considerations'.
- mr president, i naturally voted for the turchi report which raises the european funding levels for crossborder networks to 20%, but i consider that this commission proposal is totally out of step with the challenges and in particular with the new directions of its sustainable mobility policy.
and when we see the delays in essen's work, when we see that today, when we are being proposed a new policy for sustainable mobility that is extremely demanding in terms of public incentives, when we see that the council has just withdrawn or postponed the six new projects that are absolutely essential to the implementation of the commission's new transport policy, which were included in the proposals for guidelines for the enp, we can only plead for the problem of financing the transeuropean networks to be finally addressed, and for our european transport policy to finally have the means to live up to its ambitions.
- the report highlights the insufficient development of the trans-european networks in the field of transport, particularly rail, and in the interconnection of energy networks.
moreover, the increased interconnection of gas and electricity networks is not aimed at rationalizing the distribution of energy throughout the union, but at opening up the gas and electricity markets to competition, which is another step, especially in france, towards the privatization of edf and gdf, a process which we reject completely.
- it seems absurd to discuss the usefulness or otherwise of biofuels without discussing the control of all energy resources, from oil to clean energy and nuclear energy.
if there is one area where conscious planning should prevail on a global scale, it is in the production and transport of energy and the management of energy resources, especially as the choice between different energy sources can have major consequences for the future of the planet.
these trusts have the means to impose their choices on the whole earth and to use the states and their fiscal policy to promote the most profitable form of energy.
the 'energy dependence of the union', which the report deplores, is not reflected in the producing countries but in the trusts.
to discuss the choice between different forms of energy validly, these trusts would have to be given control over their strategy and even over the direction of their research.
- it is perfectly legitimate for member states to apply differential taxation to promote the competitiveness of fuels of plant origin, which are renewable and do not contribute to the greenhouse effect.
the member states must be able to move excise duties on motor fuels towards a kind of eco-tax, hitting fossil fuels more heavily, because of their negative externalities, than renewable fuels.
as rapporteur for the committee on agriculture, i am pleased to see parliament adopt the main amendments which i proposed and which our committee unanimously approved: total tax exemption for fuels used for the production of biofuels, as is already the case for the production of petroleum products; the removal of the totally arbitrary 50% limit on the tax differential; the need to avoid the promotion of biofuels leading to imports of biomass which would deprive the european union of the benefits of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and of the co-production of animal protein for animal feed, in which we are in serious shortfall.
in return, we must ensure that food and feed do not present any risk to human health, animal health or the environment and that the use of genetically modified organisms does not present such risks.
the real issues involved in genetic engineering are indeed ethical and environmental.
ethical, because the manipulation of chromosome information falls within other limits than those of the technically possible; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
i am therefore pleased to be able to support mrs scheele and the committee on the environment, which not only calls for clear labelling but also for lowering the traceability threshold to 0.5%.
it is our duty as legislators to ensure that the health and safety of consumers are guaranteed and that the environment and biodiversity are protected.
the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified products must therefore, in accordance with this legislation and in accordance with the precautionary principle, provide a high level of protection for human health and the environment.
it is important to be able to identify genetically modified organisms that are to be deliberately released into the environment for cultivation, as such products contain viable genetically modified organisms that can reproduce and spread.
however, the potential risks to the environment of products containing genetically modified organisms intended for direct use in food, feed or processing are limited, as these organisms will not be cultivated.
the current community authorisation framework already includes a number of conditions for authorisation of genetically modified organisms and genetically modified food, including that they must not cause harmful effects on human health and the environment.
the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy frequently resulted in amendments being rejected or adopted by a very low margin.
concerning environmental risk assessment, a series of amendments challenge the suggestion that the european food safety authority should carry out the environmental risk assessment as part of the overall assessment of a gm food or feed.
the commission cannot therefore accept the amendments requiring the environmental risk assessment for gmos covered by the food and feed proposal to be carried out only under directive 2001/18.
in the eu, the scientific committees have already assessed a number of gmos and concluded that they do not pose a risk to the environment or to human health.
to conclude, let me again thank the rapporteur, professor trakatellis, the environment committee, and indeed the whole parliament for their excellent work on this programme.
- the next item is the report (a5-0243/2002) by mr lisi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 96/82/ec of 9 december 1996 on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances (com (2001) 624 - c5-0668/2001 - 2001/0257 (cod)).
amendments to this effect were adopted by the committee on the environment.
firstly as regards mining, the commission cannot agree to deleting the words "chemical and thermal" as proposed in amendment no 6. in this context we also reject amendment no 43 proposing to make references to the water framework and hazardous waste directives.
it is not meant to be mining legislation or waste legislation and the future directive on mining waste management should cover safety aspects of disposal facilities.
i promise that within the timespan of the sixth environmental action programme the commission will undertake to gather all the experience gained with the application of the present directive and present a new proposal for a more comprehensive review of seveso ii as necessary.
- the following reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0203/2002 by mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities and the rules for the dissemination of research results for the implementation of the framework programme of the european community 2002-2006 (com (2001) 822 - c5-0017/2002 - 2001/0202 (cod)); - a5-0205/2002 by mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the amended proposal for a council decision on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for the period 2002-2006 (com (2001) 823 - c5-0236/2002 - 2001/0327 (cns))
- since it is past midnight, i would like to inform our interpreters that the debate will continue for another 15 minutes.
behind the technical appearance of the issues (labelling, traceability) are hidden the essential political and democratic issues that are, in france, a particular resonance at the time when josé bové, leader of the peasant confederation, is imprisoned for his fight for a food respectful of the rights of producers, the health of the population and the quality of the environment.
their unilateralism is as much a factor in foreign policy as in the fight against the environment, for example on the subject of climate change, not to mention, of course, the policy of force in the main trade issues.
if you can understand the meaning of this revolt, then you will quickly find that our fishermen are even more concerned than your environmentalists in the chamber about the desire to practice sustainable fishing.
- i am a strong believer in the potential for developing biofuels from agricultural raw materials; one of the aspects of the multi-functionality of our agriculture is that it can produce food and energy; the energy sector is still in its infancy, with an annual output of 570,000 tonnes, and is expected to grow considerably in volume, energy efficiency and environmental performance in the coming years.
i supported the measures aimed at differentiated taxation; the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the environmental impact of fossil fuels, such as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the reduction of the use of fossil fuels.
biofuels, on the other hand, are a clean, renewable, indigenous, and completely greenhouse-neutral resource.
a development model based on the fundamentals of sustainable and renewable resources and potential should be rethought and re-established.
the amendments i tabled in the committee on the environment were intended to extend this procedure to all member states.
i would also draw your attention to the dangers that would result from the adoption of an environmental indicator for packaging, as proposed in the amendment to article 4 (3a) introduced by amendment no 16. such an additional indicator for packaging is not justified, as a standardisation tool already exists but needs to be implemented more by the industry.
finally, as regards reuse, this type of recovery should not be systematically encouraged, as the environmental impact of reusable packaging is not necessarily better than that of single-use packaging.
the solution to the problem we are concerned with is to subject this product to effective environmental requirements and to consider it in its entire life cycle.
- we are here today to talk once again about waste and to note that the 1994 directive has had its effects, even though the results vary from one country to another, from one region to another, from the urban environment to the rural environment.
i can therefore only support this approach because, in view of the difficulties encountered on the ground in the treatment of waste, and in particular packaging waste, it seems premature to want to undertake a more thorough revision of this text.
the only essential requirement of this parliament in this respect must be realism, because our aim is to make the treatment of packaging waste as easy as possible and to provide, even before it is placed on the market, for packaging that is as harmless as possible to our environment.
we also have to find out where to dispose of our waste.
beyond the problem of packaging waste, it is essential to carry out a thorough reform and to answer this simple question: what is waste?
the waste problem in europe is a crucial one: for the community institutions, for national governments, for local authorities, for businesses and for our fellow citizens, whose role is essential.
perhaps we should have a framework directive on waste.
the report is timely because of the world summit on sustainable development, which is taking place at this moment in johannesburg.
i would also like to draw your attention to the commission's communication in february of this year on a global partnership for sustainable development.
this is why it is essential to promote equitable access to land, water and biodiversity resources, as well as a policy of local support for small farms.
in addition, the pressure for the liberalization of services is endangering their public services, such as water, energy, communications, health and education.
we can certainly look at your proposals for the introduction of a 'carbon credit' which are in the right direction.
but the low level of this may limit its impact, just as the disappearance of non-food crops in the fallow may not be compensated by the orientation towards the energy outlet of part of scop production.
i believe, commissioner, that this is a matter of ensuring our long-term supply and also of promoting sustainable agriculture.
it is also a major environmental issue.
it should be remembered that the development of oleoprotein crops promotes biodiversity, improves soil structure, counters the trend towards cereal monoculture and reduces the use of inputs.
in the face of these challenges and in order to replace animal flour, the commission is proposing nothing but to resign ourselves to seeing a growing part of our consumption dependent on imports whose prices, production conditions and compliance with the social and environmental specifications we impose on our own farmers would not be controlled by us.
- the next item is the report (a5-0269/2002) by mr blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the establishment of a community framework for the classification of noise emissions from civil subsonic aircraft for the purpose of calculating noise charges (com (2001) 74 - c5-0001/2002 - 2001/0308 (cod)).
amendment no 4, which does not make it sufficiently clear that the concept of modulation of charges must apply both in the case of a revenue-neutral framework and when the revenue is used to finance measures to mitigate environmental effects.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
- each year, the european union produces more than 60 million tonnes of packaging waste.
the stabilization objective of the fifth action programme and the fact that waste prevention is a top priority of european environmental policy do not change much: the amount of packaging continues to increase in the european union.
with this growing mountain of waste, it is high time to develop an ambitious strategy.
prevention is a real priority in waste management.
it should even become the cornerstone of european environmental policy.
we have a real chance here of making progress in the area of integrated product policy and the thematic strategy of the sixth environmental action programme.
i will support this report, which also has the merit of emphasizing two central ideas of a successful environmental policy: the necessary cooperation of all and the fact that environmental impact must always guide our action in the future.
the development of oleoprotein crops would help to meet the need to develop diversified and sustainable agriculture, consumer demand for traced products and their rejection of gmos.
finally, these crops play an important role in the agricultural and environmental spheres.
unlike the sorcerer's apprentices who in the past supported islamist networks to destabilise their opponents, we call for a responsible and sustainable management of security issues; i am thinking in particular of strengthening civil conflict prevention and, where appropriate, civil crisis management.
- mr president, after supporting public access to environmental information in may 2000, we are now supporting public participation in environmental programmes.
in addition, some amendments approved by the committee on the environment are not acceptable as they stand.
the directive recognizes that non-governmental organizations working for the protection of the environment have an interest in this area, which considerably extends the scope of our activities to the detriment of public prerogatives.
the walls of the "bureaus" are gradually breaking down, also in environmental matters.
scientists all over the world are unanimous in telling us that global warming is irrefutably punishing our lifestyles and that greenhouse gas emissions are only exacerbating these disasters.
we must integrate the environment into all our projects, into all our policies, so that perhaps we can shine a little light of hope.
we have to move forward to try to stop this climate change.
that is why the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and the shadow rapporteurs meet regularly to make parliament's voice heard in the council, to ask to be involved in the negotiations and to ensure that the danish presidency respects the word given by the council and the spanish presidency.
however, it is necessary to extend the concept of crime and the resulting compensation to environmental crimes or crimes in general for which the owners of companies are responsible, who, in order to increase the profit of their shareholders, save money on measures to prevent accidents.
all this is very good, but unfortunately there is a drawback, because if progress has been made in the disposal of kitchen waste, it seems to me that the obligation imposed on the member states is partly delayed.
and finally, it is obliged to allow certain derogations which further complicate its provisions, for example for the feeding of animals with kitchen waste in germany and austria.
the commission's proposal is in fact different from the cartagena protocol of 29 january 2000 on the prevention of biotechnological risks; it takes too little account of the precautionary principle enshrined in the rio declaration on the environment and the debates taking place in europe on these issues.
we have just seen once again at the johannesburg conference on sustainable development in late august and early september that, in the absence of a firmly expressed political will, the particular interests of agribusiness and multinationals, as well as purely commercial logic, prevail over the general interest of the people.
is this not a way of promoting environmental orientations which are dealt with under another budget heading?
our cap and the budgets attached to it are designed to compensate for the social and environmental constraints we place on our farmers and to try to ensure that they have a standard of living comparable to that of the rest of the union's population.
finally, if we really want to reduce public budgets for agriculture, perhaps it is time to reopen the debate on community preference by defining a renewed and updated community preference which makes it possible to internalize, in agricultural prices on the community market, the additional costs imposed on our agriculture by our high requirements in the areas of food security, social security, the environment and animal welfare.
it is true that road transport causes a lot of congestion and pollution, but that is because there is simply no other form of transport than road transport.
the rapporteur, mr president, has already said that the main objective of any agreement between the acp countries and the european union should be to promote sustainable forms of development which help to reduce poverty and provide a basis for the integration of the acp countries into the world economy.
is it not urgent to devise a special and differentiated approach which can respond to the new challenges and which includes both long-term commercial, financial and technological measures aimed at building sustainable capacities in each of the areas where there is inequality between countries?
what is the likely impact of free trade areas on the social, economic and environmental situation of acp countries?
we are excluding education, health, water, energy and transport.
this measure will increase the quality of diesel on the market, with the result that there will be significant logistical problems, without any real environmental added value.
the aim of reducing the sulphur content of petrol and diesel is certainly commendable, but the significant logistical problems posed by the proposal do not seem to bring about any proven environmental improvement.
when the report was considered by the committee on the environment, neither the rapporteur nor the commission itself was able to give an opinion on the various cost-benefit aspects of such an initiative.
- we approved the resolution on the outcome of the johannesburg world summit on sustainable development, because it shows, and this is very positive, that european countries have a broadly shared perception of these issues, and that they show a high level of sensitivity.
on this basis, the european union and its member states can act and hopefully become the leading players in the world environment sector in the future.
although the actual results of johannesburg are not up to the task (because one can only be appalled by the scale of global environmental problems), the union has been able to play a stimulating role, for example in the launching of partnerships on water, sanitation and energy.
among the particular reservations i would like to highlight three: the main one concerns the over-emphasis on the role that the union has allowed the wto to play in arbitrating between trade and environmental rules; secondly, the gradual dismantling of agricultural export subsidies is a desirable objective, but certainly not that of all internal aid; and finally, parliamentarians have not been sufficiently involved in the preparatory coordination work.
- in 1992 the earth summit was held in rio de janeiro, and the question of sustainable development was raised.
i simply wish to emphasize the insufficient place given to research policy in the debate on sustainable development.
while the primary role of science is to measure the state of the environment and report back to policy makers and the public, it is expected to formulate solutions to environmental problems.
the latter are faced with a difficult equation to solve, namely the need to assume strong and rapid growth with all the damage that this can cause in social and environmental terms!
- far from drawing the lessons from the ecological and social crisis ravaging the planet, the johannesburg summit has given the measure of the irresponsibility of states.
there is an urgent need to refocus direct aids to promote sustainable agriculture.
the financing needs for access to clean water, energy, health and transport are enormous.
- the concept of sustainable development is based on a need: to respond to the sense of complexity and dependence that characterizes globalisation by solidarity with a concern for the future.
'terminological antidotes' are being brandished as a panacea; the concept of sustainable development is one of them.
in an environment discourse where the precautionary principle has become a policy and good governance a myth, this notion has a good chance of feeding on itself and justifying itself.
we therefore propose to return to the interpretation of the brundtland report, which defined sustainable development in terms of the direction to be given to action.
i think that then there would be no more problems: we would not waste our time and we would work under very good conditions.
i say this on behalf of our group: what we dream of is that in ten years, in fifteen years, i do not know how many years, we will achieve social and ecological harmonization throughout europe, from portugal to hungary, from poland to italy.
it also sends a clear signal to investors that algeria is committed to creating a constructive environment for international businesses.
what will be the assessment of the economic, social and environmental consequences?
but it is also clear that the trivialization of the concept of ivory, which culminated in the 2000 presidential elections, has only fuelled the climate of hatred and violence in the country, and accusations against neighboring countries of supporting the mutineers could be used to justify the persecution of the immigrant civilian population.
today, after the climate catastrophes in central europe and southern france, the imminent prospect of the establishment of an emergency fund with an annual budget of one billion euros may finally give a little more credibility to the notions of european solidarity and community of destiny.
first of all, it illustrates the fact that fishermen are the first to be affected and the first to be involved in setting the rules for sustainable fishing.
- mr president, the proposal for a directive to establish a system for the exchange of greenhouse gas emission allowances is an early application and a gradual learning within the community of the definitive system which will have to come into force after 2008, under the terms of the kyoto protocol.
the aim is to make the emitters of greenhouse gases pay the price for the invisible and unquantified damage they cause to the environment, and thus to the whole community.
since this infringement of a collective good is not automatically included in the prices, the idea is to create a market for pollution rights whose securities will be defined, quantified and sold by the public authorities.
of course, they will be reduced gradually, and then pollution will be reduced.
we can support these provisions, but we must also stress that the free allocation of allowances may not continue beyond 2008, because beyond learning, the objective must be to make the hidden costs of these emissions pay for themselves in full, and not just marginally at the time of transfer.
as regards our reservations, we would stress that the proposed system applies initially to carbon dioxide alone, but that it is desirable, in order to avoid distortions, to consider now how to extend it without too much delay to all greenhouse gases.
mr president, if we start from the twofold observation of the serious level of air pollution at present and its foreseeable evolution, on the one hand, the kyoto targets and the means envisaged to achieve them, on the other hand, if we also reject the bonuses given to those who are late, the accentuated and perpetuated domination of the rich countries over the poor countries, and above all the commodification of air, which is for me a universal resource, we can only be reserved with regard to the system of pollution quotas and their trade.
in this context, i can say that it has done a lot to improve the system by broadening the scope, making it mandatory, proposing complementarity with other green policies - public transport, renewable energy, taxation, research, energy efficiency.
the commission is therefore asked to carry out a regular assessment of the economic, social and environmental consequences of the implementation of the association agreement.
and this government, like its predecessors, is knowingly fostering a xenophobic and ethnic climate which makes life untenable for millions of migrant workers and peasants from neighbouring countries and those from the north.
of these 52 amendments, there are some 30 which were rejected in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, and many others which had already received a number of votes in the committee.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of december 2001 we voted on a report on the strategy and organisation for the energy development of the korean peninsula, in which we decided to participate in the development of civil nuclear power in korea.
that means that we must discuss it, that we must challenge this agreement, that we must stop funding the civil nuclear sector of north korea and, finally, that we must finance a non-nuclear energy production sector for north korea.
we want the union to adopt an economic policy in the face of the economic situation and for sustainable development, and although the commission is indeed the only executive body designed to develop the common interest, it does not yet have the culture and legitimacy to conduct an economic policy.
(laughter) finally, thanks to your politically incorrect intervention - as we have seen from the reactions on the right, from some on the right - i felt that there was an opportunity to have a real debate on the economic, social and ecological governance of europe.
moreover, philippe herzog is right when he says that the commission's responsibility for the economic, social and ecological governance of europe must be politically anchored in the convention.
when europe or member states make wrong choices about energy, we must say so.
in the forthcoming debate which you have launched and which we wish to conduct, we must consider the correct articulation of the criteria and, in particular, the question of debt sustainability.
i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
– mr president, before briefly introducing the three commission proposals, i would like to thank and congratulate the two rapporteurs, mrs müller and mrs grossetête, as well as the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for all the work and effort they have put into finalising these three reports.
they play to the benefit of the sustainability of our european health systems.
a compromise amendment, adopted by the committee on the environment, makes this measure consistent with national arrangements.
the environment committee overwhelmingly rejected the commission's proposal as being too ambiguous.
the committee on the environment has taken this into account by voting massively against any direct advertising for prescription medicines, while at the same time increasing the transparency of the marketing authorization procedures.
we welcome the adoption in the committee on the environment of the amendments on the impact of medicines on the environment.
the majority of the members of the committee on the environment have therefore adopted amendments which are not in line with the commission's position, and i particularly welcome the fact that the reports oppose advertising for medicines.
i welcome the fact that the amendments proposed by the committee on budgets for heading 1 clearly reflect our desire to make the common agricultural policy more equitable, fair and sustainable and to strengthen its rural development component.
the untiring energy of the martyrs and the heroes of 1956, the remembrance of the people, have maintained this faith and strength.
the urgency is also in preserving water and biodiversity as public goods.
the environment will therefore be respected so that its degradation does not lead to the degradation of arable land, in particular in relation to intensive crops, the intensive use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides, and the pollution of agricultural products by gmos.
the ambition and the need to preserve the planet's biodiversity require the adoption of rigorous and voluntary decisions which must leave no room for traffickers of any kind, while allowing local populations to exploit their natural resources, including wildlife, in a sustainable way, even if this can sometimes be close to the square of the circle.
- ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to begin my speech on the transeuropean energy networks by emphasizing once again that energy is not a commodity like any other and that the market cannot be its main regulatory element.
the security of energy supplies is a condition for the political independence of our countries and of europe.
this security requires diversification of energy sources and it implies heavy investments in the long term, if not in the very long term.
energy is also an important element of spatial planning and is fully integrated into the field of public services in the noblest sense of the term.
i would add that we must always bear in mind, when we talk about energy and transport networks, that while there is new infrastructure to be created, there is also existing infrastructure to be re-developed to make better use of it.
finally, we must have - and i say this emphatically - an obsession with the environment in all its dimensions: visual dimension, pollution, depletion of resources, not to mention the issue of waste.
the energy transmission networks must be improved and completed and the less profitable networks must be supported where they are useful, by means of studies and investment.
the internal energy market is necessary, but more than deregulation, its implementation requires investment throughout the union, especially in the less accessible and less dense regions.
but we must not forget that energy is needed to put in these networks, and therefore a number of conditions must be met.
finally, i would like to confirm the importance for us of renewable energy, of research in this field and of the public investment effort required for their development.
i must confess that i do not quite understand the link some people want to make between this objective of developing renewable energy and a liberal logic which often leads to the search for the lowest cost in the short term, without concern for the consequences in the medium and long term.
in conclusion, while i criticise the liberal principles which i consider to be dangerous for europe's energy independence and for small consumers, not to mention the less favoured regions, i think that the commission's guidelines on transeuropean networks are going in the right direction and i should like to thank you for that, madam commissioner.
- mr president, who would be against the establishment and maintenance of energy infrastructure and the integration of the energy networks of the countries which are to join the european union?
the report makes it quite clear that the aim is to make the construction and maintenance of energy infrastructure subject to the laws of the market.
to create a more open and competitive internal energy market, public funds to private investors will increase from 10% to 20% of the amount of investment.
moreover, the increased interconnection of gas and electricity networks is not intended to rationalise the distribution of energy throughout the union, but rather to open up the gas and electricity market to competition.
yes, the individual states or the european community must be able to finance a transport network in the energy sectors, which is up to the standards of the 21st century, whose management criteria are not profitability or the pursuit of profit for a few but the satisfaction of the energy needs of all and equal access for all.
- mr president, commissioner, while there is every reason to welcome this question and the resolution tabled by mrs jackson on the union's position at the new delhi conference on climate change, its late presentation leaves us in doubt about its own ambition.
indeed, ladies and gentlemen, how can we interpret this debate which is taking place after the opening of the conference, if not as a sign of political and psychological immaturity in the face of the reality of the global challenges that the phenomena of climate change are bringing about?
it is a question of whether the latest unep report, revealing an abyss of 150 billion dollars a year in environmental damage, has escaped the eyes of some european visionaries.
in new delhi, international action on the climate emergency will have to be stepped up a little more.
the european union must continue to play a leading role in the fight against climate change.
first, carbon sinks which distort environmental accounting: scientific rigor and objectivity disqualify this easy solution, this expedient.
secondly, the explosion of air traffic and its impact on the increase in greenhouse gas emissions must be integrated into the process.
thirdly, the eighth conference of the parties must not fail to denounce nuclear energy, which is trying to become one of the renewable energies, whereas nuclear energy is limited and even obsolete.
nothing can impose itself on us and our discussions more than the stakes of climate change.
nothing is more fundamental in politics than the very foundation of all politics: the sustainability and viability of our planet itself.
commissioner, first of all, on nuclear energy.
you know that at the moment there are no solutions in waste management, that there are no techniques today to reduce the radioactivity of nuclear waste.
and yet, in 1974, when france launched its great nuclear energy project, it was announced to anyone who would listen that thirty years later these waste problems would be solved.
in the end, you want to make it appear that with these decisions you will secure nuclear energy in europe.
finally, commissioner, how do you justify the introduction of new financial aid for nuclear energy - when, for example, the french citizen has already paid a lot for nuclear energy - and when no solution has yet been found for waste management, even though we know how difficult it is to find some means for renewable energy.
the medium-term objective must be very ambitious: securing employment and training for all throughout the enlarged europe, consolidating public services worthy of the name, genuine sustainable development at the level of the 25 and, therefore, the fight against social and fiscal dumping.
secondly, to define the main guidelines for its implementation by taking better account of the concerns expressed by european citizens on the environment, health protection, food quality, rural development and animal welfare, while responding to farmers' demands for remuneration for their work and simplification in the implementation of the agricultural policy, so that young farmers are encouraged to settle down.
the third guideline concerns the need for producers receiving community aid, both those under the first and those under the second pillar, to strictly respect the principles laid down in the european directives on environmental protection and animal welfare.
this is a major question which is still being asked, because no one can deny that food security, sustainable development and territorial balance are still imperative issues which must be addressed without delay.
i would also like to draw your attention, commissioner, to the need for qualified external protection and internal regulation of the markets, so that the efforts made by farmers to protect the environment, labour and the quality of their products are properly rewarded.
it is clear that when the council talks about rural development or sustainable development, it is only talking about words.
how can we then continue to make environmental, spatial and social considerations a precondition?
can we really have a good debate, and have the means to be representative at the wto as from 2003, if we cannot prove, for example to the developing countries, that what europe is developing is really a model of multifunctionality which respects both people and the environment, and not a form of disguised trade?
to be sustainable and to play its part in environmental management and landscape conservation, agriculture must first and foremost be offered economic and social prospects.
we have opted for a diversified agriculture and a production model that emphasises quality and environmental protection.
they cannot address all the issues of the rural world: the environment, rural infrastructure, the maintenance of public services, land use planning, or all the demands of society, animal welfare and consumer health.
it needs remunerative prices which must also take into account the cost of environmental, social, quality and safety requirements, which are those of our fellow citizens.
this asymmetry legitimizes the protection of our internal market against social or environmental dumping on the world market.
- the tragic events of 11 september 2001 once again provide an opportunity to divert attention from the question of eschelon: even though the system was demonstrating its incredible inefficiency in the only area that could justify its sustainability - security and the fight against terrorism - a certain confusion of the genders leads the commission and the council to pretend that the solutions to the problems are essentially technical and must be found in the framework of the cfsp.
the challenge now is to transform the economy in an ecologically and socially equitable way and to orient it towards sustainable development.
deadline for tabling reports - see minutes
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - report (a5-0380/2002) by mr stevenson, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the communication from the commission on the reform of the common fisheries policy (implementation schedule) (com (2002) 181 - c5-0330/2002 - 2002/2174 (cos)) - report (a5-0360/2002) by mr souchet, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the communication from the commission setting out a community action plan for the integration of environmental protection requirements into the common fisheries policy (com (2002) 1862) (c5-0331/2002 - 2002/2175 (cos))
the rapporteur.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we approach the decisive dates for the future of the cfp, with the redefinition of its objectives and procedures, it seems to me important that our parliament should be able to affirm forcefully the five principles which have served as the guiding principle of my report and which your committee on fisheries has wanted to emphasize with a view to fully integrating the requirements of environmental protection into the new common fisheries policy.
fisheries and maritime professionals are the first to be concerned by the protection of the marine environment and the first to be aware of the need to safeguard it.
the fifth principle states that public aid for fleet modernisation, which aims to improve working conditions, safety on board, energy savings and product quality, is perfectly compatible with the protection of the marine environment.
i hope that by voting massively in favour of this report, parliament will make it clear to everyone that the protection of the marine environment must be done with the fishermen and not against them.
that is why, instead of being accusatory, instead of talking incessantly about declining activity and palliative policy, your committee on fisheries has preferred to send a message of confidence and hope to the professionals to strengthen their growing respect for the quality of the marine environment, which is one of the important objectives that the new common fisheries policy must pursue.
in any case, we are trying to balance these two aspects better than you suggest, which is the right definition of sustainable development.
it is a question of sustainability, but it is also a question of the competitiveness of our sector.
it is about decent living conditions for all those involved in fishing, and it is also about taking environmental concerns into account and, above all, about new forms of management of fishery resources.
without advocating waste - far be it from me to advocate spending without consideration - our governments and ourselves must be generous and visionary.
this europe is capable, if it has the strength and the courage, of putting the human person back at the heart of the planet, of integrating the social and environmental dimension into all its decisions.
the project of sustainable and supportive development must be affirmed as the union's objective.
europe will be what we make it: either a middle power, caught up in the selfishness of nations which have granted the enlargement countries only 25 billion euros when the marshall plan granted 97 billion, or a union promoting its political, social and environmental values.
the council expressed the wish to formulate an ambitious, long-term and integrated strategy towards each of these new neighbours with a view to promoting democracy and economic reform, sustainable development and trade, and to promoting stability and prosperity, etc., across the new eu frontier.
successful enlargement means including the environmental dimension and the objective of public health and consumer protection in all other policies, as well as taking account - as you yourself have said - of human resources and also providing an effort at innovation.
this is the case for civil protection, food security, industry, transport, energy and land use planning, so as to take account of all aspects of public health and the environment.
the third point, 'building a sustainable and supportive economy', is that if we want to avoid the deterioration of the economic environment having a negative impact on employment, it would be desirable for the commission to be able to make proposals for a more flexible labour market, which is a necessary condition for increasing employment opportunities.
in the context of the discussions on the post-doha era, we ask the commission how it hopes to integrate the commitment of europe not as a group of 15 but as a group of 25. finally, the transatlantic dialogue must be strengthened in the spirit of sustainable and supportive development and, of course, the kyoto commitments must be respected.
we welcome the proposal to propose seven thematic strategies as set out in the sixth environmental action programme, as well as proposals for an integrated product policy and a new chemicals strategy.
the commission, on the contrary, in accordance with the european councils of barcelona and lisbon, is pursuing and accelerating the process of liberalization and deregulation leading to privatization: energy, transport, postal services, etc.
you have made industrial and banking secrecy, business secrecy, the supreme law precisely to cover with a modest veil the thousand and one embezzlements, bribes, scams and other schemes, which allow to maximize profit and even to conceal the waste that your economic system represents for society.
- the commission's proposal to implement a multiannual programme of energy actions for the years 2003 to 2006 aims to strengthen community support in energy fields which contribute to sustainable development.
it will be organised around four themes: improving energy efficiency and demand management, particularly in the building and industrial sectors (save); promoting new and renewable energy for centralised and decentralised production and its integration into the urban environment (alterner); supporting initiatives on the energy aspects of transport, fuel diversification and the promotion of fuels of renewable origin, including energy efficiency in transport (steer); finally, support for initiatives to promote renewable energy and energy efficiency in countries through the development of the field (coopener).
energy is a major concern in the union and i am pleased to see all these actions being brought together in one programme.
- this report states that it is concerned with fisheries in three aspects: environmental, social and economic, in the european union but also in its relations with countries, especially those of the third world.
we voted on the points in the report which seemed to us to be in the interests of small fishermen or consumers or in the interests of protecting the marine environment, but we abstained on the whole report.
- the commission, under the guise of protecting the environment, is proposing to reduce the fishing fleet and in fact to favour the most powerful gear at the expense of the others, and thus to reduce the number of small fishermen.
this would be the only way to truly respect both the environment and the workers of the sea.
we therefore vote in favour of certain points in the report which would be in the interests of fishermen and the environment, but we abstain on the whole of the text.
as a result, the enclave is and may remain a favourable ground for all kinds of trafficking and a climate of revolt among the population.
mr president, it is a singularly reductive view of the many and multifaceted relations which we must develop very actively with russia in a whole series of strategic areas, from the fight against terrorism to the situation in the middle east, from energy to space, to want to index the course of the successive modalities in which the russian government deals with the difficult chechen question.
biotechnology represents a new and considerable dimension of the economy of tomorrow, whether we consider it in its agricultural, nutritional, environmental and, of course, medical and therapeutic aspects.
they can only grow and flourish in a strictly regulated environment which unceasingly emphasises the principles of public health, prevention, precaution and respect for life and human dignity.
three areas in particular are being addressed: infrastructure, especially in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications; the environment, because the investment needs are enormous to comply with community standards; and foreign direct investment, because it is a particularly powerful lever in the catching-up process.
another priority is the protection and improvement of the environment, with the aim of devoting between a quarter and a third of our total lending each year to environmental projects.
for example, aid for research, the environment, training and employment is legitimate and often desirable.
competition is essential for the sustainability and efficiency of the internal market.
but there are personal and family tragedies, and inestimable losses for the european and international communities, perpetrated by each illegal tanker sinking, destroying the socioeconomic fabric of the coasts for years and killing off ecosystems, marine biodiversity, for centuries!
more than a solidarity fund, i am calling for the creation of a european bank for the prevention and restoration of environmental damage, which should be permanent and upstream of ecological trauma.
certainly the supporters of liberalism who see in this country only an additional space for the market, competition and privatization, especially in the fields of energy, research and transport.
according to the sustainable development planning institute in islamabad, 6.8 million pakistanis fell below the poverty line in the last three years of the musharraf regime.
in contrast to such a policy, which is at least as stupid as the stability pact, we are in favour of structural policies, planned at european level, for example in the field of transport and energy.
it seems to us that the relevant part of the treaty (articles 87 to 89) should now be updated to define more clearly the acceptable public aids, for example for employment, the environment or compensation for public service obligations.
but the ecological disaster is even worse, for it cannot be repaired by subsidies.
brittany is suffering and will suffer for a long time in terms of its biodiversity and ecological balance, which are essential for the maintenance of fisheries resources and the preservation of species.
- we are once again reporting the sinking of a 26 year old garbage ship, last inspected in 1999, which belonged to a liberian company, flew the flag of the bahamas, was operated by a greek company, chartered by the swiss subsidiary (crown) of a russian conglomerate (alfa group) having obtained a certificate of seaworthiness from the us bureau of navigation... we are tired of the opacity, impunity and complacency in shipping that harm seafarers, the environment and coastal communities.
- the order calls for the joint debate of the following three reports: - report (a5-0392/2002) by mr jové peres, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fishery resources under the common fisheries policy (com (2002) 185 - c5-0313/2002 - 2002/0114 (cns)) - report (a5-0396/2002) by mr varela suanzes-carpegna, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2792/1999 laying down the terms and conditions for community structural assistance in the fisheries sector (com (2002) 187 - c5-0314/2002 - 2002/0116 (cns)) - report (a5-0393/2002) by mr varela suanzes-carpegna, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of a community emergency measure for the scrapping of fishing vessels (com (2002) 190 - c5-0315/2002 - 2002/0115 (cns)) the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the term 'commercial'.
the european parliament must confirm its commitment to maintaining this aid and not endorse the commission's proposals to abolish it under the pretext of preserving the marine environment.
it is with modern and properly equipped vessels, engaged in selective and controlled fishing, that we will contribute to the sustainable management of resources and the fight against fraud.
first, when ifop subsidies are used to build larger and larger and more powerful vessels, the states encourage a naturally larger and less selective predation to the detriment of small businesses concerned with maintaining a powerful tool maintained in good condition and in particular with good safety conditions, while being less aggressive to the marine environment.
secondly, there are no reliable statistical and comparative analytical tools, especially for social cohesion and sustainable development.
how can the commission want to establish sustainable fishing and at the same time actually encourage it by excluding it from its proposal, when it is particularly destructive to ecosystems?
this is, according to the unilateral approach of the commission on sustainable development, the best way to ensure that fish stocks are replenished.
however, an approach that refers to sustainable development must not only ensure the conservation of stocks but also the possible continuation of fishing activity.
- this report, after many others in recent months and still today, raises serious questions about the 'sustainable development' of fisheries, the deterioration of fish stocks and the prohibition of fishing for certain species in community waters, catch quotas or the minimum size of fish that fishermen should respect to preserve juveniles, fish stocks, etc.
this licence, which is renewable every six months, is accompanied (article 12) by authorization for its holder to access the labour market, vocational training and education.
the granting of a six-month, renewable temporary residence permit to illegal immigrants who would help the authorities of the member states to combat illegal immigration networks is totally unsatisfactory.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of animals in the production of foodstuffs.
the report adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy provides the possibility of adding further products to the current positive list if the safety of these products can be proven.
the draft report which mrs breyer presented to us in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection last september was particularly disappointing to me.
paragraph 14 does not add anything to the report: 'food manufacturers should have a duty to avoid risks to workers, human health and the environment', says our green colleague.
and i don't see how longer shelf life compromises the sustainable development goal that we all seek.
the report deals with the subject of research and technological development in europe and explains that this would be good for citizens, women, researchers, europe, competition with the united states and japan, sustainable development, the third world, the environment, sustainable development.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, such as the new asbestos, but that it is also able to take account of the new risks posed by certain products, by new forms of production, by genetic manipulation and by the unlimited creation of new magnetic fields (to name just a few well-known examples).
- the report (a5-0438/2002) by mr florenz, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint draft directives of the european parliament and of the council on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) approved by the conciliation committee (pe-cons 3663/2002 - 5-0486/2002 - 2000/0158 (cod)); 2. the restriction of the use of certain dangerous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (pe-cons 3662/2002 - c5-0487/2002 - 2000/0159 (cod)).
- we voted for this text because of the few positive aspects it contains, in particular those aimed at limiting the presence of certain dangerous substances in electrical and electronic equipment and those requiring manufacturers to finance the disposal of waste.
- the aim of this report is to facilitate public access to environmental information.
however, while explaining the need to 'ensure that environmental information is disseminated as widely as possible to the public', the report half closes the door it has just opened by assuring that 'member states may reject a request for environmental information in certain cases', i.e.
furthermore - and far beyond the limits of the report itself - what is the point of claiming transparency in this area, when the big companies which constitute the main threat to the environment can still take refuge behind commercial or business secrecy?
on the one hand, it is the protection of coastal waters against ships in transit which pose a threat to the marine environment, as was the case with the prestige.
however, a committee of inquiry will not do anything, because we already have the legislative package and a committee would waste our time.
the ecological disaster is not going to be fixed by subsidies.
the environment is preserved.
energy, transport, a new stage in the postal sector: the argument always repeated is that liberalisation would be the solution for modernising these services.
despite several requests from the european parliament, this assessment, in terms of the consequences for safety, the environment, quality and social matters, has still not been carried out.
i have already heard better from the commission, which was beginning to doubt the ability of competition law to make possible the achievement of all social and environmental objectives.
and i think that ignoring the doubts which are being expressed today about the continuity and sustainability of these services, particularly because they have been called into question by disasters, and also because we are currently seeing deterioration in a number of public services, would be a serious danger to the future of europe and to the decision which its citizens will have to take on the future constitution.
at this rate, when the framework directive is adopted, all the sectoral directives on energy, postal services and transport will have been adopted, the timetables for liberalisation will have been set and there will therefore be little left to regulate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is compatible with the common market.
the restoration of the shipper's responsibility and the involvement of the flag state are probably two of the most promising ways of preserving the marine environment.
it would therefore be premature to decide now on the way in which mountain areas can be taken into account in the framework of regional policy in the forthcoming programming period 2007-13. the commission proposal, which is part of the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy, focuses on strengthening agri-environmental measures, which are often of benefit to mountain regions.
these are mostly exceptional areas, which must therefore be managed in a specific way, through a comprehensive policy of sustainable mountain development.
these are difficult territories because of their geography and climate.
the commission has put in place a number of programmes which we are all familiar with: leader, interreg... it would probably be necessary to simplify the aid, because these are specific areas, to make it more flexible so that it is better adapted to the terrain and takes account of the specific features of the land, the need to protect the environment and the existence of many specific methods of managing these areas, for example, pastoralism.
we must promote sustainable tourism, which values the richness of the mountain, but refuses to turn the mountain into a concrete recreation area - something which has unfortunately been seen a lot, among others, in the alpine massif.
we must also give priority to renewable energy, hydraulics and wood, and strengthen research on the prevention of natural and material hazards.
in conclusion, sustainable mountain development cannot be achieved without the involvement of all partners.
economic and financial support and fiscal facilities of a structural and sustainable nature should also be put in place.
i would also like to stress the importance of the environmental policy pursued by the european union.
the difficulty of access, the harshness of the climate and the slope are all factors which must also be taken into account.
the dynamisation of the mountain economy must take account of the fact that it is in a fragile environment which must be both preserved and developed.
it is urgent to condemn these real crimes against the common cultural heritage of humanity, to demand respect for the hague and geneva conventions on the protection of property and persons and to ask the commission to intervene before the un security council to obtain the dispatch of an intervention force to protect the palestinian people, their cultural and historical heritage and their environment.