all my energy, all my commitment and all my enthusiasm would be channelled into ensuring that this is a parliament of which we can be proud.
the liberalising agenda has become bogged down by new social and environmental targets.
the freeing up of energy markets and postal services is way behind schedule.
energy, however, is not like other goods or services.
it has other facets: basic social need and environmental impact.
we need to ensure that indigenous energy sources can play a major role in energy supply.
renewable energies in particular need legal protection and promotion.
the greatest contribution to security of supply is intelligent use of energy, one of the regulatory requirements of wise liberalisation.
please ensure that energy efficiency becomes a key national indicator at barcelona.
i look forward to your assurance that liberalisation of energy will take place in a very strictly regulated framework which protects the environment and takes heed of social consequences, some of which are very serious.
the lisbon policy mix of mutually supportive economic reform, full employment, social cohesion and sustainable development needs to be reinforced through concrete measures that increase the potential for growth and job creation.
we also need further action to address demographic change through an integrated approach to safeguard sustainable and universal pensions.
i remember, as the member of a local authority, seeing a council waste time, effort and money trying to unscramble a valuable school meals contract that proved to be totally unsatisfactory.
the goals pursued by public authorities are justifiably, in the public interest, a mixture that includes environmental and social goals.
it is a question which can also be addressed to mr zappalà, who says that we should only take economic conditions into account, not, for example, environmental or social ones.
so we turn the thing round: we ask who shall decide if the streets of helsinki or the streets of edinburgh need environmentally friendly and sustainable buses?
in this perspective i want to look at the balance between economic, environmental and social issues.
it complies with all the environmental rules in united kingdom law.
it is not part of public contract to require the bus manufacturers to do an environmental appraisal for helsinki before they then submit the contract.
it is a sign of environmental progress and achievement that air quality now is better than it has been for centuries.
but there is more yet to be done, and in its clean air for europe programme the commission has identified particulates and ozone as two priorities for action.
ozone pollution contributes to the premature death of tens of thousands of people each year; it causes breathing difficulties, coughs, headaches and eye irritation.
we have re-emphasised our wish to see long-term reductions in ozone levels achieved by 2020 in line with the national emissions ceilings directive proposals.
even so, the european environmental bureau has criticised us, asking: "why do we need a directive at all if the 2010 targets are not fully binding?"
but this misunderstands the nature of ozone pollution.
while peak exceedances are falling across europe, the average level is continuing to rise, almost certainly as a result of pollution generated far from our shores.
mr president, i hope we can get agreement on the sixth environmental action programme, preferably without going into conciliation.
the amendments tabled by the committee and the rapporteur do not really add up to anything of substance and, where they do, the results would probably be to damage the chances of success of the environmental action programme.
do we need a sixth environmental action programme?
the best part of the environmental action programme for me is the concentration on better implementation.
in the field of chemicals policy, the field of preserving biodiversity, climate change, transport and the protection of air and water quality, there are clear and worthwhile proposals that could be built upon in the conciliation process.
however, the setting at the moment of any kind of european-wide environmental taxes must be better thought out.
we must now as a parliament unite and tomorrow morning take the next step into conciliation, where we are going to have to work together with a view to achieving a common viewpoint to the way in which we are going to protect the environment of our common european home and preserve it for future generations.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
we also need more joined-up thinking, more explicit connections between the ipp project, the sixth environmental action programme and the strategy for sustainable development.
to summarise a number of the other concerns raised by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, we believe that the strategy tends to rely too heavily on voluntary agreements.
environmental issues are important, but they have no bearing on the ability to drive a truck.
the cfp has not yet achieved what it set out to achieve, and that is a sustainable fisheries sector.
the cornerstone of the new cfp has to be environmental and economic sustainability.
sustainability means that we have to take the environmental dimension of fisheries management seriously.
development considerations, poverty reduction and environmental impact are key considerations.
in endorsing a move to multiannual and multi-species quotas, it promotes an approach to fisheries management that is better for the industry and the environment alike.
it also addresses other issues of environmental concern, such as shark finning and the bycatch of citations.
it is imperative that the promotion of sustainable fisheries and the needs of fisheries-dependent communities are kept to the fore.
these plans seek to restore stocks of cod and hake to sustainable levels.
global warming and the linked heating of our oceans are also considerations.
we should never forget the key link between the environmental decisions that we make in this house and the consequences that these have for the sustainability of our seas.
again, yesterday, there was a seminar here in strasbourg organised by the intergroup on sustainable development, which heard all sides of the debate for and against industrial fishing.
the likelihood is that the approach will be not to name specific types of physical collateral that will be acceptable, but to set eligibility criteria that seek to ensure a certain sustainable value of the collateral in the event of borrower default.
there are valid environmental and road safety reasons to transport goods – if they must be transported by road – at night.
this directive, part of a package of measures aimed at making our use of energy more intelligent, should disseminate the existing good practice of some member states right across the eu, and will also be very important in improving the situation in applicant countries where energy-efficient buildings could do much to help their economies as well as protecting the environment.
we look forward to more directives as promised by the commissioner in this important area of energy efficiency, of energy intelligence.
mr president, i have an interest to declare: i chair the energy efficiency advice centre which operates in the northern half of the region that i represent.
improving the energy performance of buildings, however it is defined, is the most difficult issue that i have ever had to grapple with.
are we trying to save energy?
are we trying to reduce co2 emissions, or are we trying to reduce energy consumption?
it is energy consumption that we should be focusing on.
just as his environmental policies lead to global warming, so his diplomatic and military policies are pushing the world towards a new cold war.
we need to show a great deal of energy and commitment.
then there is the question of animal waste to herbivores.
i would simply say that i am in that party in this house that believes, with mr olsson, that we should outlaw the feeding of animal waste of any form to ruminant animals.
david martin reproached us for not spending more time in the chamber, but one of the problems is the amount of time we waste getting to this place.
in addition, this directive is also meant to improve the environment and congestion and again i would refute that claim.
if this directive comes into play i believe that congestion and environmental pollution will increase.
finally, it is important to emphasise the importance of fifg funding for fishing communities, particularly in the renewal of the fleet for safety reasons in a sector that clearly operates in a hostile environment.
it then suffered 32 years of war during which its economy and its environment were ruined and its people dispersed.
the thrust behind our question – which is tabled at a timely point in the run-up to the barcelona summit – is that the need across the european union to deliver access to information society services and to encourage the climate in which new services will develop has to be at the foundation of the lisbon goal to deliver the most competitive knowledge-driven economy in the world.
i am pleased to have been a member of the teams in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, which have worked very hard with the commission to push through directives on matters such as the unbundling of the local loop and the whole of the electronics communications package.
costs for both exports and imports are increasing, as are road congestion and pollution.
all of these things help to promote growth and jobs, provided they are consistent with the growth and stability pact, and clearly we need to be shifting the tax burden away from things we want more, like jobs, and onto things that we want less of, like pollution.
if the european union is to be a star pupil, we need progress on liberalisation of energy and gas markets, on implementation of the financial services action plan, on agreement of a public procurement framework.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, i want to concentrate on environmental issues in the context of barcelona.
the first thing is to stress the importance which the committee on the environment, and i hope the european parliament, places on the addition of an environmental dimension to the lisbon process of annual assessment of economic growth and social cohesion.
indeed, we were really rather surprised in the committee on the environment that the environmental pillar of sustainable development should not be considered of equal importance to the social and economic pillars.
i would like to take this opportunity of expressing thanks on behalf of myself and my colleagues to the european environment agency for the work that it has done in relation to the environmental indicators.
the director of the environment agency, mr beltrán, will be retiring soon and we are very grateful for the work that he has done.
in the view of the environment committee, it is very important that we link their production to clear targets and timetables for the work of the commission and of the parliament.
i would make a domestic point to my colleagues here, namely that we really address the issue of sustainable development better in this parliament.
it is essential to continue to see that environmental considerations are taken into account in other policies.
this is something which environment commissioner, mrs wallström, has always been very keen on.
one policy which illustrates the desperate need for environmental considerations to be taken into account within it is fisheries.
we have a number of fishing ports and we are currently facing the consequences of a desperate failure to take environmental considerations into account when operating the common fisheries policy.
that is a very good example of non-sustainable development and the parliament ought to get involved in doing something about it.
sustainable development is going to be very important in the context of enlargement.
that means that they will want more roads, more cars, more transport emissions and so on.
more damage to the environment will probably be done and we have to find a way, without being culturally imperialist about it, to ensure that rapid economic development in the countries of eastern and central europe does not damage the environment, particularly the natural environment, in the new member states.
that document for rio contains some very good points, especially the emphasis on providing incentives for environmentally and socially sustainable trade.
one thing i would highlight from the position of the environment committee is the need for the european union to sort itself out when it comes to addressing the issue of genetically modified production in the countries of the third world.
is that going to be a sustainable message to give them when they want to make a living for themselves?
in this instance, the spanish government has submitted an environmental impact assessment in relation to the plan and the european commission is considering it.
too often, initiatives are launched without the full impact on business, on the environment, but also on consumers and administrations, first being fully examined.
gothenburg added the environment and the promise of spring summits, which barcelona is, as sustainability summits.
in my group's view, all summits should be about sustainability, but i would settle for at least one a year as a start because the environment underpins our economic development, and if you do not have sustainability, you can kiss goodbye to the stability pact.
mr bullmann's original report gave us a comprehensive reminder of a number of issues concerning employment, social cohesion and the importance of sustainability, but i think we saw considerable tension introduced with that report, with certain emac resolutions; not least, paragraph 25 and its push for liberalisation with no qualitative evaluation on the social and environmental side whatsoever, and paragraph 36, which tells us that the european union did a very good job at doha in our push for the liberalisation of world trade as the catalyst for international growth.
we have to get away from this idea that sustainable growth somehow means 3% year after year, if that is going to eat up our finite resources and pollute our environment.
we have to decide as a european union what we mean by sustainable economic growth and it is not what we are voting about here.
firstly, the liberalisation of the energy market, secondly the european research area and the flanking measures which need to accompany the sixth framework programme, and thirdly, entrepreneurship.
the european parliament's committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has voted on the liberalisation directives for gas and electricity and we have reached the conclusion that if liberalisation takes place without paying attention to the environmental, consumer and social consequences, you are embarking on a dangerous journey.
we would ask, for example, that energy efficiency be used as an indicator in the lisbon and barcelona processes.
if a member state is so inept that it does not use energy intelligently, it will never be competitive.
mr president, the parliament's committees on which i sit have in the last few days made important progress with legislation on both financial services and energy market liberalisation.
it is a pleasure once again at second reading, to be supporting this very important measure on behalf of my group and also to pay tribute to colette flesch for the energy and time that she has put in, particularly in handling very astutely the negotiations with the council and the commission over the last few weeks, so that we quite rightly have a compromise deal which i have signed up to on behalf of my group, and which we urge your colleagues to support tomorrow.
these include air pollution, noise, lack of physical movement and others.
to take just one of these, transport is now the dominant source of air pollution in urban areas and despite the past decade's improvements in air quality in europe, close to 90% of the urban population is still exposed to excess ambient levels of particulate matter, no2, benzene and ozone.
the significance of this was demonstrated by a recent study that found that air pollution now causes a higher mortality rate than road accidents.
their overwhelming conclusion was: "the main gap seems to lie in the lack of an overarching integration strategy which would bring together and use the synergies of policies and legislations relevant to transport, environment and health."
these analyses could be very helpfully integrated with strategic environmental assessments.
we asked a question of one of the professors at the cultural institute in cracow: is there a distinctive european culture the reply summed it up neatly: he said he often visited america, and clearly we share a western culture with the united states, but nonetheless when he went there was something missing and that was the historic environment.
so i endorse mr graça moura's comment that it was regrettable that the historic environment was not included in the forum on cultural cooperation last year.
we must never neglect the historic environment in all our countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
and yet all this has not come without a cost, because criminals have organised themselves into global networks; humankind's damage to our natural environment threatens the future viability of life on our planet; and powerlessness and alienation are restricting opportunities for far too many to develop their own abilities and to improve the lot of themselves and their families.
that we have not yet learned to use it properly, however, is shown by financial crises, by environmental degradation and by the continued spread of preventable disease.
it involves the self-confidence to engage with the world economic forum, the world social forum and others and the self-confidence to say to our friends in the united states that their legitimate sense of vulnerability after 11 september should not lead them in a unilateralist direction – whether in matters relating to military or economic security, the environment or fighting crime.
on 27 february the commission adopted its priorities and its annual strategic plan for 2003. we have agreed on three priorities: firstly, preparation for enlargement; secondly, measures to strengthen stability and security in the european union and beyond; and thirdly, the priority of promoting sustainable economic development.
instead of getting into a heated debate about whether or not to give the new member states direct payments, would we not do better to concentrate our energies on reforming the common agricultural policy by encouraging integrated rural development schemes and sound environmental working practices suitable not only for the existing member states but for our applicant countries too?
i have to regret that one rapporteur has chosen to introduce too much detail in amendments and tried to over-elaborate some of the measures, for example, the question of the detail demanded on energy bills.
finally, i would like to commend the proposed amendments on establishing a committee of european energy regulators so as to improve cooperation and coordination in implementing the regulation on cross-border trading.
until that situation is reached, the idea of an internal market in energy is a political mirage.
by trying to bring in issues such as energy efficiency, renewable energy and social issues we complicate the matter further, these are better left for other types of legislation.
the press suggests that barcelona will determine whether energy liberalisation takes place at all or not, and yet i do not see mr blair, mr aznar or other prime ministers here.
this is an important point: the liberalisation of the energy sector, one of the last components of the single market yet to be subject to single-market disciplines, is a legislative process.
it is essential, therefore, that at first reading we establish the principles of the legislation so that at second reading we can indeed push through a proper liberalising energy package.
you need reliability and no discrimination; you need help, particularly at domestic level, for energy efficiency measures; and you need strong emphasis on public service obligations.
we have amendments on subjects such as renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, and combined heat and power.
however, if we are to improve congestion and noise pollution for the future, i suggest that member states and local authorities take responsibility for proper land use planning and think carefully before using the aviation industry as a scapegoat for their failures.
finally, having read through the additional amendments, many of which have been retabled predominantly by the committee on the environment, i found it somewhat disappointing that those members found it necessary to go along that path.
what i want to do, first of all, is to thank very sincerely mr jarzembowski for the excellent work he has done on a very delicate subject and also mr blokland for the series of very positive amendments - from the point of view of the environment - he has brought to this commission proposal.
it will address all relevant sources of pollution, including industrial activities.
as a tool to achieve this objective the directive follows a combined approach of emission controls addressing pollution at the source and water quality standards to be achieved for the particular water body.
complementing existing community legislation on major sources of pollution, urban waste water discharges, pollution from agriculture and impacts from large industrial installations, the water framework directive foresees emission controls for particularly hazardous substances and water quality standards at community level.
beyond those measures the treaty provides for clear guidance as regards financing community environmental policy being, as a rule, the responsibility of member states.
while i am fully in support of strong, effective and costed legislation to force improvements in environmental standards governing water quality and other matters, and of the proper policing of such legislation, i would also like to see this stick approach complemented by, as it were, a degree of carrot.
i hope commissioner fischler understands that members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy fully endorse what the commissioner has just said about the need for extra resources to ensure that environmental legislation is properly enforced.
meps on the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy will insist that we are much better informed on this, so that we can keep track of what is happening on behalf of our anxious constituents.
i am pleased that my group has been able to sign all the compromise amendments, with the exception of compromise amendment no 25. we very much support the ban on the use of catering waste in animal feed, not least because the likely cause of the foot and mouth disease outbreak in the united kingdom was the use of pigswill as feed.
i am also pleased to see that catering waste from abroad, such as may come from aeroplanes landing in our country, has been upgraded to category 1. however, two problems emerge from this situation.
unfortunately, we will not be able to hide this oil behind the piles of fridges currently found in my own country and i am afraid that much of this oil will find its way into the drains of the country, causing environmental damage and also, i suggest, public health problems as it congeals and solidifies in the sewers of our major cities.
we also have a problem in germany, where there are centralised plants for treating catering waste, unlike the on-farm situation in the uk, which was not very satisfactory.
i would like to look at the very wide definition of catering waste in the annexes and in amendments 22 to 25. i will leave aside the feeding of carrion birds because i wish to look at a different form of carrion, that is the catering waste represented both by the recycled swill in some countries and by recycled cooking oils in others, including my own.
i recall that when the urban waste water directive went through, the impact assessment was very feeble and never really gave any figures as to the likely costs.
a very good place to start would be the new directive on packaging waste.
i am sure that every member state wants to send its minister to brussels to agree to environmental directives; that is just our problem.
they agree to far too much; they do far too little; and this waste water directive illustrates the problem.
the over-production and waste which characterise the cap and the worrying consequences for public health of intensive farming methods must be dealt with as we move towards a modern rural development policy, breaking the link with production and creating an environmentally sustainable policy providing aid to our farmers.
experience has amply demonstrated that when the european union and the united states work together, we can make a decisive contribution to creating a positive dynamic for change in the world by fostering the establishment of democratic regimes, opening up greater opportunities for trade and investment, reducing poverty in less fortunate societies or ensuring global environmental protection.
this is not the case in the environmental field, where the european union has just taken an important step in ratifying the kyoto protocol at the last council of environment ministers, just a few days ago, while the united states, with the adoption of the recent programme announced by president bush, seems to be moving further away from that objective.
they gained entry as a news team to the committee meeting when her report was adopted, and used the material to make a video that caricatures the views of the committee on the environment and its rapporteur.
moreover, it is better that measures to combat noise pollution and noise damage should be preventive rather than curative and that the emphasis in this area should be on collective rather than individual responsibility.
- i welcome the initiative taken to shake up the european energy markets.
while the final directive contains many of the sensible amendments proposed by the industry committee, european energy consumers will be in a much more favourable situation than they are at present.
it is also good news for small energy companies, which are sometimes discouraged from further expansion due to the high costs of entering a market.
gas and electricity are basic services, not luxury goods, and this directive will win the case of most european consumers and some energy producers.
poverty eradication and sustainable development are somehow automatically meant to follow, yet poorer countries have known for a long time that this is often far from the case.
for example, since the us has refused to implement the kyoto protocol because of the perceived impact this would have on us business, the eu should levy an energy tax on all us-manufactured goods.
these elements will be assessed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which deals with these issues, and the commission will be given a mandate to act accordingly.
it will consolidate our role and the functions of the commission in the field of trade and the environment.
i am struck, in particular, by how strongly the theme of genuine partnership shines through; how the eu/acp joint parliamentary assembly is a unique relationship in modern political life and – imperfect as it is – it can stand as a model for new and innovative relations between north and south, which are perhaps today needed more urgently than ever before to build a more peaceful and sustainable world.
that is why the committee on fisheries held a hearing and saw that the priorities for the industry were supply, continued employment, the environment, food safety, imports and also the consequences of enlargement.
we have to work towards availability of supply, but balance this with high hygiene levels and sustainability of that supply.
this culture not only runs counter to the eu's objectives of transparency and openness but also fosters an unfair tax competition environment.
yet, faced with the effects of a whole host of community legislation, whether it be management measures under the cfp or other provisions relating to hygiene, food safety and the environment, this sector is too often ignored.
the waste water directive is a perfect illustration of the lack of interest in the problems of the processing sector.
we also applaud the summit's emphasis on making work pay and on reducing the tax burden on the low-paid, and the agreement on the energy tax directive.
we need more economic growth but it must not be at the expense of our natural environment which we hold in trust for future generations.
one such example of a credibility gap is the partial agreement on energy liberalisation.
what credibility will it have in the eyes of the our citizens if we deny them the benefits of more choice and lower energy prices?
we urge the council to support parliament's call for a second stage of energy liberalisation to include domestic customers by 2005. the eu's credibility is also at stake in financial services.
despite the pre-summit hype in the run-up to barcelona, which suggested that the agenda would be considerably skewed in favour of neo-liberalism and structural reform, the outcome maintains the essentials of the policy mix established at lisbon, namely mutually supported economic reform, full employment, social cohesion and, from gothenburg, the issue of sustainable development.
the one element that we would have liked to have seen further developed in the overall mix at barcelona is that of sustainable development.
the second is that, for us, liberalisation in sectors such as energy is not an end itself.
it must be harnessed to the achievement of improved qualitative and sustainable growth, improved social cohesion and a better, cheaper, more effective service for citizens.
instead of full energy liberalisation, refused by france last year in defiance of its treaty obligations, we now read "partial" liberalisation, sometime in the future.
the tough bargaining on the precise terms of the non-domestic energy liberalisation, for example, on financial services directives, on the single european sky, still lie ahead.
it envisages greater harmonisation of energy taxes as the reward for what is a limited and uncertain energy liberalisation conceded by france.
french resistance on energy and the interventionist tone of parts of the communiqué highlight the continuing need to oust socialist governments right across europe.
as you know, the commission has set three priorities for the year 2003: first, enlargement; second, stability and security; and third, a sustainable and supportive economy.
the third pillar of our policy for 2003, mr president, is a sustainable and supportive economy.
we also have two other major tasks: security and the development of a policy for a sustainable economy, which are an additional responsibility for the commission.
i am particularly pleased that the priorities identified by the commission, such as enlargement, stability and security, and the sustainable and inclusive economy, largely coincide with those defined by the presidency itself and the european union as a whole, and confirmed by the barcelona european council, on which the president-in-office of the council, the president of the spanish government, has just informed this parliament.
it is still very early in the day to know that but the fact is that we have been able to find: enlargement, stability and security, and the sustainable inclusive economy.
clearly, in the sustainable inclusive economy there are a whole range of different issues in terms of having the human and financial resources available.
the annual policy strategy for 2003 contains some key initiatives on the development of a sustainable and inclusive economy.
they have failed to secure a fair standard of living for our rural communities and they have failed to achieve sustainability.
i applaud the policy strategy for seeking sustainable and inclusive objectives but let us remember such objectives must apply outside the eu just as much as inside.
in the past, the council has promised to put sustainability at the forefront of european development.
whilst it is true that terrorism may have an environmental impact, for example the release of pathogens or the deliberate poisoning of water, this report goes much further than terrorism.
i agree with mr berthu that we must resist attempts to extend the eu's sphere of influence into the judicial area, environmental or otherwise.
i am keen to see member states cooperating to adopt measures under the third pillar to combat environmental crime, for example in common definitions of criminal offences; but the british conservatives will vote for rejection of this report as amended because it has no legal base.
i am also drawing attention to the fact that some press reports have suggested that there are already accusations of mismanagement in the energy sector.
this also shows that the climate between the committee on budgetary control and the commission has changed positively towards direct, critical but constructive cooperation.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
my first point is about the expenditure in 2000 of the synergy programme, which is a programme to further international cooperation in the energy sector, and one strongly supported by the european parliament.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
– madam president, first of all could i put on record my thanks to mr bowe who was the budget rapporteur for the committee on the environment for the first half of the mandate.
for example, on the fifth environment action plan only 70% of the budget was spent.
it is true that the environment budget of eur 200 million – that is gbp 125 million – was only half spent in the year 2000. the reason for this was the life projects, which make up half this budget, and which could not be spent in 2000 because the legal basis was not determined in conciliation until july 2000. i am pleased to see that the five-year project has been telescoped into a four-year project instead.
despite the substantial under spending in the budget that is largely due to the life iii lines, and bearing in mind that the court of auditors have not voiced concerns, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy recommends that discharge be granted in respect of the 2000 budget for the budget lines within its competence.
i was not in the chamber when she made her comments about ecosoc, but i am sure she is now with me in calling for this organisation not only not to get discharge but actually to be disbanded because it is a waste of money.
how can they give discharge to an organisation where 5% or more of the budget is lost through fraud, mismanagement or waste and 14% of the budget, at least, is running as a surplus?
if nothing has changed by this time next year, if there is still no positive statement of assurance, if there is still 5% and more waste, mismanagement, fraud and disappearing money, and if there is still a huge budget surplus, then we will be getting to the stage where we will have to say to the people in the public gallery and the people who put us here that nothing has changed in the european commission, the reform process is still ongoing – and is the slowest process ever – and we have failed in one of our core tasks which was to sort these problems out in the first place.
it must be emphasised that, as with national civil aviation authorities which quite clearly deal solely with safety matters, this agency should not be drawn into dealing with other aspects, such as environmental and competition issues.
- i fully support the initiative to deal more effectively with the problems of pollution that are still being suffered.
indeed, calls to allow member states to treat violations of eu environmental legislation as criminal offences will send a strong and positive signal that the eu is a serious player in the environmental field.
by listing environmental offences and the corresponding penalties, the commission's proposal for a directive provides concrete instruments which will enable member states to implement environmental legislation in a symmetrical way, whereas at present eu environmental policy is applied in an ad hoc and asymmetrical way.
finally, by adopting this directive, the eu will reinforce and consolidate the explicit signal it gave when the kyoto protocol was signed, namely that it is a responsible and crucial global player in the field of the environment.
the answer to that is: waste, inefficiency and duplication, and that is the issue we have to address.
we save lives and we protect the marine environment.
firstly, would existing successful arrangements for dealing with electronic waste be allowed to continue?
but when you visit denmark or the netherlands where electrical and electronic waste is routinely collected, you see that the commission directive is really only an attempt to harmonise and build on the best practice of the present.
it certainly will play a major part in waste-management policy and that is for the good.
the group of the european liberal, democrat and reform party wants to encourage recycling, good product design, best-use resources and reduce pollution.
in particular i welcome his latest compromise proposal on paying for the costs of dealing with orphan waste.
unfortunately, we live in an increasingly throw-away society where we produce more and more waste.
enforced mandatory separation of electronic waste at each household, which could then, when non-compliance is found, be threatened with punishment is not a sensible way to encourage the cooperation of consumers nor is it, in every case, technically feasible.
it is quite clear that penta and probably octa are really not necessary and that the risks they pose to the environment and human health do not justify their continued use as flame-retardants.
the disposal of waste electronic equipment has not yet been effectively addressed and shifting the responsibility to the producer may well be an effective solution.
the directive also rightly mentions the role of consumers in the disposal of electrical waste.
finally, since some member states are lagging behind in the disposal of waste electrical equipment, it is vital to provide sufficient information on the new rules.
when we are looking at safe and sustainable pensions, it is a particular problem for women.
the commission has identified ageing as one of the six common challenges of sustainable development, and member states have taken decisive steps to deepen cooperation on ageing issues.
these are: anticipating an increase in expenditure while ensuring the sustainability of public budgets; adapting to an ageing and shrinking workforce; ensuring adequate, reliable and adaptable pensions; ensure that ageing europeans have access to quality healthcare for long periods of time.
we look to our societies and to our governments to act internationally to create a sustainable future so that we can change the situation of poverty in which many people live.
there are also very serious environmental and other consequences.
b5-0218/2002 by mr fernández martín and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the floods in santa cruz de tenerife; - b5-0231/2002 by mr marset campos and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the torrential rains in tenerife and climate change; - b5-0237/2002 by mr medina ortega and others, on behalf of the pse group, on the torrential rains in tenerife and eastern spain and climate change.
i want to look further, at the whole situation of climate change, which cannot be overlooked, either in the short or the long term.
i would urge many of these major nations to support what the european union is trying to achieve regarding climate change, to improve the situation.
in general, and in the current state of our scientific information, it is not possible to establish a direct link between these weather events and climate change.
however, we consider that climate change is the most important ecological threat we face and, as such, the agreements reached in bonn and marrakesh are successes for a multilateral approach to combating climate change.
as has just been mentioned, this progress has enabled the union and third countries to obtain the technical elements which will enable them to ratify the kyoto protocol and, as you know, the union's council of ministers adopted the decision to ratify the kyoto protocol at the beginning of march last year and we will all work together to ensure that the instruments of ratification of the kyoto protocol are deposited by 1 june, before the world summit on sustainable development, so that the leadership shown by the union on this issue is symbolised, including in the run-up to the johannesburg summit.
what we are doing now is giving the member states the chance to get their act together and to spend this money, to help improve the environment, working conditions and employment prospects throughout our european union.
it is clear that the capacity of the eu fishing fleet is greater than available resources and that therefore firm action is needed to allow many fish stocks to recover to sustainable levels.
the final results of the monterrey conference are encouraging and give rise to renewed optimism for the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg in september.
i believe we are faced with a contradiction – a contradiction that emerges clearly as mr harbour speaks on behalf of mr bradbourn, speaking on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy in this field of tourism.
since fisheries for these species have developed in recent years, it is necessary to establish a management system to ensure that their exploitation is sustainable.
we are coming up with a programme which highlights key areas for research but at the same time expresses the wishes of the citizens of europe for scourges like cancer and other illnesses and for environmental dangers to be combated with intelligence.
so much potential good is available to us in reduced applications of herbicides and pesticides, in reduced energy consumption and co2 releases, and in better quality and higher yields.
we all know that this is the greatest enlargement the eu has faced, so it is critical that we get the preparations right in time for 2004. this is especially so in the current climate in which the eu seems to be needlessly coming under attack from all sides.
the cfp has caused a very serious environmental disaster.
on the contrary, they only lead to inefficiency and waste.
it is a good time to examine this in the run-up to the johannesburg summit on sustainable development.
we need to look at sustainable development and the way in which we give economic possibilities to all.
i was recently amazed to meet somebody from a romanian embassy, who told me that the environmental clear-up for her country was important, but would have to be done after they had seen to the security of their borders because those were the priorities they were faced with.
i would like to make a preliminary comment on the scope of the report, and i agree with your approach to a global vision, in which aspects such as economic, social and environmental are included, and in that regard i would also refer to the speech by mr blokland, who insisted on the need to pay more attention to environmental issues, when in fact they are quite clearly included in the conclusions adopted on these points at the time.
we also discussed the further development of integrated networks and their efficient use, and i will make a few comments later on the points made by mr goebbels in relation to energy, transport and communications.
i should like to remind you that in the energy and infrastructure networks the commission proposed in december to improve the systems of co-financing by the european investment bank and also proposed the possibility of eliminating some of the bottlenecks in the transfer of services from one country to another, both in electricity and gas, which will allow us to improve interconnections and, ultimately, to achieve our objective of trying to improve our competition in the energy sector by 2005. we are doing something similar in the area of railway interoperability, all with the aim - as i said earlier - of improving the efficiency of our system.
the vote on the trentin report will take place on thursday and the vote on the marinos report will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the following three reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0129/2002, by mr schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the hygiene of foodstuffs (com (2000) 438 - c5-0376/2000 - 2000/0178 (cod)); - a5-0131/2002 by mr schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin (com (2000) 438 - c5-0377/2000 - 2000/0179 (cod)); - a5-0452/2001 by mr kindermann, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down the animal health rules governing the production, placing on the market and import of products of animal origin intended for human consumption (com (2000) 438 - c5-0382/2000 - 2000/181 (cns)).
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
– mr president, on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, i should like to congratulate both mr schnellhardt and mr kindermann for their work.
the opinion from the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy on the schnellhardt report, for which i was the draftsperson, focuses in particular on the need for consistency between food safety practices, which are deemed essential for the domestic sale or supply of foodstuffs, and those practices which cover the sale of such foodstuffs internationally.
with respect to the specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin, the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy wanted to build in greater flexibility, particularly with regard to slaughterhouses.
first, may i offer my sincere thanks to all those members who have worked so tirelessly to drive this dossier forward – in particular mr schnellhardt and mr kindermann and the members of the environment and other committees, who have made such valuable contributions.
a vast number of amendments have been discussed in the committee on the environment and other committees.
a5-0119/2002 by mrs paulsen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the monitoring of zoonoses and zoonotic agents, amending council decision 90/424/eec and repealing council directive 92/117/eec (com (2001) 452 - c5-0372/2001 - 2001/0176 (cod)); - a5-0120/2002 by mrs paulsen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the control of salmonella and other zoonotic agents in the food chain and amending council directives 64/432/eec, 72/462/eec and 90/539/eec (com (2001) 452 - c5-0373/2001 - 2001/0177 (cod)).
first, may i offer my thanks to all those members who have driven this dossier forward – in particular mrs paulsen and the members of the committee on the environment, who have made such valuable contributions.
many amendments were discussed in the committee on the environment, and i am grateful for the quality of the result, which is excellent.
an amendment to article 8 on the prohibition on the use of antibiotics for preventive or growth promotion purposes was rejected in the committee on the environment, but not the recital to the same effect.
– mr president, i am very pleased that the environmental noise directive, which the commission proposed in july 2000, is now entering the final stage of its adoption.
noise is an important environmental problem which we know concerns millions of eu citizens.
thus the commission is glad that this new legislation will soon enter into force and allow better protection of people exposed to environmental noise in europe.
for this reason the commission has decided to make the following declaration: the commission takes note of the text agreed for article 1 of the environmental noise directive by the members of the conciliation committee for the european parliament and the council.
the commission considers that legislative proposals to reduce noise emissions from all major sources should be made on the basis of robust evidence supporting such proposals.
this is in line with the knowledge-based approach for policy making as proposed in the sixth environmental action programme and approved by the european parliament and the council.
a number of different concerns have been raised by colleagues, of a political nature: the lack of us participation in the kyoto protocol, the biodiversity convention, the ottawa convention on land mines and, recently, the refusal to sign the treaty establishing the international criminal court.
staying out of the kyoto agreement on climate change means that the us is free-riding on the efforts of others to tackle global warming.
how can we expect the developing world to make its industries environmentally sustainable when the world's leading economy passes the buck so shamelessly?
i confirm that the commission can accept the 34 compromise amendments adopted by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on 13 may and tabled in plenary today.
report (a5-0131/2002) by mr schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the hygiene of foodstuffs (com (2000) 438 - c5-0377/2000 - 2000/0179 (cod)) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- it was considered incompatible, as contrary to the spirit of amendment no 40 if it were adopted, to vote on amendments nos 1 and 2 relating to paragraphs 16 and 17 afterwards.
all things considered, it will make us more competitive and help us fight serious diseases and environmental problems.
it is important especially if we look at the climate surrounding some of these discussions and debates.
since 1998, we have seen the adoption of a relatively modern constitution and legislative framework, an overall improvement in macro-economic stability and fiscal sustainability, the effective implementation of the privatisation process, a considerable strengthening of the customs and tax administrations and real improvements in terms of security and public order.
initial steps for the implementation of the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights recommendations have been carried out, the political environment appears to be becoming a little less confrontational.
the commission shares the report’s recommendation that a new president elected in a climate of consensus would be, by far, the best way to preserve – and further strengthen – stability.
these include: reinforcement of the implementation capacity of the albanian administration; albania’s judicial system should be substantially improved and freed from corruption and political interference; organised crime and all types of trafficking should be vigorously combated; energy sector reform should be rigorously implemented in order to prevent more serious consequences for the albanian economy and so on.
let me turn to this very serious subject, which i know has raised great passions and has produced a great deal of intellectual energy over the years: the question of the systems of fixed book prices in the member states, which, as honourable members have said, has been around for some time.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
as a first step we are proposing a directive on mandatory social and environmental performance.
how else can we move towards more sustainable production and consumption practices?
the environment, social and cultural issues, development and governance are, of course, all intrinsically connected.
this is shown by the fact that despite some advances since the rio summit, man-made climate change is still unabated.
the future needs sustainable communities in the true definition of that concept.
we need to ensure that an artificial polarisation between the needs of the environment and the needs of people is not allowed to develop any further.
the first point concerns the section of the communication on trade for sustainable development.
the commission is still too willing to make the unthinking assumption that trade liberalisation is an aim in itself, rather than a tool to serve the greater purpose of sustainable development.
accelerated environmental degradation over recent years has occurred as a direct result of the increase in resource consumption and economic activity generated under globalisation.
the eu should use its development assistance and other external powers to pursue the objective of binding minimum standards with respect to the social and environmental performance of companies.
madam president, i want to take a little time to talk about corporate social responsibility and sustainable development, not from the left but from the right of this chamber.
if you do not have global rules to sustain the development of our planet, we are going to end up with a problem where the rich get richer and the poor get poorer, the environment will get worse and sustainable development flies out of the window.
i have seen time and time again that companies with proper environmental and development policies have higher shareholder value than those companies that engage in looting and raping the other places.
the summit is to be seen in the broader international context of a series of high-level events, such as the least-developed countries' conference in brussels, doha, monterrey and johannesburg, providing fresh impetus and new opportunities to make progress towards sustainable development.
the summit will be able to build on the commitments and results of the various international processes and should integrate food security objectives more firmly into the broader poverty reduction agenda and strengthen the links to sustainable natural resource management and through this to sustainable development.
as a last point, i would like to reiterate the political will of the european community to support realistic and sustainable recommendations at the world food summit to meet the challenges of the fight against hunger, both at national and international level.
the current fisheries policy is not sustainable and is therefore doomed to failure.
the reform must lead to a new fisheries policy that ensures sustainable development in ecological, economic and social terms.
we must also ensure that those who are particularly dependent on fishing have a fair economic environment.
finally, we have sown a climate of mistrust through completely different controls and sanctions, so that today everyone believes that he is treated worse than his colleague in the neighbouring country, instead of ensuring a so-called level playing field.
but we must stop using premiums to encourage the fishermen concerned to invest without a proper economic environment.
our first reform package contains our objectives for the future, the reform proposals for conservation, the integration of environmental objectives into fisheries policy, fleet policy, fisheries control and the fight against illegal fishing.
our timetable takes into account that the measures may enter into force on 1 january 2003. if we have the courage to make responsible choices, there is also hope for sustainable fisheries, balanced ecosystems, greater independence of the sector and economic and social stabilisation of our coastal regions.
in its resolution on the green paper, parliament asked for a policy that would strike a balance between the needs of environmental sustainability and of fisheries as a socio-economic sector.
nor can we expect sustainability to be achieved through decommissioning alone.
we welcome too the intention to bring about better enforcement of the rules and the action planned to fight illegal fishing and ensure sustainable fisheries beyond eu waters.
the accent on conservation and sustainability must of course be central to the cfp.
after 30 years of meddling by the commission and in-fighting by member states, what we now have is a world-class ecological disaster and the near destruction of many parts of the british fishing industry.
fish stocks are a truly natural resource and should be renewable for all time.
for example, the scottish fleet has already shrunk in recent years to a more sustainable size.
yes, we all recognise there has to be a reduction in capacity and we must have a sustainable fishing industry and a fishing fleet at the end of all of this.
the basic principle for the future of both policies is sustainability in all three dimensions.
another aspect of the committee's second reading report which should be stressed is the need to make sure that the dissemination of environmental information keeps up with modern means of communication technology.
we must recognise the importance of coal to the eu energy supply and i want to emphasise the aspect of security of supply.
coal represents 16% of our final energy supply in europe.
i believe that our subsidies, however, should be directed more at clean coal technology for greater efficiency and lower emissions.
i am particularly happy to see the increased importance given to regional airports in this report, which will not only provide valuable flexibility in the air travel market, but also significantly reduce congestion around our principal capital airports, along with the concomitant problems which that causes to the economy and the environment.
madam president, i welcome the fact that the committee backed amendments to strengthen the commitment to environmentally sustainable transport by insisting on strategic environmental impact assessments of tens projects.
first, rules for disclosure of basic information about the company's social and environmental impacts.
that is why the european parliament will today vote for mandatory social and environmental reporting by companies, for new corporate governance rules, including making board members individually responsible for the social and environmental performance of the firm, and we will reaffirm our call for a new legal base for jurisdiction over european companies operations world-wide.
it is quite breathtaking that the european commission and the european investment bank commit billions of euros of european taxpayers' money each year to the private sector, through contracts, regional aid, investment promotion, yet we do not have simple contractual clauses to respect the basic labour and environmental standards nor clear monitoring and complaints procedures to enforce them.
finally, i particularly welcome the position taken by the commissioner and would thank her for the letter that she wrote to my colleague, mr pronk, last month which said that the commission has stated that the csr is essentially a concept whereby companies decide voluntarily to contribute to a better society and a cleaner environment.
my group welcomes the progress made by a number of companies to examine and audit their progress and to make that information public, whether it is information, for example, on their environmental impact, the effectiveness of their equal opportunities policy, or their involvement in the local community.
in looking at the wider responsibilities of companies based in the european union and the union itself, my group has tabled amendments requesting council to include in its remit for the johannesburg summit on sustainable development the proposal for the negotiation of a legally binding international framework on corporate accountability and liability.
my group sees the value of social security, not just to assist the sustainability of income, but as a measure of social inclusion as well.
we all hope that it will work with us in the european parliament to make our seas safer and protect our coastal environment.
you can never have 100% safety, but this proposal will do a lot to make our seas safer, save lives and protect our coastal environment.
the answer is, firstly, a marketing ban on new animal-tested cosmetics five years after adoption of the legislation, as the report that we adopted in the environment committee states.
mr president, one of the reasons that bali was so disappointing is that people need incentives to become involved in achieving the goal of sustainable development.
action plans should focus on people because development can only be truly sustainable in its widest possible sense if it looks at people's needs but has respect for different languages and cultures as well as cultural values.
there has to be partnership with developing countries and structures that respect democracy, human rights and good governance – new structures for global governance such as the world environment agency.
as we have heard from the other speakers, there is general pessimism about the prospects of success at johannesburg, so i would like to ask the commission what the eu strategy in pursuit of sustainable development will be if johannesburg does not deliver.
president museveni, after the bali meeting, said that talk about sustainability is all very well but that market access is the most important issue.
on trade, the commissioner says that if johannesburg focuses on trade issues we will lose the focus on sustainable development.
the point is that you cannot separate trade and sustainable development.
compromise, yes, but not a compromise which demands increasing environmental goals from the developing countries without offering them trade and economic gains at the same time.
sustainable development includes development and where is the commitment to that in the eu's position?
i remind the council and commission that two weeks ago this parliament voted for mandatory social and environmental reporting by european enterprises on their global supply chain, as a first step towards establishing a binding framework for corporate accountability.
i would not, however, like to end this debate on a negative note, mentioning all the injustices that exist in relation to the distribution of poverty in the world and the big problems of world trade, the problems of the environment and without thinking that europe has a leadership capacity.
let us remember the difficult starting point we actually have with, first of all, a completely different political climate from that which prevailed when the rio meeting took place.
we should not forget the climate negotiations, which also broke down at a certain point, but which could be resumed and brought to a satisfactory conclusion.
we need to be even clearer about the concrete objectives we have set out, for example on water and energy.
we need to make sure that we can save the position of environmental issues in the debate.
we need to save the whole concept of sustainable development.
it is important to see it as a whole where environmental issues have their place and where economic and social issues also have their place.
i would like particularly to invite mr byrne to confirm to the house that the provisions of last week's communication by president prodi on simplifying and improving the regulatory environment will be applied in full to the extension of his proposal.
a strong and solid knowledge base for policy making is crucial if the european institutions are to improve the regulatory environment.
the challenge is to ensure a high level of protection for european citizens in sensitive areas such as the environment, health and consumer protection, while avoiding over-regulation, which damages growth and employment prospects.
however, to meet our common objective of simplifying the union’s legislative environment, in particular for european small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), there is a need to increase interinstitutional cooperation, including cooperation on impact assessments by parliament and the council.
mr president, mrs zorba's report is very sensible and the ppe-de group will support it and almost all the amendments by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
our hope is that this programme will promote much improved communication and that the public will be much better informed about the objectives, the results, the applications, the achievements, the recognition of the ethical and environmental constraints and the practical usefulness of scientific endeavour.
as far as mr alyssandrakis' report is concerned, i would welcome a breakthrough in fusion research, not least because it is far less dangerous than nuclear fission and we need to have an alternative to that form of energy.
every citizen wants action on radioactive waste.
however, to do that it needs a commitment to sustainability in all aspects of its work, and that includes integration of social and environmental factors into its economic and trade policies.
we have to remember that without a healthy environment we have no sound foundation for our economies.
so we trust that will be remembered, as promised by commission president prodi, in the better governance arrangements and we are looking forward to the policy proofing and the impact on the social and environmental dimensions he mentioned today.
to be credible at that sustainability summit, we also need to demonstrate that we understand the importance of development and its link to certain aspects of immigration policy.
we strongly support a responsible attitude towards our environment.
draftsman of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
– madam president, when you stand in a derelict asbestos factory in poland and taste it on your tongue, when you hear a debate in malta about how they dispose of waste on a small island made of hard rock, and when you stand in a yard in bulgaria and see where the offenders with mental disorders are expected to exercise for one hour a day, you see some of the challenges that some of our european family have to meet as they seek to join the european union and adopt our acquis.
our committee on the environment's enlargement reports have highlighted concerns on nuclear safety, stocks of obsolete pesticides, food and feed safety, habitats and wild bird protection and human rights in mental health systems.
we cannot ignore the ecological warning signs.
other independent scientists claim the stocks are still at sustainable levels and they challenge the ices findings.
they want public aid to be used for building new vessels, they want open access to community waters, they support short-term profits over long-term sustainability, they oppose change, they support the status quo.
they must ensure that the objective of sustainable fisheries is at the core of fisheries management.
many of the projects of substance in the process are a continuation of those schemes, such as liberalising the energy markets, which were in hand before.
i support warmly the comments about stressing the importance for small businesses of a genuine opening of the markets in telecommunications, energy, postal services and transport.
mr president, i add my congratulations to mrs vlasto for her report, which was adopted unanimously in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
i have no problem with imposing burdens on business to improve, for example, the environment, but we need value for money.
one of the recent studies in the united kingdom suggested that the end of vehicle life directive, for example, cost gbp 400 million a year and benefits the environment only to the tune of gbp 100 million a year.
mr president, we all recognise the need to cut greenhouse gases and we all want to see policies on cleaner fuels.
firstly, by restricting the scope of the directive to biofuels, we could hinder rather than help achieve our overall environmental objectives.
we need a broader-based strategy to cover all renewable and carbon-beneficial fuels.
we need to cut carbon emissions quickly and as cheaply as possible.
member states need to be encouraged to negotiate targets in line with their own particular circumstances and the environmental performance of fuels suitable to their geographical areas.
we should also bear in mind that many high-energy biofuels may be better used in heat and power production rather than transport – another reason for allowing member states to develop their own biofuel strategy.
brazil and the united states have competitive advantages – lower land values and certainly a better climate.
we also welcome the acceptance of the compromise solution of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy regarding energy products.
amendments were also accepted on including waterway projects and linking the allocation of funds to the reduction of traffic growth and air pollution.
full employment in europe has two lines: one is the stability pact, the foundation of sustainable and stable growth in europe, and the other is the policy of reforms for a more competitive, more open, more productive area.
it is absolutely essential that we devote ourselves more vigorously and with more energy to africa.
the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment from pollution and the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, and the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals.
gm crops have the potential to bring major benefits, but they also pose threats to the environment.
advances in crop biotechnology promise major benefits for our environment and consumers.
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy understood these implications for industry, our farmers, our international trade relations, our scientific community and, yes, for our consumers.
although the evidence suggests that gm foods are safe, people are unsure about the environmental impact and the obvious unknown.
in a nutshell, the fundamental aim of this strategy is to strengthen the role that business plays in working towards sustainable development in europe and beyond.
sustainability is not just a matter of governance or of individuals, it is a matter for business.
csr is about companies integrating social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their interaction with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis.
"greenwashing" your social and environmental performance is as bad as "whitewashing" profits.
this strategy supports business and other stakeholder efforts for a better trade-off between economic, social and environmental needs in a globalised economy.
secondly, will commissioner diamantopoulou repeat her assurance, made to parliament on 30 may, that if business fails to make progress on annual social and environmental reporting within the two years, the commission will consider making such reporting mandatory?
(applause) on sustainable development, your commitment to concentrate on measures to put people back to work and ensure a sound economy rather than add to the proliferation of targets is music to liberal democrat ears.
we also applaud your aim to match further progress on energy liberalisation with common ground rules on energy taxation, and you can count on our support to broker the necessary deals on the many financial services measures needed by the end of this year if we are to complete the financial services action plan on time by 2004. president-in-office, with such a magnitude of tasks you shoulder a great burden.
(applause)
chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
– mr president, the committee on the environment believes that this is a measure that should be dealt with by my committee for three reasons.
firstly, it is based on a part of the treaty dealing with environmental protection.
it will be dealt with by the environment council.
the committee on the environment is responsible for environmental policy; the committee on legal affairs and the internal market is responsible for civil liability law.
in fact, this directive creates an entirely new instrument to combat general environmental damage to biodiversity, water and land, and puts an administrative burden on the public authorities in the member states to help prevent and restore such damage.
it is misleading shorthand to refer to it as an environmental liability directive.
the proposal should be referred to instead as the directive on the prevention and remedying of environmental damage.
(applause) secondly, three vice-presidents – whom we spent one and a half days electing two and a half years ago – decided unanimously that this report should be drawn up by the committee on the environment.
(laughter)the committee on the environment therefore voted to sustain its objections to the assignment to the committee on legal affairs although, i have to confess, that it voted by a narrow majority.
(laughter) there is one simple reason for this: if the liberal group wishes to take over the rapporteurship in the committee on the environment, it is bottom of the list.
the technology of genetically modified organisms offers us the opportunity to develop forms of agriculture that are less harmful to the environment, using less pesticides, herbicides, and artificial fertilizers.
we need to create a climate in which labelling is an encouragement to move further to develop real gm-free areas of cultivation and production and not the pretence that we have delivered in this proposal.
at the same time, the eu sought to ensure that the outcomes of the most important international conferences and summits of recent times, including, in particular, the un millennium summit in 2000 and the international conference on financing for development in monterrey in march 2002, were taken forward and linked to the forthcoming world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg, where the issue of fighting hunger and poverty will be addressed as an integral part of the overall international development policy agenda.
therefore, broad-based poverty-targeted economic growth and improved economic distribution policies that benefit the poorest populations are essential to a sustainable solution to the world's hunger problems.
in addition, consideration should be given to the sustainable use of natural resources and the importance of ensuring conflict prevention.
in its conclusions of 30 may 2002 on the preparation of the world summit on sustainable development, the council confirmed the eu's commitment to the successful implementation of the doha development agenda within the agreed deadline.
the eu is committed to achieving sustainable results on all fronts, including substantially increased market access opportunities, including for developing countries.
the eu was able to create a constructive climate of negotiation and effective cooperation with the developing countries, with whom we reached agreement on a number of issues which are now reflected in the declaration.
considering the key role of rural development and agriculture in fighting poverty, food insecurity and environmental degradation, the commission will present, before the end of the year, a communication to the council and parliament on “fighting rural poverty – an ec policy and approach to rural development and sustainable natural resources management in developing countries”.
only the totality of these different conferences give a meaningful response to the challenges of sustainable development and it is this totality that defines what we like to call the global deal.
i understand that the question of the seat is really for another place, though it would save a lot of energy if we eliminated this building.
i hope we are setting an example to the world by trying to save on energy conservation.
so i would suggest that if i table a question to the president-in-office for the december part-session, perhaps he will give me an undertaking that he will tell me specifically what the council has done with its own buildings as regards saving energy and setting an example to the world: energy-efficient light switches, for example, or any other measures that the council is going to adopt within the next six months to set an example to the world.
for example, in the case of falsification or failure to record data in logbooks the average in member states appears to range from eur 88 to eur 16 020. the committee on fisheries welcomes the fact that the commission has addressed the issue of harmonised penalties in chapter 5 of its proposals on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
it is now widely accepted that this policy has been an unmitigated disaster and to a large extent has led to the environmental and economic catastrophe we now find ourselves in.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the marine environment, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january.
- the commission must redouble its efforts to ensure a fairer environment and greater cooperation between the parties concerned.
i therefore call on the commission to take these concerns into account and to ensure that a fair environment is created.
when considering employment rates, too often the focus is on the macroeconomic environment, whereas local labour markets make a considerable contribution to the overall smooth functioning and dynamism of the economy.
so our task must be to support aid and sustainable development projects and to look for political solutions.
i feel a special responsibility to ensure that we do not forget that and ensure that this directive continues to develop in a positive way for the environment.
we have learned that recycling is not in itself a good thing but only good when it is positive and beneficial to the environment.
smaller countries with particularly difficult waste disposal problems cannot really be realistically expected to adhere to exactly the same levels of recycling that might be achievable in the netherlands.
finally, i would say that when we sit down today, i hope we will perhaps feel satisfied and happy and have a warm glow inside us, but also feel that we have done something not just for our egos but for the environment.
mr president, i have recently started to take a keen interest in waste issues, not simply because of the environmental needs of saving our planet's resources, but also because i represent wales, a region which has one of the worst records on waste in the eu.
97% of our waste is landfilled.
an environmental indicator to measure packaging has certain merits, but so far no one has managed to explain to me exactly how this would work and i therefore have reservations about writing into european law a system that does not yet exist.
the governments need to take their responsibility for waste seriously, but so do all of us as individuals.
– mr president, we meet here as the world summit on sustainable development is meeting in south africa, following the ground-breaking meeting of the wto in doha last year.
it is trade, not aid, that will eliminate world poverty and accelerate sustainable development.
these people are having severe structural, infrastructural, environmental and population problems.
we must create a framework in which the european parliament, members of national parliaments and the directors of these companies can come together in a forum regularly, twice a year, with the rotating presidency of the eu to discuss matters of development and sustainability, not once in a blue moon as in johannesburg or in rio, but in a continuous dialogue.
how can we have confidence in the sustainability impact assessment when the commission could not agree amongst itself on the impact of everything but arms on the sugar sector?
clearly such heavy reliance on sources outside our control makes the eu vulnerable to sudden price rises, climate change or harvest failures in these countries, almost placing our livestock sector in the same position as our heavy industry once was at the time of the oil crisis.
mr president, i should also like to thank the rapporteurs for their work and remind colleagues that the real issues, the three guiding principles against which we should test these proposals, must be safety, environmental sustainability and consumer rights.
but we must also take account of the environment, particularly in this week of the johannesburg earth summit.
every day millions of litres of fuel are wasted and unnecessary emissions are produced because of aviation delays and aircraft in transit across europe's skies.
a single sky will be a major contribution to reducing pollution, emissions and wasted fossil fuel.
- i wholeheartedly support this report which deals with the need to tackle the ever-growing mountain of waste in the eu.
i also welcome the call to producers to take 'all possible measures to minimise the environmental impact' of packaging, although i admit that such a measure may be difficult to harmonise.
finally, broadening the context of this directive and ensuring that it is compatible with the sixth environment action programme is justified and shows that the eu is capable of a comprehensive and sound approach to this issue.
for example, it has remained completely unclear how the funds for the restructuring of the fishing fleet in spain and portugal or the necessary funds to support sustainable fisheries reform should be financed.
the council, for example, cut the appropriations for the co-financing of the transeuropean transport and energy networks by 15 million.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment.
the commission must make preparations in 2003 so that the new members can be monitored from the start of enlargement, for example, on how environmental laws are being implemented, how competition rules are being respected, or what the situation is in the area of food law, veterinary rules, whether european union rules are also being implemented.
we have tried to make a fundamental change in policy coherence and evaluation of achievements, thus contributing to progress in increasing growth potential, creating more and better jobs, improving social cohesion and sustainable development.
the question i want clarified is: where does sustainable development fit into this?
in his introduction commissioner solbes talked about sustainable growth, which is not the same as sustainable development – some growth can destroy the environment and jobs and is not particularly sustainable.
so where is the sustainability element going to come from?
we have evidence first hand of the destruction of the environment, the water, the degradation of life in the marshes of the deep south, for example.
in this fluid environment, concerted long-term international support for the central government is more crucial than ever.
in such an environment, it is important to get priorities right, since it is unrealistic to assume that all the additional funding requests are going to be met at once.
our interventions are therefore carefully linked to the overall sustainability of the return programme.
we welcome the recognition, both in the report and the commission statement, that we must engage with asia, not only in trade and economics, but in other areas as well: cultural exchanges, for example, particularly between europe and asia's moderate islamic states; justice and home affairs, in the war against terrorism, drugs traffic and organised crime, all self-evidently with a global dimension; environmental policy, where europe and asia face the same threat from pollution and environmental degradation; security policy, where, in an increasingly globalised world, a crisis on the korean peninsula – as commissioner patten mentioned – would threaten the peace and stability of the whole world.
i had the opportunity to participate in the first asep meeting here in strasbourg back in 1996 and in last week's second asep meeting in manila, where we achieved a unanimity of views with statements on terrorism, the environment, on human rights for women and children.
this event, which was efficiently and successfully organised under the auspices of the philippine senate, concluded, as a number of colleagues have said, by issuing an agreed communiqué and statements which dealt with human rights, with special reference to women and children, terrorism and the environment.
she particularly mentions that the agency should take the lead on energy in kosovo, with which i would agree.
however, two factors in particular already stand out: firstly, the application of community legislation on the movement and disposal of pharmaceutical waste, and secondly, the carelessness of certain feed producers in their selection of raw material suppliers.
at the same time, the question arises as to whether community legislation in relation to the waste sector is sufficiently stringent and properly implemented.
i would remind you that had existing waste legislation been correctly applied in the case of mpa, it would have prevented such an incident.
i alerted my colleague, mrs wallström, as soon as it became apparent that the problem involved pharmaceutical waste.
discussions have taken place with waste experts from the member states and are continuing.
one lesson we can learn from this incident is the need for closer coordination and cooperation between the authorities responsible for the waste sector and those responsible for feed and food safety.
the authorities of the member states involved in this affair have been asked to provide all relevant information to enable the case to be assessed from an environmental point of view.
the problem probably came, as we heard, from waste water from an american-owned pharmaceutical company in ireland, sent by an irish waste disposal firm to a belgian reprocessing plant that is now bankrupt.
to quote the opposition mdc, 'mugabe's land reform programme has resulted in massive environmental degradation, condemned hundreds of thousands to poverty and put six million people at risk of starvation'.
we also fully support conclusion 5 of the report, which stresses the need for an holistic approach towards asylum and immigration looking at this as a horizontal policy objective and considering all policy areas, particularly those with an external dimension, such as trade, development, environment and agriculture.
we have long argued that we need to look at the effect of european union policies in acting as push factors, and after johannesburg we must be even more aware that what we are aiming for is sustainable development, reducing the causes of seeking asylum.
i also thank, in particular, mrs caroline jackson, chairperson of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, and mr joseph daul, chairperson of the committee on agriculture and rural development, for their valuable input.
we are also pleased that the difficult issue of catering waste has finally been resolved.
the solution permits a temporary relaxation of the ban on the use of catering waste in feed for some member states, under certain highly controlled conditions to be established by the standing committee on the food chain and animal health.
the use of catering waste in feed constitutes a major threat of transmission of serious animal diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease and classical swine fever.
the commission will now focus on preparing implementing measures – including the approval of alternative disposal methods and a derogation on intra-species recycling for fish and fur animals – as well as a number of transitional measures covering such matters as catering waste and used cooking oil, to bridge the gap prior to the application of the regulation.
i am pleased that we also included in category one waste from airlines which may have come from countries that do not have the same standards as we do, although i am sure some people would say that some of the airline food would not be considered fit for human consumption anyway.
there is category three, which is fit for human consumption, including catering waste, and category two, which is all the rest.
the big issue at conciliation was that of catering waste and there we had two national problems.
in the uk catering waste is banned.
but historically in the uk, we carried out our processing of catering waste on farms – so-called pigswill.
some of those are brand new and it would be unfair to shut them down at very short notice, particularly when one considers the alternatives as to where this waste would have to go.
maybe it would go into landfill, as much of the catering waste in the uk does, and that would be subject to rodents or seagulls taking part away and distributing it around the countryside.
a second possible way of getting rid of it would be using incineration, which is both costly and damaging to the environment.
we do, however, recycle waste oil produced from such establishments as fish and chip shops, that monument to the culinary art, but also from other catering establishments and private homes that produce waste cooking oil.
that has resulted in blocked sewers and other environmental problems as congealed fats and oils interfere with the infrastructure below our streets taking away the waste water.
- the next item is the report (a5-0289/2002) by mr sjöstedt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on transboundary movements of genetically modified organisms (com (2002) 85 - c5-0079/2002 - 2002/0046 (cod)).
mr president, i much regret that the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy did not deliver an opinion on this subject.
our coordinators were led to believe that there would be insufficient time to prepare an opinion before the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy finalised its report.
the commission proposal adds undesirable restrictive requirements beyond the internationally agreed cartagena protocol on biosafety, but the environment committee's suggested amendments go drastically further.
mr president, i am pleased to speak on this report on the transboundary movement of gmos in which the committee on the environment has adopted a more stringent and more comprehensive position than that proposed by the commission, following the lead given by the rapporteur.
i also welcome the fact that the committee on the environment expanded the regulation to cover food and feed which have been produced from or with the aid of gmos, as well as gmos intended for contained use.
we are actively working on our internal community legislation in this area, including the revision of directive 2001/18/ec on traceability and labelling, and we are also working on the issue of environmental liability.
it is all about finding that delicate and difficult balance between taking advantage of the benefits of a new technology, a new technology and new knowledge in this area and preserving biodiversity and making sure that we can defend human health, which is the most important thing.
amendments nos 7 and 45 deal with the issue of environmental responsibility and the commission considers that this proposal is not the right instrument to deal with this problem, which is more suited to specific international negotiations.
amendment no 22 proposes that exports of gmos for intentional release into the environment be restricted to organisms already authorised within the eu.
a workable proposal will not only help to continue the negotiations in a constructive atmosphere, but will also demonstrate that good environmental and human health protection can be combined with trade.
- the next item is the motion for a resolution (b5-0490/2002) by mrs roth-behrendt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the ban on the marketing of cosmetics tested on animals.
the commission has set sustainable development as its third priority.
this also concerns many individual budgets and programmes - the energy programme, the research programme, the programme of my colleague mr poul nielsen, or, for example, the rural development funds under mr fischler's responsibility and the large structural funds under my colleague mr barnier's responsibility.
thirdly, we want to see a reinstatement of the 20% reduction proposed by the commission in sustainable mobility.
again we talk a lot about the environment, but the very programmes that will help protect and preserve it will be cut if the commissioner has his way.
mrs schroedter, whom i also thank for her work - i am not forgetting the quality of her report on the second interim cohesion report - stressed sustainable development.
i can assure you, madam member, that i am extremely attentive to the fact that the structural funds are implemented within the framework of the regulations and in accordance with the european environmental directives.
for all sorts of political and personal reasons, i am making sure that the current and future member states use the structural funds correctly and in a way that respects sustainable development.
the commission has presented a new multiannual programme on energy - intelligent energy - which also provides for the promotion of such intelligent energy in third countries.
firstly, the g8 recently reached agreement on the need to promote energy efficiency and renewable energy in developing countries.
mrs schreyer referred to this (to the intelligent energy programme) earlier.
my question to mr nielson is: it is recognised that energy is a factor in poverty for the developing countries, so could he tell us how he proposes to coordinate his work with other dgs to tackle this?
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the environment committee has also asked for 50% of the budget for the european food safety authority to be put into the reserve.
in order to advance the immediate aims of the marco polo programme – those of improving the environmental performance of freight transport and reducing road congestion, albeit in a relatively small way – this lowering of subsidy thresholds is crucial.
i agree with the commission that congestion threatens both the environment and the operational working of the whole freight transport sector.
firstly, because we must tackle pollution.
transport is the fastest-growing source of global warming gases in europe.
as to the substantive issue of reducing road congestion and improving the environmental performance of the transport system, i note that this ambitious aim is to be funded to the tune of eur 115 million over 5 years.
we all agree, for example, that energy is the largest contributor by far to the emission of greenhouse gases.
some of us think that nuclear energy is expensive, outdated, potentially dangerous and no solution at all to energy problems.
but we all agree that transport is the key energy problem: fossil fuels must be replaced by alternatives, and very soon.
we agree that renewable energy and energy efficiency are key solutions.
remember that the key role of energy in poverty alleviation was recognised at johannesburg, and that the new eu programme, coopener, on renewable energy and energy efficiency in the developing world, will help to access some of the funding which will be available, this programme is important.
there is, incidentally, a very strong gender implication to the provision of energy, because of the tasks of women throughout the developing world.
the failure to achieve targets for renewable energy – a failure for which the united states, to their shame, are largely responsible – can be overcome with goodwill and effort from the european union.
i hope that this parliament will actively support universal membership of the unep for environment ministers.
this could be the starting point for a world environment organisation.
finally, i welcome the fact that the efforts to include biotechnology as an intrinsic part of sustainability were resisted in johannesburg, despite the efforts of the united states.
this takes away freedom of choice, undermines human dignity and works against sustainability.
i would like to convey these words to the danish minister for the environment, who is meeting his chinese counterpart today on the issues we are discussing here.
when she says that there was no mention of women and health in the declaration, i would point out that it was quite specifically mentioned that environmental threats to health must be reduced.
i think it is not possible to deny what mr lannoye and mr maaten have said, that agricultural policy is one of the problems when we in the european union are trying to reach agreement on a more sustainable future.
we are discussing a report that has been drawn up by mrs hulthén, a swedish mep, about how to combat climate change.
- while we are aware of the lack of international conviction in favour of sustainable development that reduces poverty and protects the environment, we are nevertheless reassured that the principles agreed at rio will survive.
the aim of achieving majorities with the g77 countries, allied to rio and kyoto, while the union blames its own failure in its project for a sustainable development that is limited to its borders, is a caricature!
the examples are numerous and revealing: biodiversity, the subject of a rio convention, is steadily declining.
the biodiversity action plan is a good one, but it is only wishful thinking.
the commission should aim to present an annual report on progress in integrating the sustainable development dimension into all community policies.
why do we not use our own initiative and not have the european union hurting its own citizens while the rest of the world merely goes on its way destroying the environment?
i tabled a few amendments for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, some of which were accepted.
obviously technology could be developed further, but it would require the use of catalytic converter technology, which is extremely difficult in a marine environment.
the ombudsman was on the record for criticising the commission's recent handling of the greek environmental complaint, in this case involving infringements of community environmental law by the greek authorities; enquiries revealed a catalogue of information being concealed, the wrong directive being applied and a failure to ensure that the case was dealt with impartially.
one of the other big problems we have in making progress in certain cases, especially those relating to the environment – such as waste disposal, water quality, etc.
epas shall be a tool for the smooth and gradual integration of acp countries into the world economy, thereby promoting sustainable development and contributing to poverty eradication.
the commission agrees with the need, highlighted in the report, for analysis and assessment of the impact of the epas on sustainable development.
the sustainability impact assessment foreseen in parallel with the negotiations is designed to achieve this goal.
its ongoing results should keep the negotiations on track towards genuine sustainable development.
meanwhile the commission is going ahead with the sustainability impact assessment and we will do so in full transparency with regard to the european parliament.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
we must not lose sight of our objective in relation to the cotonou agreement of poverty eradication and sustainable development.
mr president, i warmly welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work, particularly in expressing so clearly parliament's understanding that trade is only a means to an end, and that end is sustainable development.
only in that way, can we be sure that the initiative will genuinely contribute to poverty eradication and sustainable development.
mr president, i am very pleased to be participating in this debate, not as a member of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport but as one of the rapporteurs on the electronic communications package and a member both of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market.
most of them have gone already, because they do not want to waste their time here on thursday afternoon.
enlargement is actually the solution to the problems which concern our voters – the concerns about crime and drugs, about the environment, about jobs and a better future for our children.
turkey must be offered a pre-accession strategy accompanied by more financial support and a friendlier political environment.
there will be a whole new environment pushing towards multilateral action.
the lisbon council said, and i repeated this in my report, that we need to encourage a regulatory climate which is conducive to investment, innovation and entrepreneurship in general.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0297/2002) on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the energy performance of buildings (8094/2/2002 - c5-0268/2002 - 2001/0098 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr vidal-quadras roca).
indeed, at the recent world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg, the issue of over-fishing in international waters was recognised by countries around the world.
they committed themselves to limiting fishing to sustainable levels and to taking steps to restore fish stocks by 2015, a position fully supported by commissioner fischler.
as the holmes report points out, the only way to regulate this fishery in a sustainable way is by effort limitation, by limiting the number of days during which a vessel may put to sea.
this is the only logical and realistic approach to achieving a sustainable deepwater fishery.
similarly, rock hoppers which bounce across obstacles on the seabed to avoid nets becoming snagged can cause enormous damage to delicate corals and sea mounts which are an essential part of the marine ecosystem.
they have no concern for the marine environment, for sustainability, nor for the massive socio-economic impact which will result if we allow these fisheries to collapse.
it has, however, doubts as to whether fishing effort control should be the sole management tool and therefore also has doubts about amendments nos 11 and 14. the eldr is concerned that amendment no 13 may delay the implementation of the management measures and also believes that amendment no 15 could potentially have a negative impact on the environment.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. (the sitting was closed at 11.42 p.m.)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
it seems to be a waste of resources when the industry should be using it to cut back.
we are in favour of including the other five greenhouse gases, although measurement is an important question.
yet if those same critics look to the issue of climate change they will find that such cynicism is unwarranted.
we now see words being turned into action, with an emissions trading scheme which may well prove the basis for meeting up to 50% of the reductions we have pledged to achieve.
i first read about emissions trading and about harnessing market forces to encourage industry to meet environmental objectives a decade or so ago in pressure group magazines.
liberal democrats in the parliament will be joining in supporting a range of measures to broaden its scope, to extend it to include additional industrial sectors and require it to include other global warming gases in addition to co2.
after the successful conclusion of the kyoto conference in bonn, the commissioner told the press that we could now tell our grandchildren that we did something to tackle the problem of climate change.
the compromise we have agreed and voted in the environment committee has resolved many points of difference between various colleagues in the parliament, but not all of them, as we know.
i will be pleased to see all six major greenhouse gases included.
this is not the first time, and, believe me, it is certainly not the last time, that we are discussing action on climate change.
let me start by putting this debate in the larger perspective, namely what we know about climate change.
that there is climate change, we know that.
the scientists, we've brought together the world's leading climate scientists, say that to address climate change, we're going to have to go much, much further than the kyoto protocol does.
however, we also have to be credible at home, which is why we have launched the european climate programme.
together with all the different stakeholders involved, we have identified the actions we need to take at home to be able to live up to our commitments and to be able to fight climate change in a cost-effective way.
emissions trading is one such instrument.
we have now spoken about major sources of emissions, but we also need to review transport systems and take effective action in this context in the future.
(applause) i would like to thank
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0285/2002), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending for the 23rd time council directive 76/769/eec on the restriction of the placing on the market and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction) (rapporteur: mr nistichò).
nevertheless, this requires an examination of whether there is a release of the substance from the product, and whether the release is high enough to create risks for public health or the environment.
also, further reforms have to be sustainable, measured against the country's debt profile.
it is not just a question of harmonization: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
on data exclusivity, the balance that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has come up with is the right one.
i am delighted that the committee on the environment has rejected direct consumer advertising.
however, following the receipt of the common position, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, has accepted the double legal base.
as iso chips are not available in all countries, the committee on the environment has agreed to remove the requirement for iso standard equipment, but still wants the owner's details to be included.
i believe that each of these issues can be resolved without too much difficulty and i ask parliament to support the position of the committee on the environment.
mr president, i am pleased that the committee on budgets has endorsed so many of the amendments by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, in particular budget line b7-524 – assistance in the nuclear sector.
this is not a basis for the kind of dynamic and proactive administration that would be required to implement the strategy, capable of responding to a changing policy environment while continuing to monitor and scrutinise the implementation of existing legislation and policy measures.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment,public health and consumer policy.
while he was drafting it, he attended the discussions on my opinion in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and incorporated many of the points raised.
this will help production, employment and the sustainable management of natural resources in developing countries, enabling the poor to be self-reliant and break their dependence on our aid.
– mr president, the commission would first like to thank mr khanbhai – and mr corrie as his stand-in – for their work in bringing an issue as important as sustainable rural development to this debate.
in this respect, the world summit on sustainable development reconfirmed the commitments made in the wto ministerial declaration in doha – the so-called doha development agenda.
they include the importance of promoting gender equality, maximising the impact on poverty, supporting national strategies and the participation of stakeholders, as well as mainstreaming environmental protection.
the report rightly emphasises the importance of good governance for the sustainability of all development efforts.
rapid opening of their markets threatens food security and sustainable livelihoods in developing countries.
it will help to improve our public health and environmental protection, both inside and outside the european union.
mr president, this is a question about the eighth conference of the parties to the kyoto protocol dealing with the reduction of co2 emissions.
the european parliament, and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy in particular, are very concerned that we should keep the kyoto momentum going.
in the european union all is really not well, because some of the member states that have ratified kyoto are in the process of increasing their emissions of co2, notably spain.
we have adopted a number of directives tending to decrease co2 emissions, and the commission has put forward a very useful programme showing what it has done and what it intends to do.
australia might not have major co2 emissions, but it could lead the way in south east asia – a very important area where increasing industrialisation is increasing those emissions.
in the past, my colleagues have had increasingly uncomfortable experiences attending these conferences, for example the johannesburg conference on sustainable development.
will they deny that gm crops have major environmental benefits?
not only do they reduce production costs, they also cut back on the use of energy, pesticides and herbicides and reduce co2 emissions.
though their opponents are still grasping at straws, it is clear from experience in america and elsewhere that the environment benefits.
we must protect our environment as best we can, but we also owe it to our constituents to be frank and honest about the risks and benefits.
- the agenda calls for the commission communication on the package of proposals relating to the nuclear sector: permanent shutdown and safety of nuclear power stations in the candidate countries, waste management and nuclear trade with russia.
- (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at today's meeting the commission adopted a series of measures which, within the framework of the euratom treaty, are aimed at achieving a community approach to radioactive waste management and nuclear safety.
the package consists of a communication, a proposal for a directive defining the general principles and obligations in the framework of the safety of nuclear installations in the european union and a proposal for a directive on the management of radioactive waste.
ladies and gentlemen, the wide-ranging debate on the security of energy supply launched by the green paper has highlighted the problem of security of supply in europe and the role of nuclear energy in this respect and in our environmental commitments, in terms of greenhouse gas emissions under the kyoto agreements and the kyoto protocol.
in addition, nuclear energy is currently facing two challenges, two problems which have been highlighted in this debate: the safety of installations and the treatment of nuclear waste.
the common rules are simply based on the rules of the international atomic energy agency, which is based in vienna, but our proposal brings something completely new.
the rules, which in the context of the atomic energy agency are simply recommendations, will, thanks to the proposal for a directive, when it is adopted in due course - as i hope it will - become community rules, and therefore enforceable, binding in all the countries of the union and with the legal force that community law always has.
the second directive, ladies and gentlemen, will help to create new habits in the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste in the member states of the union.
we are not only talking about high-level radioactive waste, not only waste from reactors, nuclear power stations or research reactors, but also radioactive waste from other types of applications, such as medical or industrial applications, low-level waste.
firstly, we propose a timetable with deadlines for all the countries of the union to have the appropriate facilities ready and available for the underground containment of high-level waste, because today this is the safest technology for the storage of such waste.
in the case of less intensive waste there are other types of containment, but we also propose the availability and establishment of appropriate places.
we are establishing the possibility that the deep containment of such radioactive waste can be carried out in a cooperative manner between different states of the union.
secondly, we consider that this solution, although the most appropriate today, cannot be considered sufficiently satisfactory and, in this connection, we raise the need for further research into the treatment of radioactive waste in order to reduce or, eventually, eliminate the existence of this waste.
and we have to deal with a thorny problem, the problem of waste, especially high-level waste, but also other waste from medical or industrial applications.
the recommendations of the international atomic energy agency must also be added to this list, and i would stress that these recommendations will become community law and therefore enforceable at union level.
why are radioactive waste storage and control systems being sought?
mr president, there are already some doubts about the viability of the nuclear industry in a liberalised energy market, as witnessed by the problems of british energy in the united kingdom.
i would like to seek assurances from you today, commissioner, that in no shape or form can this package be used as a bail-out for the nuclear industry in a way which would prejudice other energy sources and give unfair preference to the nuclear industry in the european energy single market.
the coverage of the very considerable costs of waste disposal, for instance, should not simply be lifted from the accounting books of companies producing nuclear energy.
despite this, would you, commissioner, accept the need for the european parliament to give an opinion on the two directives and communication which you are presenting to us, particularly on whether or not the case for deep-level storage of highly radioactive waste has been proved?
yet romania has concerns that her own entry date may somehow be held up by the energy and commitment that we are putting into the first ten.
to add to the confusion and waste, european allies are now toying with two separate sets of military capability improvements: those for nato and those for the european union.
for over a year now, diplomatic and military staff energy has been wastefully expended on negotiating eu access to nato resources.
this programme is a clear breach of the commitments which the drc itself had entered into under four different international agreements on nuclear energy, including the so-called 1994 framework agreement.
we must do so and at the same time ensure that the inspectors of the international atomic energy agency in pyongyang can continue to carry out their monitoring task.
every pressure must be brought to bear to allow international atomic energy agency inspectors back in.
the aim is to reach political agreement on the whole package of measures for the internal market in electricity and gas at the energy council on 25 november.
for example, the single market could clearly be pursued in a way which ignored environmental side constraints.
they want management plants, sustainable development, integrated policies, multiannual plans, the application of the precautionary principle and, wait for it, target reference points for biomass and fishing mortality.
so it is essential that the commission gets it right, proposing a management system which ensures sustainable fisheries backed up by up-to-date independent and verifiable scientific evidence involving stakeholders and installing confidence in the system.
i and the leadership of the scottish fishing industry have played a constructive role, working with environmental organisations in the consultative process towards cfp reform.
if the cod have migrated northwards due to global warming, pollution or the north atlantic drift, then no amount of draconian measures will make them return.
i simply want to say that coming from the united kingdom – renowned for its fogs, not to say for its smogs – i can in no way criticise the climate of strasbourg.
the closures of the nuclear power plants at ignalina and kozloduy both require an energy strategy which takes neighbouring countries into account.
for example the completion of unit 2 at cernovoda is fully justified by the phare study of august 2001. the closure of units 3 and 4 at kozloduy should be reassessed in the light of the international atomic energy agency's conclusion, in its report, issued in june that these units have reached a level of operational safety which corresponds to those of the same age in other parts of the world.
i fully share mr frassoni's concerns about sustainable development, which will be discussed by commissioner wallström later on.
on the souchet report, we voted against amendments nos 10 and 11, and recitals h and i for sustainability reasons and abstained on the final vote for very similar reasons, i.e.
the environmental impact and making sure sustainable development is at the heart of the policy.
mr paasilinna and a few others raised the question of the energy dialogue with russia, and especially cooperation in the area of natural gas.
furthermore there are other interesting strategic issues concerning the geopolitics of europe's energy supply in the years to come, including issues relating to natural gas, and it is no surprise that this is a complicated and demanding question.
companies will be required to demonstrate the positive effect on the animal and the absence of any risk to human or animal health or the environment when applying for authorisation or re-authorisation of a feed additive.
at the same time, i understand the request from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy to slightly extend the scope of the procedure to those herbal medicines, which contain additional non-herbal ingredients.
the committee on the environment proposed to shorten the minimum usage time within the community from 15 to 10 years.
the committee on the environment wants to go even further and replace the committee which generally deals with medicines for human use (cpmp) with the new 'herbal committee'.
we want sustainable agriculture in developing nations.
but where is the scientific evidence about the medium- and long-term effects of gm crops upon biodiversity?
in this context, the commission welcomes the growing cooperation with the bank in a number of priority areas, such as regional development and the environment, as well as in areas linked to the 'innovation 2000' initiative, such as research and development, the audiovisual sector and information.
my group has submitted a small number of amendments which aim to highlight the importance of greater transparency and environmental commitment in the work of the eib and also, in particular, to ensure that the eib applies the highest ethical standards possible in project financing, including withdrawal from any project carried out in breach of national legislation or where corrupt enterprises are involved.
it is still difficult to combat these traditional ideas and entrenched interests, especially in a climate where the opponents of free trade often have the catchier slogans.
in particular, the report highlights the lack of progress in the liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets and urges action in the opening up of european markets in energy, transport and postal services.
if your checks are so thorough, why do you not give us, the parliament, a figure that we have requested for many years now, which is the percentage of money lost through fraud, mismanagement and waste – a figure you used to give us to allow us to have a benchmark to see if things are materially getting better.
the impact of these measures has not yet been analysed by the scientists, nor has the possibility that rising temperatures, pollution or the north atlantic drift may have contributed to the migration of cod further northwards towards iceland and the faroes where many thousands of tonnes of cod are regularly being caught.
i support the need for a sustainable fishery and the need to get fleet capacity into balance with available fish stocks, but i also recognise that a viable fishing industry needs fishermen to catch the fish.
i have also supported in principle proposals to move to a multi-annual, multi-species and ecosystem approach to fisheries management and my views are broadly in line with the commission's on structural issues.
we need to maintain sustainable marine ecosystems conserving fish stocks for future generations.
these are essential both to the sustainability of fragile coastal communities and of the stocks on which they depend.
finally, balancing the viability of the sector and the sustainability of stocks is not just a matter for the reform of the cfp.
northern ireland fishermen more than anyone want to maintain sustainable fisheries in the irish sea.
the difficult task of reaching a quota figure that is sustainable yet scientifically credible remains.
in order to ensure sustainable fishing, the stocks in angolan waters are monitored annually by scientists on the spot.
when each deal is debated, my colleague, mr nigel farage, has urged you to open your eyes to the environmental destruction and, more seriously, to the deaths of many hundreds of black african fishermen which european union boats are causing every year.
i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on the environment.
report (a5-0411/2002) by mr carlos westendorp y cabeza, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the granting of additional financial assistance to moldova (com (2002) 538 - c5-0484/2002 - 2002/0236 (cns)) (parliament adopted the text) after the vote
- this will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting.
scotland's fishing communities will be demanding that a new common fisheries policy actually does what it is supposed to do, namely that it actually addresses the real management issues in a way which will be effective in terms of conservation and sustainability.
the commission says that it wants from that a new way of doing things, a better way of doing things, involving stakeholders more, using a multi-annual, multi-species ecosystem approach to management.
however, mr president, my convictions of being a rebel in the cause of democracy and freedom, human rights and the environment have not changed.
if there are some aspects in which globalization makes sense, it's democracy, freedom, human rights and the environment, because democracy has no nationality, just as human rights have no color.
and because we have a responsibility to leave to future generations a livable world where our children and our children's children can breathe in peace not only democracy but an environment that is healthy, where factories that produce wealth cannot destroy the freshness of the environment that future generations will inherit from us.
i invite this parliament, for which i have the deepest respect, to make every possible effort, mr president, to begin to put a human face on globalisation if we want it to be sustainable over time.
globalization, to be sustainable over time, has to be inclusive, has to have a human face and has to include those who are marginalized today.
look at the waste of hands that can be part of the production process to make the economy grow in a sustainable way.
look at the waste of a potential market of that 44% of latin americans, who can consume more bread, more milk, more shirts, more shoes.
i say it myself, i am a fanatic of freedom, democracy, human rights and the environment.
i just want to say that there is a continent which is willing to buy and sell, which is willing to live together with democratic convictions, with the defence of human rights and with care for the environment.
today, at the end of this reflection, mr president, i just want to say that the time has come to work together to make freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and care for the environment not just a concern of latin america.
parliament particularly welcomes the inclusion of a new point in the proposed directive to prohibit all activities exposing workers to asbestos fibres, except demolition work and disposal of waste products resulting from demolition and removal work.
the whole thrust of the proposal is to protect workers engaged in those activities and repair work, which will bring workers into contact with asbestos locked up in the built environment for many years to come.
the commission has devoted much energy towards improving legislation where necessary and to reinforcing official controls in the community.
this has attracted the support of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and of parliament.
i pick out arbitrarily an amendment which says that there was no evidence of health or environmental problems arising from some of the burial sites in the south-west.
i would invite my colleagues, for instance, to see and visit, as i have, the viridor site near kingsteignton in the south-west and then come back and say to me with any real confidence that they think there are no environmental or health effects.
finally, the report hints at breaches in environmental legislation due to such events as the burning of dead carcasses.
the environmental agency within the uk carried out an investigation of the procedure used in the foot and mouth outbreak and concluded that there had been no breaches.
we strongly reject the claims concerning breaches of environmental legislation because the environmental agency has conducted its assessment and come to the conclusion that there was no environmental harm.
in fact, it is inaccurate in its references to the legality of the slaughter, alleged violations of animal welfare legislation, alleged violations of environmental protection legislation and biosecurity errors.
thirdly, no criminal prosecution for violation of animal welfare legislation has been carried out and no environmental damage has been identified by the environmental protection agency.
however, i reject a number of incorrect observations and conclusions in this report, in particular those relating to the legality of slaughter, alleged violations of animal welfare legislation, alleged violations of environmental protection legislation and biosecurity failures.
violations of environmental protection legislation the environmental protection agency has analyzed the matter and has not identified any environmental damage.
mrs buitenweg asked about the environment, also in preparation for the tasks that will arise with enlargement, because environmental laws - quite rightly - must be implemented from day one, if there are no transitional arrangements, but transitional arrangements must also be observed.
the directorate-general for enlargement will have 18 additional posts for preparation for enlargement when you have completed your vote on the 2003 budget on thursday, and more will be available through implementation, so that 33 additional posts will be available to the directorate-general for the environment during the course of 2003. i would like to take up what mr walter said in his contribution on the adjustment of the financial perspective in the context of enlargement.
this is an important directive, as it would introduce a ban on substances that have been identified as dangerous brominated flame-retardants posing unacceptable risks to human health and the environment.
furthermore, the proposed directive provides not only for the protection of human health and of the environment but it would also preserve the internal market, as it would introduce harmonised rules throughout the community.
it will allow the right balance to be found between the protection of health and the environment, on the one hand, and the need for effective fire protection on the other.
however, they appear to have dangerous effects on the environment and public health and, therefore, we felt something had to be done.
if i am asked to give an example of the way in which the principles of sustainable development can be put into practice, then this directive may well be it.
if i am asked about the burden of new regulations which parliament sometimes places upon industry in the cause of environmental improvement, i will proclaim this directive as an example of the way in which industry and parliament can work together.
four of the major manufacturers of electrical goods, including our chief lobbyist, electrolux, have teamed up to develop a common approach to waste management which aims to be both innovative and cost efficient.
mr president, the concerns about increasing quantities of electrical and electronic equipment entering the waste system have been well rehearsed.
there can be no dispute that this type of waste is a problem.
properly designed such a scheme could permit end-users to be paid for delivering waste material, which is exactly what happened with car batteries and the reason why – before the eu intervened – we managed to recycle over 80% of car batteries.
the requirements in these two proposals: firstly, to ensure recycling of substantial quantities of waste electronic and electrical goods, and, secondly, to ensure substantial reductions in the amount of hazardous substances in these products will be technically and financially very difficult to achieve for many people.
we can be pleased that individual consumers can expect to return their waste appliances free of charge, and that the primary responsibility for collection and disposal of waste electrical and electronic goods will be with the producer.
however, we may see the unfortunate situation of local authorities – and consequently local taxpayers – dealing with orphan and some historic waste.
despite all the difficulties that i foresee in implementing this proposal in parts of the union, we are taking a very important step tonight and tomorrow when we vote on it – it brings us all a very practical step forward towards a sustainable future for the european economy and a sustainable future for all.
we are now faced with a disaster of such magnitude that it is no longer just a transport issue, it is also an environmental, social and fishing issue, which is why my group believes a committee of inquiry is needed to ascertain what went wrong with the prestige.
this is the worst ecological disaster for years and the ppe-de group calls for a hearing – pathetic!
it has been almost exclusively a european phenomenon and we need more research on the sustainability of return under avr programmes.
i too pay tribute to the energy of mr haarder.
on the question of return, are we forcing women to return to afghanistan, to an environment described by human rights watch as being just as oppressive as it was under the taliban?
perhaps it would be interesting to look at a country outside the eu – switzerland – in terms of energy policy.
recently the swiss had a referendum to ascertain whether they should liberalise their energy provision, presently provided by their local cantons.