the battle for social and environmental criteria, which was largely won by the monetary committee's proposal, shows that the european parliament remains a key supporter of the european social model and of sustainable development, the only way to make europe competitive in the global environment.
the amendments to the social and environmental criteria, which must be taken into account, do not impose new obligations or increase the costs of undertakings, but suggest the obvious, namely respect for the european acquis in the field of labour and environmental protection.
the amendment therefore also facilitates employment and the sustainability of enterprises.
the report by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy welcomes these lines of action and recognises the overall benefit that will be derived from the development of space activities.
first, we must ensure that the basic principle of the cap is the development of the fisheries sector and the orientation of fishing activities towards sustainable levels, both economically and environmentally.
at this point, however, i should like to inform the house that if amendment no 1 – which, in my opinion, completely changes the spirit of the report as adopted by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy – is adopted then i will not be able to support the final resolution and i will be in the unpleasant position of voting against my own report.
in the present case, the spirit of the report, as adopted by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, has been so distorted that, in keeping with my political convictions, i had no choice but to reject it.
i consider it very important that the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has adopted by a majority the view that space activities should be used exclusively for peaceful purposes.
for example, it is right to talk about the pollution of marine ecosystems, and therefore of fish, by dioxins, which can enter the food chain, just as it is right to talk about the risks posed by the consumption of genetically modified fish from third countries.
it is responsible for the pollution of the seas by waste, dioxins and other factors, and, insensitive to the consequences for the environment, does not hesitate to use any production method to maximise its profit.
into the environment.
- is responsible for the overexploitation of resources, to the extent and where it occurs, and for the pollution of the seas.
the generalization of such a policy will bring whole regions of the eu which depend on fishing to a standstill and will harm small and medium-sized fisheries undertakings which are not responsible for industrial pollution or over-exploitation of resources.
such assessments and proposals are objectively designed, on the one hand, to appease public opinion in relation to the enormous social problem of unemployment, accidents at sea (which sailors call maritime crimes) and ecological disasters, and, on the other hand, to mask the responsibilities of shipowners and their political representatives.
such a policy can cover the needs of seafarers' families, the safety of human life at sea and the protection of the environment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
we cannot attribute such a statement to the bulgarian minister for energy, mr kowachev.
according to the information available to the commission, in a statement of 10 january 2002 on the early closure of the four reactors at kosloduy, the bulgarian minister of energy indicated the years 2008 and 2010 as the closure dates for units 3 and 4 respectively.
the bulgarian energy minister's statement did not concern blocks 1 and 2. the fact is that in the understanding i reached with the bulgarian government in 1999, we agreed that the first and second units would be decommissioned in 2002, that is, that year, that we would agree with the bulgarian government to decommission units 3 and 4 in connection with the review of the country's energy strategy and that this decision should be taken before the original date.
this means that we cannot, of course, conclude the negotiations with bulgaria on the energy chapter unless we have a binding date for the decommissioning of blocks 3 and 4. the agreement i reached with the bulgarian government at the time is part of the european union's common negotiating position on the energy chapter concerning kosloduy.
the commission calculates that bulgaria has a considerable excess capacity in energy production and, with a new and modern nuclear power plant under construction, the loss suffered by bulgaria is being compensated and the problems are, in our view, completely manageable.
i would ask you to insist on this point, because there is always the uncertainty that energy is not sufficient, and i would like to know what has been done on your part with regard to the single interconnected operating system with which energy exchanges could be made, so that there are no states to ask what will happen now that reactors 1 to 4 at kozloduy are shut down, that is, do we have a shortage of energy?
as regards their impact on the pension systems, i must stress that one of the parameters for tackling the sustainability problems of pension funds is the increase in employment.
this has already happened for cotton under the cover of nitrification and environmental protection, for tobacco under the cover of anti-tobacco campaigns and public health protection, etc.
we give critical support to the report and the controls that limit these problems, while stressing that we will only have complete food security if the fundamental criterion for their production is not profit but the protection of consumers, livestock and the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
and of course we must look very carefully at the future of cohesion policy, in conjunction with sustainable development policy and rural policy, for which we have an obligation to avoid hasty, hasty solutions which can be detrimental to our farmers, to what we need for the countryside, the environment, our own lives.
and common sense tells us that when we have this speed limit we will have a gain, firstly in road safety, because we will have fewer accidents, secondly we will have a gain in the field of environmental pollution and, thirdly, we will have a guarantee of fair competition between businesses, because we will have the same limit everywhere, all over europe, while at the same time companies will not be able to force their drivers to drive too fast and thus, in the name of profit, to risk human lives.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products, which would be responsible for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use.
it is remarkable that the european parliament approved a similar amendment in the report on the european union's space policy, which i had presented at the previous session on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
we have seen them in yugoslavia, together with their friends from this side of the atlantic, killing civilians, destroying infrastructure, destroying the environment.
the first concerns the strategy for sustainable development in preparation for the barcelona summit, and it is a concrete follow-up to the project launched last year in gothenburg, where, in my opinion, the environmental aspect was successfully combined with economic development and social cohesion.
the common objective of the efforts is to put into practice the adoption of a long-term and comprehensive strategy of the european union for sustainable development.
an important area of the present, and especially of the future, is biotechnology, for which the aspect that can play an important role in sustainable development should not be overlooked.
biotechnological applications, especially the use of genetically modified organisms, if applied with caution, can make a positive contribution both to the economy and to trade and to environmental protection for many well-known reasons.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0027-2002), on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the '.eu' first level internet domain.
the commission can accept amendments 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. with respect to amendment 6 of the recommendation for second reading, as adopted by the industry, external trade, research and energy committee, the commission cannot support the amendment to article 8. however, in the light of parliament's concern over the implementation of the .eu top level domain, the commission wishes to state the following: the commission shares the view of the european parliament that, to be successful, the .eu top level domain should be in place very quickly and should not be burdened by an excessive regulatory framework.
russia has a similarly important role to play as a catalyst for conflict prevention in the south caucasus and for resolving the highly sensitive energy issue, whether the countries of the region are involved as producers or consumers of energy.
thirdly, we must ensure that the south caucasus is definitely on the agenda of our relations with the main players in the region, such as russia, turkey, iran and the united states, and as some of the honourable members have said when they have intervened, also in our own interest, inter alia for reasons relating to energy supplies.
when the commission analysed these issues - which is why i have presented all three reports together - it came to the conclusion that the concept of globalisation must include at least the elements referring to the existence of an efficient international financial system, development aid systems and elements linked to the environment and sustainable development.
the commission believes that we must move forward together and at the same time on the issues of globalisation, development aid and the environment, without forgetting a fundamental framework: the outcome of the doha commitments.
thirdly, the effect of the above is to cause serious disturbances in the functioning of the internal market and to prevent competition and thus price suppression in favour of competitiveness in the energy production sector and of european businesses as well as in the consumer sector; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment to the various categories of goods and services.
finally, any delay in the opening of markets is a deterrent to private enterprises and foreign investment in the energy sector and the european union in general, and therefore does not increase employment, which is supposed to be the main objective.
liberalisation ignores social needs, such as the provision of energy to islands and other hard-to-reach areas, but also causes obvious difficulties in long-term planning.
– mr president, an infringement procedure against greece was opened in 1996 regarding the failure of the greek authorities to transpose directive 94/62 on packaging and packaging waste international legislation.
i say this because it is a very bad coincidence, yesterday and the day before yesterday we had heavy rains in athens, together with a strike of street cleaners, and the huge volume of waste, which is the aim of this directive, clogged all the sewers and flooded the city.
when will we start to have waste reduction and other types of policy, recycling, reuse, etc.?
in this proposal, the commission also announced a further proposal for the first half of 2003, which will be based on the guidelines of the commission's communication of 16 may of the previous year on the european union's strategy for sustainable development.
of course, if we were to negotiate that the entire environmental acquis in the new member states must be achieved by 2005, it would cost 130 billion euros, and then these 130 billion euros would have to be raised.
i ask the council, because it has not given a clear answer and it has not yet, as it says, taken a position: in any event, will it accept, on the basis of the conclusions of the qatar summit, the abolition of subsidies and if so, will it take into account that in countries such as greece and other countries of the south we will have abandonment of agriculture, with all the consequences that this entails, such as the violent clearing of small and mediumsized farmers, the increase in unemployment and the impact on the environment?
it is well known that tobacco growing is a predominantly family-based activity, a highly intensive form of work in which all the members of a family are involved, and that tobacco is grown on barren and poorly fertile land, thus also meeting the need for human presence and activity in areas where desertification and ecological neglect would have incalculable negative social and environmental consequences.
pressures are mounting to hand over national wealth to private interests, and there are calls for accelerating the pace of privatisation, with liberalisation of the energy, natural gas and transport sectors, as well as privatisation of public utilities and liberalisation of services of general interest, without concern for the impact on workers and consumers.
at this stage, the opposition among eu leaders prevented the completion of the transfer of the energy sector to private capital.
(parliament approved the request) in addition, the group of the european people's party and the european democrats and the group of the european socialists have asked that the title of the fifth item be changed to read: 'torrent rain in tenerife and eastern spain and climate change'.
the main objective of the common rules on civil aviation and the creation of a european aviation safety agency is to maintain a high and uniform level of safety throughout the union and to improve environmental protection, as the last speaker said a moment ago.
- mr president, madam vice-president, the erika 2 package, like the erika 1 package that preceded it, is a milestone in the effort to establish reliable safety measures and to protect the marine environment, the importance of which is undoubtedly recognized by all.
this is further proof that the protection and improvement of the quality of european shipping is directly linked to the improvement of safety of navigation and the need to protect human life and the marine environment.
the commission's original proposal contained positive provisions to improve safety at sea and reduce the risk of marine pollution from accidents.
amendment no 1 is essentially an attempt to further clarify that a member state may, when conditions are very unfavourable, restrict both the departure and the arrival of a ship, since a ship remaining in port sometimes poses a greater risk to safety and pollution for the port itself.
amendment no 2 attempts to deal more realistically with the cost of pollution or damage to a host port, so the readiness of ports to receive a ship in distress is reasonable to be strengthened when the port authorities know that there will be a reasonable and immediate compensation for the costs involved in the recovery operation.
finally, amendment no 3 is an attempt to provide the necessary resources immediately so that the member states can make the necessary arrangements to provide adequate facilities and equipment in ports of call for the purpose of assisting ships, rescuing them and dealing with pollution.
there is no doubt that the aim of the famous euro-mediterranean cooperation is not to contribute to the sustainable development of the third mediterranean countries and the prosperity of their peoples, nor to democracy and peace in the mediterranean, but to promote the multinational interests of the european union.
the participation of the regions and local communities, the participation of civil society, of women, not only in economic life but also in the three pillars of the barcelona process, as the european parliament recently pointed out in a resolution on the subject, will give democratic content to our efforts, sustainability to our plans, and protect human rights, which is an imperative for the whole region.
during his visit, mr patten put across the messages that all eu member states were committed to the eu's china policy, that not only had trade and investment cooperation been impressive, but also that very strong progress was being achieved in other bilateral and transnational areas of concern, for example immigration, the environment and science and technology.
the future priorities of our cooperation in china will be support for the social economic reform process, sustainable development and environment, and the promotion of good governance, human rights and the rule of law.
alongside the different aspects i have singled out here, there are several other issues to which we attach great importance, such as relations with hong kong, macao and taiwan, and international issues such as global warming and illegal migration that, unfortunately, i do not have sufficient time to comment on today.
- the report (a5-0071/2002) by mr fatuzzo, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the commission communication entitled 'an integrated approach to national strategies for safe and sustainable pensions' (com (2001) 362 - c5-0012/2002 - 2002/2017 (cos)) is on the agenda.
the necessary reforms must be supported by the whole of society to be sustainable.
instead, the cassandras of all kinds are daily advancing their ominous prophecies, about the planet sinking under the weight of 6 billion people, about the resources of production being depleted, about the natural environment being destroyed, about the poor peoples growing and multiplying as we the developed ones grow smaller and smaller and older, while our social security systems collapse.
however, until we have this comprehensive policy of sustainable development that the commissioner has mentioned, we can follow the good advice of those who propose to abandon the restrictive immigration policy and give full social and political rights to immigrants.
through the "achievement of social objectives" and the maintenance of financial sustainability, a policy is introduced which abolishes the social and social insurance rights of workers, with a view to reducing the cost of labour.
in this spirit, tourism must play a positive role in broader communication, in getting to know other peoples, customs, customs and cultures, in contributing to the development of friendly relations between peoples, in promoting popular culture and history, in the healthy and creative combination of tourism and the environment.
there are measures by various directorates-general, not just yours, concerning tourism, the internal market, the structural funds and the environment.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
(the minutes were approved) the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0153/2002) by mr caudron, on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, on the council's common position on the sixth framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities contributing to the creation of the european research and innovation area (2002-06).
i would naturally like to thank the chairman of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, mr caudron and the alternate rapporteurs, mr van velzen, mr piétrasanta and mr plooij-van gorsel, for a really excellent cooperation work which has the merit of being thoroughly integrated into the programme.
the specific aspects of the content have been developed further, such as the health science research topics, the question of a larger geant network, the science and society topics, research, support for environmental issues, etc.
first of all, this category includes environmental measures in agricultural policy and is therefore of great importance for sustainable agricultural development.
these are community grants to improve the environmental performance of freight transport systems.
finally, as an example of category 3, i would mention that the measures for a smart energy policy, namely the promotion of innovative forms of energy, have the highest rate of increase here, at almost 50%.
i believe that this is yet another example of the priority given to promoting sustainable development being followed by appropriate financial approaches.
the above, which is clearly the result of so-called creative accounting, should stop and the commission is already pushing for more transparency and honesty in the data communicated by governments, while at the same time emphasizing the urgency of accelerating the necessary structural changes, especially in the pension sector, the liberalisation of markets, especially labour and energy, and the upgrading of the training provided in order to achieve the lisbon objectives.
further efforts, including appropriate financial support, are needed to ensure that the various programmes are implemented in a sustainable manner in the candidate countries.
- (de) overall economic growth in the eu fell in 2001 to 1.6% (from 3.3% in 2000), while the unemployment rate remained virtually constant (7.7% in december 2001 compared to 7.9% in december 2000), the inflation rate increased with the introduction of the euro from 2.1% in december 2001 to 2.5% in january 2002, the share of investment in european gdp is well below the threshold required for sustainable growth.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
mr president, we are discussing a subject which has to do with sustainable development and the political signal which parliament wants to give, both through itself and through the european union as a whole, at the johannesburg conference next august, 10 years after rio.
the temptation would be to make a very long list of issues and problems relating to sustainable development and its future.
the population of the earth is growing rapidly, all the statistics say so, the pressure on resources is increasing, thanks also to the globalisation of the economy, the problems of the environment in general and of social cohesion are likely to intensify.
i think we can all agree, mr president, that whatever definition we give of sustainable development must include development and social cohesion and environmental protection.
we are talking about changing production and consumption patterns, we are talking about eradicating poverty, about integrating the environment into all policies, in agriculture, in fisheries, in industry, in energy, in tourism, in water, in air, but what is missing are the targets, the timetables, the indicators that show whether we have achieved our objectives, the means, the funds, the transport of resources, the control of this use of resources.
the report and the resolution have many proposals on poverty reduction, renewable energy and many other points, but they require resources, institutions, rules, good management, local, national and global political management.
the reforms of the international system of the bretton woods organizations and the newer world trade organization when they conflict, for example, with its rules on environmental protection.
- madam president, the concept of sustainable development is not new to european union policy.
at the rio conference on sustainable development, the union played a leading role, not hesitating to commit itself on important issues.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the union must also recognise the right to development in countries in the process, taking the lead and setting the right example in all matters relating to sustainability, while ensuring the involvement of non-governmental organisations in all development projects.
free access, transparency and dissemination of information on the environment are fundamental rights of every citizen concerned about the quality of the environment in which he lives and works.
access to data held by public authorities and related to the environment is essential not only to improve public awareness but also to ensure citizens' trust and democratic participation.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the member states with the information they require in order to ensure that the environmental impact assessment is carried out in a timely manner.
i believe that it should be limited to the real cost of reproduction, so that public access to information is facilitated as much as possible and that cost is in no way a deterrent to the acquisition of environmental information.
this logic is tantamount to opening pandora's box, because it will make it possible to remove subsidies for a series of products, after pseudo-scientific 'studies' have judged them harmful to the environment.
in view of the above, it appears that the council took account, in whole or in part, of a significant number of parliament's amendments when formulating its common position and that the spirit and objective of the original proposal, namely to tackle problems of safety at sea and protection of the marine environment, is generally maintained.
– mr president, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank mrs roth-behrendt and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for this report and congratulate them on the impressive work they have done.
however, to find a consistent and sustainable solution for the substances specific provisions have been introduced to strengthen the legal framework, while complying with the key principle of risk assessment.
to provoke a wto case under those circumstances might, therefore, be counterproductive, increasing the polarisation between developing and developed countries and reducing the chances of success of the eu's effort to bring such matters as animal welfare and environmental and social considerations into the wto discussions.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0141/2002), by mr nisticò, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council's common position with a view to the adoption of quality and safety standards for the collection, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human blood and blood components (14402/1/2001 - c5-0069/2002 - 2000/0323 ((cod)).
i am glad that the european commission has adopted a number of important amendments at first reading, but it should also welcome a number of amendments which were not accepted at first reading but which have been tabled and voted on again in the committee on the environment.
the proposed amendments before you today are the culmination of considerable efforts on the part of the council in reaching its common position, the environment committee in proposing amendments to that position, and the rapporteur, in cooperation with the spanish presidency, in trying to reach a compromise.
- the next item is the report (a5-0139/2002) by mrs klass, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the indication of ingredients in food (com (2001) 433 - c5-0404/2001 - 2001/0199 (cod)).
can you tell us about the alliance of the united states, canada and other countries with the oil-producing countries, and how much this is holding back the renewable energy case?
the council has also decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment policy, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, and so on the next.
– mr president, the specific programme for research and training on nuclear energy provides eur 940 million for activities in three priority areas – controlled thermonuclear fusion, management of radioactive waste and radiation protection – as well as other activities in the field of nuclear technology and safety.
subject to a positive outcome of the international negotiations, a specific decision is expected in the period 2003-2004, so that construction of iter could effectively start during the period 2005-2006. this will be a major step towards sustained production of energy from nuclear fusion, which is expected to become an efficient source of energy within a few decades.
regardless of the future of nuclear fusion reactors, the problem of radioactive waste – in particular long-lived waste – will be with us for several thousands of years.
the specific programme provides for eur 90 million to be used for research on geological disposal and the development of concepts to produce less waste.
finally, the chapter of "other activities" covers the evaluation of innovative concepts and the development of improved and safer nuclear energy processes, education and training in radiation protection, improvement of the safety of existing installations, for a total of eur 50 million.
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy welcomes the commission's proposal and expresses its support for fusion research in general and iter in particular.
a number of amendments proposed by our committee refer to nuclear waste and nuclear safety.
ways of dealing with waste should be not only acceptable to society, but also intrinsically safe.
the research on interim disposal, waste characterisation and waste packaging, should be funded, together with research on geological disposal.
research on innovative concepts and techniques that produce less waste should include the high-temperature reactor, light-water reactors, gas-cooled reactors, fast reactor technologies and co-generation.
overall, the adoption of the report by the committee on industry will mark an important step towards more efficient and safer nuclear energy.
it is unacceptable to waste such funds on the place of work and at the same time to seek to save money on the use of the working languages of the european parliament, which are indispensable for every citizen, regardless of his level of education, to be able to be a member and for all citizens of the union to be able to fully understand the work of the parliament.
it took a great deal of political courage to take a decision such as that referred to earlier by commissioner verheugen on the ingalina nuclear power plant, especially when one is aware of the economic dependencies and the regional structure of the energy networks in the region.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the aim is to secure markets for capital and to develop neo-capitalist agricultural models, with the marginalization of the rural world and the degradation of its social and environmental role (i refer you, without further comment, to paragraph 24 of the report).
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
- mr president, we are discussing today the legislative proposal for a regulation concerning, firstly, the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms, secondly, the traceability of food and feed produced from genetically modified organisms and, thirdly, the amendment of directive 2001/18 concerning the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms.
the commission's proposal, and the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, do not, unfortunately, provide any guarantee that these objectives will be achieved.
i think it is therefore clear that the commission's proposal is so contradictory, and indeed as it was formulated in the committee on the environment, that if we accept its principles, we will be led to abolish any scientific basis and logic and proceed to food labelling based on political convictions or even ideological views.
- mr president, the communist party of greece is in radical disagreement with the directive which frees up genetically modified organisms because we believe that they do not protect public health and the environment, but the profits of a few multinationals who, among other things, will control food production.
we are very much afraid that what is being done is focused on reassuring public opinion, on making the risks look good and on creating a climate of acceptance of gmos, favouring multinational food companies and the multiplication of their profits, leaving dangerous scope for undermining the health of consumers and the balance of the ecosystem.
– in the context of meetings between the commission and national authorities in order to examine the application of european community law in member states – the so-called package meetings – a delegation from the commission environment directorate-general visited greece in may this year.
the main objective of the meeting was to debate on issues related to atmospheric pollution.
in particular the commission inquired about measures adopted by the greek authorities to transpose and implement directive 96/61, the so-called ippc, and reviewed technical issues related to infringements and complaints concerning bad application of directive 84/360, concerning combating air pollution from industrial plants.
the information contained in those replies will be assessed with a view to checking whether greece has respected its obligations under european community environmental legislation.
i don't know what you've been given in writing, but we now have dozens of testimonies and site visits, both from me personally and from environmental organizations, that everything on paper is not being implemented at all.
the three general objectives are: first, to improve information and knowledge for the development of public health; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the following areas: firstly, the protection of the environment and the environment, secondly, a rapid and coordinated response to health threats and, thirdly, the promotion of health and the prevention of disease by addressing the determinants of health in all policy activities.
these lifestyle factors, such as smoking, alcohol, diet, and major socioeconomic and environmental factors, together with genetic factors, constitute the main causes of disease.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
in the name of what is called a 'healthy environment' for business and investment, the greed of big business is being reinforced, with no regard for the economic and social repercussions, the uncertainty and insecurity faced by workers and the heavy financial burdens they bear.
the commission has also been active in the field of the protection of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency.
as stated in the common position, the objective of relations with cuba is to promote the transition to a pluralist democracy and respect for human rights and freedoms, as well as a sustainable economic recovery and an improvement in the living standards of the cuban people.
europe also needs to act as a global role model and a driving force, using international agreements such as the cotonou agreement to actively promote gender equality, not only for the sake of gender justice but also as an important factor in poverty reduction, sustainable economic and social development, deepening democracy and consolidating peace.
all these measures, which are supposed to protect fish stocks and sustainable development, are in fact adopted to restrict access to fish resources by small fishermen and to hand them over to big business and its fishing enterprises.
the commission's insistence on respecting the gatt agreement and agenda 2000, which prohibit the increase in crops producing plant proteins, together with its insistence on respecting the gatt agreement and agenda 2000, reveal the full extent of the commission's hypocrisy in trying to reduce agricultural production under environmental pretexts through agenda 2000, while at the same time showing its subordination to the interests of the industries producing and marketing animal feed.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
the gender dimension must therefore be taken seriously into account in the formulation of all policies and measures must be implemented to eliminate direct or indirect discrimination against women, which ultimately comes at the expense of sustainable development and the competitiveness of the economy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
– mr president, this now is becoming really interesting and we have created a long agenda, covering everything from the common agricultural policy to openness and transparency, animal transport, johannesburg and even foxhunting in the u.k. the debate relates to the environment, of course, so i am tempted to enter into all of these discussions with my own personal views.
we know that we have to protect and restore habitats and natural systems, and to reverse the loss of biodiversity.
the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy of the european parliament are in the right direction, and that is why i support them.
the objectives of big business for 2003 are made clear by the relative reduction in the funds proposed at a time when people's needs are increasing, unemployment is rising, the environment is being destroyed, so-called globalisation is creating new forms of exploitation and is multiplying poverty and hunger in the world.
i shall not repeat them, nor will i repeat the negatives, the specifics, aid, renewable energy sources, etc., which my colleagues have also mentioned.
we have said before johannesburg that there must be a balance between the growth-trade pole and the environmental protection pole.
the second thing we said was that we should incorporate, in the most practical way possible, the cost of protecting the environment into our production and consumption.
fourthly, mr president, we have stressed the political and international dimension of environmental protection and sustainable development.
and, excuse me, not only did it not become the world environmental organization, which was quickly buried before johannesburg even began, but it also put aside any discussion of a stronger political coordination of the organizations, old and new, those of the bretton woods system, but also the world trade organization, etc., with a political objective of sustainable development.
the main points are as follows: firstly, a directive must be adopted to promote the combination of thermal and solar energy, which will ensure low costs and high efficiency.
thirdly, the commission should present a communication on quantitative environmental targets in the transport sector by the end of 2002, so that the sector also contributes to the kyoto target of 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, by stressing the need for all motor vehicles to be included in the co2 reduction strategy.
fourthly, the commission should immediately propose a framework directive on fluorinated gases for industry in order to reduce emissions in all sectors.
fifthly, a proposal for a directive on improving energy efficiency in public procurement should also be published immediately.
sixthly, the european union should politically condemn the lack of action by the united states in favour of the environment and its attempts to undermine the kyoto protocol; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0293/2002) by mrs hautala, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0288/2002) by mr callanan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position on pleasure boats.
the problems associated with free movement, such as violation of the right of residence, double taxation, non-assurance of insurance rights, environmental issues, as well as issues of recognition of diplomas and qualifications.
the second point i would like to stress is that: a number of reports received by the committee on petitions report on planned or ongoing projects or behaviour by national authorities which breach mandatory european union rules, often resulting in irreparable damage to the environment or european cultural heritage.
i believe that quality of work, which is the central idea of the guidelines, sustainable development and the individualisation of rights can be incentives for a longer working life for women and, moreover, i would like to stress what mrs evans said on behalf of the committee on women's rights, namely that mainstreaming should be at the heart of your new employment strategy.
madam president, the conclusion of an association agreement with algeria is indeed a positive step in the process of euro-mediterranean cooperation and in the achievement of the objective we all share, which is not only the creation of a free trade area but also of a region of sustainable development, security and prosperity for all its citizens.
the document refers to a meeting of the task force of the scientific committee of the united states department of defense, which is looking at the focused, as they say, use of force to isolate certain regimes by groups... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, the kyoto protocol has been hailed by many as an important step towards tackling the climate change that threatens life on our planet.
however, after pressure from the us, the protocol included a loophole that allows states and companies to opt out of their specific obligations, and that is the greenhouse gas emissions trading system.
it is unacceptable to create a whole market which will trade pollution as a commodity and where, instead of some firms reducing some of the emissions they cause, they will buy the surplus of others, which have not exceeded their limit.
it is equally unacceptable to present pollution as a right.
this shows how hypocritical her declarations about the environment and the climate are.
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is incompatible with the maintenance of the profits of the monopolies.
of course, under capitalism everything is sold and everything is bought, even pollution.
but the climate, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and the future of life on our planet are not for sale or for purchase.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0327/2002) by mrs evans, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on animal health conditions for the non-commercial movement of pet animals.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in this sense, i am sure that the next two days will add two new positive steps and we, the heart of the european union, parliament, must give this process the political spirit and climate which unfortunately tends to fade away, turning the debate from a debate on progress to a debate on poverty and misery.
we're sleeping with our pants and boots on, and we don't want to waste any opportunity for compromise.
i have doubts - the honourable member has asked whether environmental and social issues could not be included here - as to how this could be justified.
if we see that the environmental acquis is not being fully implemented somewhere, i do not know why we should have the instrument of a rapid injunction in the candidate countries and the normal infringement procedure in the member states.
the present production potential and conditions would allow the world's food needs to be met with respect for the environment and public health, but the existing social relations, i.e.
instead, it proposes measures that exacerbate the problems, adding serious risks to the environment, public health and the dependence of developing countries on developed-country multinationals.
in fact, you sometimes even disregard the 1% adventitious presence of gmos because – and i agree with you here – the authorisation for the circulation of a given gmo comes under a different directive, which takes into account the risks for human health and the environment.
if there is no risk to human health and the environment, an authorisation is given.
where all institutions have been destroyed, it is necessary to bring people who have been in conflict together, it is necessary to change the whole social, political and development environment.
thirdly, it is positive that the countries of the wider environment will soon all be members of the european union, from romania, bulgaria, austria, greece and so on, so that the surrounding countries will have a positive influence on developments in these countries.
deputy rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the use of pesticides is not reduced.
political union, economic union, a common social policy, comprehensive environmental intervention here and in the world - these are the reasons why we want the union, and i hope and believe very much that our colleagues from the candidate countries want this too, and not to discuss other minor details.
we have invested a great deal of time and energy in ensuring that the new treaty promotes gender equality.
at the same time, however, it advises linking research with industry and creating a favourable climate for trade; in other words, it is pushing for the adoption of the european model and wants research to be carried out in accordance with the rules of the market.
- (el) first of all, we think that the motion for a resolution on the integration of environmental protection requirements into the common fisheries policy is a good idea, and we support it.
the european union is concerned about the delay in the final liberalisation of gas and electricity markets, energy, transport and postal services markets and the full liberalisation of markets, the completion of privatisations and the generalisation of temporary and temporary forms of work.
who cares about the unpredictable effects of these organisms on our planet's delicate ecosystem?
we have adopted almost unanimously, ladies and gentlemen, five directives in this parliament which obviously have to be implemented, and there was another one before that on the dumping of waste at sea, which is theoretically being implemented.
we must design corridors for the passage of tankers so that these areas are not burdened by pollution.
of course, coordination does not include two of the four pillars proclaimed by the eu, namely environmental protection and social cohesion, but it adds the completion of the single internal market.
it is clear that the protection of the environment and public health are not among the priorities of the european union, despite its declarations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.