following the launch of the euro in a difficult economic climate, there remains a need to complete economic and social reforms and achieve sustainable development, as envisaged in lisbon and stockholm; the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east.
this is an important policy objective because it will ensure that on entry these countries can participate within the union in a competitive climate.
that's why we're talking about transportation, energy, the financial plan.
the only way we can preserve the european social model is to make it sustainable, viable and financially viable, and that is done with growth and employment, which are the recipes, without a doubt, that we must support.
the same energy and ambition that guided the creation of the euro must now be applied to coordinating economic policies that can boost growth and employment.
the second area, concerning environmental considerations, is another very important question.
both the fishing industry and the committee on fisheries claim that they agree with the need to conserve stocks and protect the marine environment.
mr president, as regards the miguélez ramos report the verts/ale group considers that the conservation of fish stocks and the protection of the marine environment are of fundamental importance to the common fisheries policy.
among other things, it seeks to relieve the fishing sector of responsibility for depleted fish stocks by saying that it is the fault of pollution, habitat destruction etc.
considering the desperate need to incorporate the concept of environmental protection into fisheries, this report falls far short of what is required.
- i support the adoption of the sixth environment action programme, as i believe it will significantly strengthen eu legislation in key environmental areas - water, air and noise pollution, waste management, levels of pesticides and hazardous chemicals and the reduction of greenhouse gases.
as regards ireland, i must draw attention to the fact that the laissez-faire attitude displayed over the last five years by the irish government on environmental protection means that ireland will have great difficulty in achieving the new environmental objectives as adopted by the european parliament today.
the policy of this government to ignore eu environmental legislation, when it has agreed to comply with it, means that ireland will have the greatest difficulty in meeting the eu's new, stricter environmental targets.
failure to comply with eu environmental legislation is not only breaking agreements that ireland has committed to with its european partners, it is also preventing irish people from enjoying the clean and safe environment to which they are entitled as european citizens.
we will see if this creates a positive and creative environment between us and the other institutional actors in our work for europe at the next convention.
the scenes in dublin were more reminiscent of other countries, where there are greater extremes of climate.
as i said, i would have liked to have seen stronger teeth here, but we need legally binding measures – which i believe we have – which will begin a process of really ensuring that we deal strongly with energy saving in the european union.
some of you have suggested the need for the bank to pay more attention to environmental elements.
environmental issues are of course fundamental, but each institution must play its part.
to date, the eib has already a portfolio of over eur 16 billion, mainly in infrastructure (transport, communication and energy infrastructure) but also in the environment and, increasingly, directly in the promotion of the private sector.
the environment, another area which has particularly attracted the attention of your rapporteur and of several speakers, i think must be approached from two angles.
the first is the volume of environmental projects we finance, projects which directly contribute to the protection or improvement of the environment.
last year, we funded environmental projects for six billion in the form of individual loans and two billion through what we call global loans, which are loans to intermediary banks, which in turn lend to local communities.
so six billion euros for environmental projects in the european union and half a billion in the candidate countries.
this means that we are now allocating about one fifth of our lending directly to environmental improvement.
this is the first aspect, but there is obviously a second aspect, and your committee has rightly paid a great deal of attention to it: that is that other projects, those not directly aimed at improving the environment, must also take account of the impact on the environment.
we must therefore put in place the means to assess more systematically the impact of these projects on the environment.
that is why, following a suggestion made in the report of the previous year by mr lipietz, we have changed our internal organisation and have set up an environmental unit within the project management, whose task is precisely to verify that environmental aspects have been taken into account in the analysis of projects.
i hope you agree and that you will help create this climate conducive to a majority for change.
we must favour creating a proper business environment where employment can be created, and where proper and real jobs can be maintained within the european union.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the report (a5-0030/2002) by mr bullman, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the spring 2002 european council; - the report (a5-0021/2002) by mr karas, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the economic consequences of the attacks of 11 september 2001; - the oral questions (b5-0006/2002) and (0007/2002) by mrs jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, to the council and the commission on the sustainable development strategy for the barcelona european council.
in this presidency document, which is being drawn up at the moment in accordance with the results of informal discussions at the ecofin meeting in february and the next ecofin meeting on 5 march with all the countries of the european union area, in this presidency report, i mean, the presidency proposes to strengthen the coordination of economic policies between the member states, and in particular in the euro area, to consolidate the commitments which guarantee budgetary balance, to contribute to the sustainability and quality of public finances, and to boost, without a doubt, the growth potential of the european economy through structural reforms.
from the point of view of the political commitment of the european countries to the stability pact and the convergence plans, i would like to reiterate that there is at present a commitment by each of the member states to achieve budgetary balance by the scheduled date of 2004. we are also analysing the sustainability and quality of public finances, analysing the effects of generational pyramids and ageing populations in each of the countries and the commission, as parliament is aware, has reiterated to the member states the need to adopt measures to ensure the sustainability of public finances.
firstly, from the point of view of the reforms of the network industry, which mainly concern transport and energy, it is clear that over the last few years there have been asymmetric liberalizations throughout the european union which now require, in order to match the level of liberalization in all the countries of the area, movements in the same direction and with the same intensity to ensure, on the one hand, the same situation of liberalization in all european markets, and therefore the absence of disparities which could affect the level of competition in the area as a whole, and at the same time also a policy of crossborder exchange or networks which allows for the existence of a genuine supply and demand market at european level, both from the point of view of energy and from the point of view of transport.
the barcelona council, according to the presidency, must mark the beginning of a real energy market beyond the minimum limits set out in the current directive, and this requires the adoption of ambitious timetables for the liberalisation of the gas and electricity sectors to promote freedom of choice of supplier, especially in the business market.
in addition, the liberalization process, as i have said, must be accompanied by quantified objectives for interconnections between the member states' networks, and this requires the implementation of the measures contained in the legislative package adopted by the commission on 21 december, including the proposals for the development of infrastructure projects and changes in the system of financing the transeuropean energy networks.
mr president, at the barcelona council, in addition to these three guidelines on financial markets, network industries and the labour market, the presidency will also include for the first time the analysis of the relationship between growth and the environment, or in other words the need for sustainable growth in environmental terms, and to do this we must undoubtedly make progress in formulae that guarantee sustainable development.
as agreed at the un general assembly itself in rio in 1997, the gothenburg european council added a third environmental dimension to the process of economic reform, as i have already said, and following these conclusions, the council took note of the need to draw up an annual road map, with the measures to be taken in the environmental field, within the sustainable development strategy and to be taken into account by the council presidency, in collaboration with the commission.
the laeken european council welcomed the choice of environmental indicators for monitoring the implementation of the sustainable development strategy and welcomed the progress made towards european ratification of the kyoto protocol.
the first synthesis report assessing the process has been produced using the environmental indicators i have just mentioned, which were adopted by the council in laeken on 17 january 2002. as for the ecofin council itself, at its next meeting next week, on 5 march, a report on this subject will be discussed, that is to say, the synthesis report, which has already been prepared by the economic policy committee and will enable the barcelona european council, as well as the successive spring councils, to continue to ensure the implementation of the three dimensions of sustainable development.
the barcelona conclusions, together with the commission communication, should enable the european council in seville at the end of the spanish presidency on 25 and 26 june to prepare the european union's position for the summit on sustainable development to be held in johannesburg in september 2002. finally, mr president, i would like to refer to the framework for the development of entrepreneurs in europe, which is also one of the concerns that several councils have shown, and which will be taken into account in barcelona, and very particularly with regard to the development of a suitable framework for small businesses and for new entrepreneurs in europe.
this decisive step we are taking in barcelona is in a totally different economic climate, because the optimism of lisbon is no longer there, but the slowdown in the world economy makes it all the more necessary to complete this strategy.
it is a tangible manifestation of the dialogue between the institutions, and i expect that the barcelona meeting, as minister rato has already said, will produce some concrete results in terms of boosting reforms, creating jobs, strengthening cohesion and improving the environment.
the fourth objective is to analyse progress in the field of sustainable development.
we must also take this into account in some of the specific decisions we will have to take, for example in the opening up of energy markets and the reorganization of the transport sector.
sustainability can also generate growth and jobs, for example in the field of clean technologies.
we ought to focus more on improving the quality of the proposals that we put forward, ensuring that they respond to the demands and needs of the peoples of europe, and more importantly, ensure that they lay down a solid foundation for the future development of economic prosperity, of stability and of sustainability.
i do not believe that there is a conflict between economic development and sustainable development, nor that we cannot put in place an aggressive taxation policy to create employment, to ensure that business and industry can have a competitive environment in which to succeed and prosper, and that does not necessarily lead to the detriment of social protection, or of investment in social services like education, health and infrastructure development.
that idea has been turned on its head by the economic realities of existing member states – also by the performances of other member states, such as in my own country in particular – ireland, where an aggressive reduction in taxation policy, reducing the cost of labour and the income tax levy and ensuring that business can survive in a harmonious industrial relations environment with the majority of the earnings that the workers are getting going into their pocket and not going into taxation; while at the same time, increasing the levels of protection that are available for those who are most vulnerable within our society and increasing investments in education and health.
in particular, as we look to move forward and create a new environment for the creation of new jobs and new opportunities for people within the european union, we believe that going back over old policies which have failed and rejuvenating them under a new name will not work.
paragraph 29 calls for coordination or harmonisation of taxes in the european union, in particular with regard to the business environment.
in conclusion, i believe that efficient, cheap and sustainable energy production is a key element in achieving our goal.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the difference between the two documents lies in the fact that the commission document simply reports discharge data whereas the wise report presents an analysis of the impact of these discharges on human health and the environment.
in order to obtain a more complete picture of the impact of all historical discharges on the northern european marine environment, in 2000 the european commission launched the so-called marina ii study, which will be completed this summer.
it will also make an assessment of their levels in northern european marine waters and their impact on human health and on the environment.
however, i should like to ask, based on that and the assessment you have already made, what further steps the commissioner would recommend to control the continued emissions of radionuclides from sellafield and la hague.
they are the largest man-made radioactive emissions and pollutants and do not pollute just eu member states but migrate across the globe.
you indicated that you are concerned about the emissions from sellafield.
– linkage between allocation of community funds and compliance with community and environmental law is even-handed and applies to all member states.
the framework waste directive is not an issue since ireland has submitted a complete set of up-to-date waste management plans.
furthermore, in 2000, the court of justice imposed its first financial penalty in a case concerning waste management.
commissioner, i received your letter today after your visit to ireland, but the last point you raised, which your letter failed to address, relates to the lack of resources in the legal unit of the environment directorate to deal with complaints.
at the same time environmental damage continues.
in relation to waste, the problem with ireland is that it is failing to comply with the waste directive.
that council has been suspected of being involved in dumping in some of these illegal sites and the epa, the body responsible for protecting the environment, has actually granted a waste licence to one of these illegal sites.
in the light of the failure of the irish authorities to comply with eu directives, particularly in relation to waste, is there any possibility that the commission might consider sending in an independent team to investigate the damage that is being done and the irregularities present in relation to waste in this area in particular?
i have made a complaint to you regarding the illegal waste dumps found in wicklow.
the extent to which biodiversity impacts on the lives of all citizens and the quality or otherwise of their lives makes this debate extremely important.
the role of farmers as guarantors of sustainable and quality food supply must be brought more into focus, because we ignore at our peril the fact that agriculture is a commercial activity.
the unique role of farmers as environmental managers must also be fully recognised, appreciated and rewarded.
from a biodiversity viewpoint, the role of farmers and the preservation of family-based farm units are important.
biodiversity and sustainable development will not happen if they are planned out of the equation.
in short, and in conclusion, we must adopt a practical approach which safeguards biodiversity, while, at the same time, acknowledging the professional and commercial role of farmers.
- my group has always worked for a safer working environment for all workers and we have in the past strongly supported realistic initiatives to this end.
like many other members, we were very concerned about the content of this report, particularly with regard to the high requirements for employers and the questionable levels of emissions.
the rapporteur's suggestion that kitchen and table waste be exempted from the provisions of these regulations on transport, identification, etc., and that it be covered by national regulations and the framework directive on waste, should be highly appreciated.
as regards the question of waste water from slaughterhouses, i think that this provision should be reviewed because it concerns a huge amount of material to be disposed of.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the ordinary people of colombia live and suffer in an environment of oppression caused not only by these paramilitary and guerrilla groups, but often at the hands of a government which is either unwilling or unable to protect them.
in order to simplify and improve the regulatory environment - in other words, to identify how to improve the legislative process and governance within the eu - i suggested to the presidency that all our institutions - parliament, council and commission - could benefit from a new and more mature dialogue perspective.
as regards the barcelona european council, i would like to refer to the question of the council and its environment.
when we talk about transport or energy, or jobs, or saving and investment or research, or education, we are always talking about citizens.
there are issues which are obviously fundamental: one is to maintain the correct orientation decided by the european council in lisbon, which is the strategy of reform, the strategy of openness, the strategy of liberalization, to which we obviously add the objective of sustainable development.
it is a remarkable change from an energy point of view.
finally, i would like to say that from the point of view of what the balancing process means, the compromise of balance between the three pillars of the lisbon strategy, economic growth and reforms, employment and sustainable development, we can, in my view, be reasonably satisfied.
my response to barcelona is one of relief that the hype about liberalisation and privatisation was in fact just hype, that the balance of political power on the council still remains with the centre-left, with the common sense to know that the people of europe want a social europe as well as a market europe, and that the balance between social policy and economic policy, of employment policy and sustainability needs to be maintained.
i welcome this news, particularly in the present climate of political hostilities in various parts of the world.
the european union has international relationships and programmes in many fields covering, for example, energy, environment, economic cooperation, human rights, justice and home affairs, external assistance programmes and so on.
we also took initiatives such as the energy for democracy programme in serbia, which had explicitly political, as well as economic and humanitarian objectives.
we welcome the participation in that group of carlos westendorp, chairman of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, and of karl von wogau.
we will therefore do everything possible to ensure that the un security council resolution is implemented and that from there we can find a ceasefire that will enable us to begin a political process leading to the goal of two states, two democratic states with secure borders that can live together in the environment of the countries of the region, which have already offered in beirut a contractual peace with israel.
i have been working towards this since the madrid conference many years ago, and i hope to continue working until i have energy and strength.
this will mean that electric and electronic waste will have to be collected and recycled instead of dumped – as in my own country – with negative effects on the environment.
such producers should be rewarded for designing to reduce waste at competitive prices.
the loosely-framed common position must be tightened up to discourage free-riders who do not take responsibility for their own waste.
here i welcome the amendment on orphan waste products.
– mr president, i have worked very closely with my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and i feel that this compromise package of amendments, which we are going to vote on today, is the best outcome we could have hoped for on integrated coastal zone management.
i would also like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the committee on the environment who supported the compromise package and the council for recognising the importance of this compromise and for putting the recommendation on coreper's agenda at very short notice.
the international federation of chemical, energy, mine and general workers' unions called on oil and gas companies to cease investment in burma while the use of forced labour continues.
i would also like to make a special reference in this chapter to the measures to promote investment in infrastructure and the interconnection of the transport, telecommunications and energy networks of our mediterranean partners with the transeuropean networks, and i would like to thank the commission again for the enormous and very positive work it has done.
it was a model statement which was at once calm and rational and strong and balanced, outlining the situation as it exists and the steps that are necessary on all sides to create a sustainable peace in the region.
mr president, i just want to remind mr chichester, apropos of the earlier exchange on sellafield, that my constituents along the east coast of ireland, and in particular county louth, are very concerned about emissions from sellafield, especially marine emissions in carlingford lough which are rising steadily.
bnfl were present at a hearing in the european parliament in april and had to confirm under cross-examination from me that emissions were currently rising from sellafield.
indeed, we heard at the hearing of the impact on the isle of wight of emissions from cap de la hague.
in particular, i welcome the funding for sustainability and renewable energy in this programme.
the right balance needs to be struck: protecting the natural beauty, heritage and environment that make a region so attractive, while making the most of these natural assets to improve the local economy.
in mexico, as in europe, the exercise of democracy involves the convergence of very diverse efforts; the joint work of different political forces, individuals and non-governmental organizations, businessmen and public servants, directed towards a common goal: the sustained and sustainable development of our nation, within a framework of unrestricted adherence to the law.
(applause) the promotion of democracy as the best form of government, respect for human rights and the promotion of sustained and sustainable development of the peoples are an essential part of the foreign policy of mexico that my government is pursuing.
in a world of interdependence, only by joining forces will we succeed in these and other fields, such as protecting the environment, combating drug trafficking and the illicit trade in arms, cultural goods or people, fighting extreme poverty and fully implementing the rules of international law.
how can the commission claim to advocate a safer working environment for fishermen and crew members while at the same time penalising the owners of the vessels who want to carry out measures to improve safety on board?
in simple terms, if you want to put a whaleback on a vessel to protect the crew and create a safer environment, you are now penalised.
mr president, while the greens fully support the efforts of the commission to create a sustainable fisheries policy within the eu, we reject any attempt to simply transfer our problems to the developing world.
commissioner fischler has stated that the eu must work for sustainable fishing wherever eu fleets operate and we shall hold him to that goal.
this report contains provisions for the listing and phasing out of environmentally harmful subsidies and for environmental taxes at appropriate national or community level.
the improved management and use of natural resources as well as waste management is an essential step if we are to establish a more sustainable production method and pattern of consumption.
the programme supports a reform of subsidies which have had an adverse climate effect.
it clarifies the target for holding climate change by stricter reduction targets in the second period of the kyoto protocol.
it also seeks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from industrial production by providing incentives with the development of environmentally friendly, benign alternatives.
madam president, access to environmental information is a fundamental right and i am glad that the rapporteur has sought to restrict the use of confidentiality.
it requests member states to create publicly accessible databases where environmental documents would be held.
it has indeed disappointed some of the citizens' organisations active in this field, because amendments were not sustained by parliament on social and environmental reports on all levels of company and supply chain, on ethical pension funds and their investment policies, on the creation of multi-stakeholder platforms which include business, trade unions, ngos, public authorities and those from development countries.
in relation to cmr substances, which are allowed in cosmetics, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy reaffirmed its first reading request to ban cmrs in cosmetics unless evaluated and accepted as safe by the scientific committee.
i want to ask the commission if it agrees with me that in the present climate, when the european commission is being put into a position of banning so many products and processes – even research itself in some instances – it is extremely important that what we do is seen to be soundly based and reliable.
firstly, with regard to sustainable tourism, obviously tourism is best dealt with where you have human populations.
the euratom atomic energy community was founded in 1957 and is now well past its sell-by date.
the nuclear fusion budget remains the largest single area – eur 750 million – of energy research and proposes funds allocated to the development of the next generation of fusion research.
therefore the fusion budget is a financial black hole in pursuit of an ever-receding holy grail of fusion energy.
despite around half a century of commercial operation of nuclear reactors, the solution to the long-term management of nuclear waste remains unsolved.
the framework programme for additional funds to research geological disposal of radioactive waste means that eu-funded research for what is effectively a commercial waste problem represents yet another subsidy to the nuclear industry.
the presidency intends to present a report on the state of play of the work on the fiscal package, which covers a number of initiatives on taxation of savings, energy taxation and cooperation with tax administrations.
other issues pending at the barcelona european council and to be addressed by the seville council are: simplification and improvement of regulation - known as 'better regulation'; economic services of general interest - the commission will also present the report it has been asked to do; energy supply - on which it will present another report -; telecommunications, education, research; the outermost regions and sustainable development.
the european council also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we must move forward with our legislative work through wider consultation with all stakeholders and through a more thorough analysis of the economic, social and environmental impact, in line with the decisions of the gothenburg european council, and we must do so without creating unnecessary procedural complications.
this is primarily because of the catastrophic environmental damage caused by the sinking of the oil tanker erika off the coast of france about two years ago.
the new agency will provide the eu member states and the european commission with the technical and scientific support needed to effectively implement community law in the field of maritime safety and to prevent pollution from ships.
we have already conceived, together with the commission and the general secretariat of the council, the idea of starting to think about a working group on the drafting of the accession treaty, so that its drafting and the corresponding annexes will run parallel to the negotiations so that, when the negotiations are over, we will not have to waste time drafting the treaty, because we all know, and parliament in particular, the difficulties that exist in the national ratification processes.
this good climate of understanding is due in large part to the efforts of president pat cox.
this summit will be an opportunity to meet our objectives of fighting poverty and environmental degradation, and to boost the development of the least developed countries.
these goals will be a reality if, in johannesburg, we adopt a balanced view of all the facets of sustainable development.
the seville european council therefore highlighted, among other things, the efforts made by the union to promote initiatives in the field of water, energy and health and to play a leading role, from a constructive point of view, in johannesburg.
we are well aware of the difficulty of these challenges and we must give due credit to the spanish presidency which, over the last six months, has had the task of guiding the union in tackling all these problems, problems which it has tackled with energy and wisdom.
the scientific fact, however, of genetic engineering is that this technology has already improved the quality of life for so many, and with a balanced and practical regulatory environment, it has an exciting future in the whole pharmaceutical, medical, food and feed areas, to name but a few.
both publications refer to the rife report (radioactivity in food and the environment) issued by the uk food standards agency and the scottish environmental protection agency.
references to tritium releases into the marine environment and to the issue of organically-bound tritium are included in the marina ii study on the radiological exposure of the european community from radioactivity in north european marine waters.
the agenda calls for a decision on the conflict of competence between the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy with regard to the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on environmental liability for the prevention and remedying of environmental damage (com (2002) 17 - c5-0088/2002 - 2002/0021 (cod)).
after a long period of negotiations which did not lead to a satisfactory outcome for both committees, the conference of presidents decided at its meeting on 13 june to submit the proposal to the committee on legal affairs and the internal market in the light of its powers and responsibilities, provided that the strengthened hugues procedure was applied between the legal affairs committee and the environment committee.
the environment committee is contesting this decision and is asking that the matter be referred to the assembly in accordance with rule 154 (2) of the rules of procedure, which it is perfectly entitled to do under the existing rules.
it is the only credible and sustainable way forward.
the purpose of seafo is to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable use of fisheries resources in the south-east atlantic, beyond the national jurisdiction of angola, namibia and south africa.
we are not making fair rules when we further jeopardise the precarious situation of families and communities for whom the fishing sector is the only source of local employment while at the same time we do nothing against the excesses of industrial fishing, especially when we claim to be making policy based on sustainable development and the just protection of the environment.
the irish sea is already highly radioactive as a result of the emission of waste from sellafield into the irish sea.
they are an environmental hazard to the high seas and to coastal states.
a5-0261/2002 by mrs corbey, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste (com (2001) 729 - c5-0664/2001 - 2001/0291 (cod)).
mr president, after a delay of one year the european commission's proposal to amend the packaging and packaging waste directive is finally before us.
i very much welcome the improvements made and hope that they will help in our efforts to reduce waste within the european union.
it is extremely regrettable, however, that member state governments are so unwilling to put the environment before big business, in particular in light of the rhetoric on sustainable development we have heard from johannesburg over the past week.
secondly, prevention and reuse of packaging waste should be increased to reduce its environmental impact.
waste prevention must be the first priority of the eu's waste policy and yet too little is done about it.
reuse systems have been shown to be beneficial to the environment, provided a minimum number of reuse cycles is achieved and transport distances are not too great.
according to waste management strategy, recycling is environmentally more beneficial than recovery and, in my opinion, 'recovery' is just another word for incineration – a polluting activity with significant environmental and health impacts.
the commission is saying that member states 'shall encourage energy recovery'.
it does not want to solve the waste problem, it wants to burn it!
we have also proposed that exports of packaging waste to non-eu countries should not count towards the achievement of the targets.
exports of packaging wastes are currently unregulated and are in violation of the requirements of annex 2 of the basel convention on the control of transboundary movement of waste if they pose a significant threat to the development of environmentally sound recycling infrastructure for packaging waste in the eu and exacerbate the waste problem in the importing country.
at least some of the packaging waste currently exported from the eu is processed in operations that are harmful to human health and the environment, or landfilled instead of recycled, which should not be encouraged.
current recycling rates of pvc packaging are less than 3% in the eu and all of it is down-cycling, which produces inferior quality with no environmental or economic benefits.
in 1997, 58 million tonnes of packaging waste was produced.
i find it completely incomprehensible that my own country, ireland – a country where the living standards are almost the highest in europe and which has a booming economy – wants an exemption for its waste problems.
mr president, in the context of johannesburg and the commitments to sustainability by the eu, it should not be too much to ask this parliament to give concrete expression to sustainability, particularly in requiring that the principle of producer responsibility and the internalisation of external costs be enshrined in the current review.
we have already agreed this in the case of the electronic and electrical waste directive.
mr president, as we debate the revision of targets set in the 1994 packaging directive, in an effort to reduce the eu's growing mountain of packaging waste, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs corbey and the shadow rapporteur mrs ayuso gonzález, for their hard work in this very important area.
the consultants engaged to assist the commission in setting the revised targets, rdc-environment and pira international, assumed a number of underlying principles which do not apply to some member states, such as greece, portugal and ireland.
i believe that the eu environment ministers appear to have already reached a 'common orientation' on this directive in june 2002. they called for a deadline of 2012 for portugal, greece and ireland.
on 4 march 2002, our environment minister introduced a plastic bag tax in ireland, 15% per bag.
finally, in terms of the principles i would apply to this area, safety is the first priority, environmental sustainability the second and efficiency the third.
the convention provides that any state has the right to prohibit the importation into its territory of spent fuel and radioactive waste of foreign origin.
this should also apply to the coastal waters of the irish sea, which are already dangerously polluted by such waste.
finally, i would like to say to mr swoboda and mrs echerer and others who have mentioned sustainable development, as i myself did in my first speech on prevention, that we do not have european competence in spatial planning.
our responsibility is to ensure, as with the appropriations managed under the structural funds, that the appropriations we are going to allocate under the overall envelopes with this fund are used on the ground, in compliance with the environmental directives, with the requirement of sustainable development and, perhaps, with an additional requirement, from now on, in terms of prevention.
this may be the case for appropriations committed under agenda 2000-2006. i promise you that in the proposals i will make on behalf of the commission for future regional policy after 2006, the emphasis will be on this obligation to take account, in terms of prevention, of the risk of natural and ecological disasters for future programming documents in each of the regions which will receive appropriations.
surely, through the council and the good offices of the minister himself, there must be some mechanism whereby that energy and that idealism can be harnessed for the good of all of society and not just for the good of the few.
- i voted in favour of the bakopoulos report in order to ensure maritime safety and prevent pollution from ships.
i support the proposal to establish a committee on maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships because it incorporates a large number of parliament's proposals.
- i voted in favour of mr goodwill's report because it will be an additional aid in environmental protection.
the proposal extends the scope of the existing directives 70/156/eec and 80/1268/eec on the measurement of carbon dioxide emissions and fuel consumption.
i hope that measuring the fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions of these vehicles will enable us to develop potential measures to improve vehicle performance in these areas.
in order to ensure european typeapproval for light commercial vehicles, the directive will stipulate that in future the carbon dioxide emissions and fuel consumption of vehicles will be controlled.
member states will not be able to allow the registration and entry into service of light commercial vehicles if they do not have a certificate of conformity valid for this type of approval after 1 january 2007. finally, both the environment and drivers have a stake in this proposal if carbon monoxide can be measured and reduced and vehicle performance can be improved.
the attempt by the council to shave eur 275 million off market expenditure in such hard-hit sectors as arable crops, milk, beef and mutton and lamb is completely out of order under the current climate.
farming needs to be made an attractive career prospect and if we are to bring young qualified people into the profession, a failure to do so will lead to further depopulation of rural areas to the point where certain rural communities will no longer be sustainable.
ireland suffers doubly from safety problems, road congestion and environmental damage.
it has been found that an environmental impact assessment study which has been necessary to qualify for eu funds is seriously flawed.
i am calling on the commission to intervene urgently to have the construction of this road stopped until a full review is carried out as to why the environmental impact study did not identify this major archaeological site when it was identified by a state-sponsored organisation, an foras forbartha, in 1983. this is a major issue that needs to be addressed as a matter of urgency by the commission.
- (en) now that the summit is over, the essential work of implementing sustainable development must continue.
he believes that the summit will make a significant difference in key areas such as water and energy.
within the eu, we know that we can achieve much more by pooling our resources and setting common standards, as well as by tackling environmental issues with cross-border implications.
it has presented a very ambitious timetable for sustainable development.
the summit failed to achieve a satisfactory result in relation to the objective of increasing the share of renewable energy in world energy production.
it is an initiative which actually arises in the context of the green paper debate and which is also a response to both the wishes of parliament and the council's conclusions, which called for action to improve energy efficiency, particularly in buildings, with the aim of exploiting the potential for energy savings.
we are talking, as mr vidal-quadras very well said, about 40% of total energy consumption in europe, and according to our analyses and studies, there is a potential for improving efficiency of around 22%; that is to say, we are talking, in terms of the overall energy mix, about a potential for improvement of close to 8%.
in this sense, we all - parliament, the council and the commission - consider this to be one of the key proposals, precisely in order to try to meet our international commitments, and in particular the kyoto commitments on greenhouse gas emissions.
the commission proposal simply seeks the adoption by the member states of a common methodology for the energy performance of buildings.
secondly, the establishment of minimum energy performance requirements and their application to new buildings as a general rule with some minor exceptions and to existing buildings of more than 1,000 square metres when they are subject to major renovations.
in addition, the certification of the energy performance of buildings at the time of their construction, sale or rental, because there is also a very important component from the point of view of the rights of consumers who rent an apartment, a house or a building, without knowing what the real cost of maintaining it will be in the end.
this will contribute to an improvement in energy efficiency in the european union in an effective way, in the light of our international commitments.
we have aimed at the target of improved energy efficiency in buildings for some years, in the climate change programme amongst others.
in general, community programmes have failed to result in the actual application of standards of energy efficiency in many member states, so this directive, although modest, is indeed a step forward, a building block, if you like.
finally, i would like to add my voice to those who plea that we do something realistic about energy savings in parliament buildings and in eu buildings in general.
this is the first piece of legislation proposed by the commission since the signing of the kyoto protocol which combines pollution control with savings of eur 1.3 billion in the annual costs of our kyoto commitments.
i believe that the environment committee has in this instance made a valuable contribution to the original commission proposal.
where the original proposal was limited to co2, i am pleased that we in parliament are more ambitious and intend to extend the scope of application to all other greenhouse gases.
as lime and dolime can only be produced by removing existing co2 from limestone and dolomite, there is no way of reducing the co2 emissions.
for this reason, my group has tabled an amendment which proposes excluding lime and dolime production from the gas emissions trading scheme.
in conclusion, i would make a general comment about the contribution of the eu to improving environmental awareness and protection.
as an irish member, i am all too aware that the overwhelming majority of environmental legislation, as well as attitude changes, are a direct result of our membership of the european union.
mr president, this directive underlines the seriousness of our intent to come to terms with greenhouse gases.
the question of whether participation in the emissions trading scheme provided for under this directive should be mandatory in the pilot phase has been the subject of much debate in member states, including ireland.
the environmental and industrial perspectives are quite different and we need to find the right balance.
the desire from an environmental perspective for a wholly mandatory regime must fit well with market considerations and be industry-friendly.
it makes sense to accept a scheme that is mandatory at the level of member states as all states must participate in the effort to reduce emissions.
of course, any installation opting out must be required to take equivalent action to reduce emissions.
on tuesday, 70 members' amendments having been tabled to mrs grossetête's report a5-340/02 on a community code relating to medicinal products for human use, which add to the 132 amendments contained in the report itself, i asked the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the basis of rule 130a and after consulting its chairman, to meet to consider the amendments.
a majority of member states are now well placed to allow fiscal policy to play its countercyclical role in the current economic climate, when growth is forecast to be slower than expected at the beginning of the year.
indeed, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, i have come to expect representations from many organisations across the board.
i would ask the commissioner to take on board the compromise suggested by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, which gets the balance right in this area, because the commission proposal has caused major problems in many countries, particularly the uk and ireland.
amendment no 65 is necessary, as it ties this principle, which was endorsed by the committee on the environment's amendment no 10, to the passport decision 2000/68/eec, which amends decision 93/623/eec.
in the current climate of depressed prices and policy uncertainty, we are going to place our farmers at a further disadvantage.
it does no harm to remind ourselves – and i do not say that for any selfish reason – that the eu's commitment to sustainability of family farming, both in existing member states and for new entrants, is facing considerable difficulties.
the fact that 1.2 billion people living in the rural areas of developing countries live in poverty is a shocking indictment of the developed world, but equally the long-term development and sustainability of third world economies depend on our efforts and – hopefully – success in helping them to develop and add value to their natural resources, with corresponding measures to assist with market access for their products.
as regards agricultural and rural development, the eu and developing countries have the same objective of developing a multifunctional form of agriculture with increasing emphasis on rural development and the sustainability of rural communities.
we will increase the guarantees that the problem of nuclear waste will have a solution, at least in terms of its proper containment and storage, with maximum periods.
they tell me about renewable energy.
i would just like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that my first proposal was to promote electricity generation from renewable sources - something which has not been done before - with quantified targets for the various member states.
i have put forward several proposals on energy efficiency, in particular one on buildings, which is very ambitious.
i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that i have not in any way neglected the question of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
but that does not mean that we should not improve the safety of nuclear installations - not only power stations, but also university, research and all kinds of facilities - throughout the european union and improve the information and safety of waste management in the european union in all its aspects.
as regards the problem of unfair competition in the internal electricity market, article 11 and the corresponding annex clearly state that decommissioning funds may only be used for the expressly stated purposes, that is to say, to decommission the energy installations concerned in due course, which is unfortunately not the case today in several countries of the union, but these funds are included in the general stock, in the general accounts, of the companies and can therefore be used for any operational purpose.
we are not going to put ourselves under pressure, but i am not going to waste time discussing with anyone where a summit should be held.
i don't want to waste time on this.
in the light of the exceptional circumstances and in the absence of the rapporteur for opinion, mrs malliori, i would like the committee on the environment to ensure that someone who was present at the debates and voted in committee can be in charge of giving us a reasonable account of the committee's viewpoint this evening in the debate.
(parliament approved the request) on thursday i received a request from the group of the european people's party and european democrats and the group of the greens/european free alliance to include on the agenda of this part-session a commission statement on the application of the erika package on maritime safety following the oil tanker sinking off the coast of galicia and the measures to be taken to alleviate the effects of these socioeconomic and ecological disasters.
(parliament approved the request) as regards the report by mr maaten, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, tabled for the voting time at 12 noon pursuant to rule 110a, i have received a written objection from the green group/european free alliance to the application of this procedure.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
in the current economic climate, citizens are rightly asking what the union will do to boost growth and jobs.
the underlying objective is to make public finances more sound and more sustainable.
in other words, we must respond concretely to the great hopes that the world places in us for an intelligent and open management of environmental, trade and development problems.
it is clear from what i have said that economic, social and environmental aspects are now woven into a single fabric in the formulation and implementation of our policies.
the commission will therefore start next year to carry out the subsidiarity and proportionality analyses, as we have undertaken to do, for some 40 selected proposals and will study the economic, social and environmental consequences.
mr president, while welcoming the programme presented to us today i must express some alarm that on page 12, under 'key initiatives – sustainable and inclusive economy', the mountain has laboured and made a promise to produce a green paper on public services or services of economic interest.
as you and the commissioner have said, they worked in a particularly sensitive political and security environment at great personal risk to themselves.
in the current climate, it is right that we should do what we are proposing now.
as has been said, this 8th conference of the parties to the climate change convention in new delhi was intended to be a transitional one – more a matter of keeping the momentum going on the climate change debate than making headline political decisions.
the title was changed from 'the declaration on climate change' to 'declaration on climate change and sustainability'.
it is very hard to talk about these issues, be objective and keep the focus on climate change if it is suggested that sustainable development is not included.
how can you justify what you are saying if you do not include sustainable development?
the americans and others used the serious issue of sustainable development to divert focus from climate change and from the kyoto protocol requirements in general.
the commission proposal is based on the principle of sustainable development and the poor state of fishery resources.
these proposals are imperfect and will not achieve the goal of sustainable development.
legislation on catering waste, animal transport, animal welfare, surveillance and disease control must be properly implemented and monitored.
the fastest growing type of waste today is waste from electrical or electronic products.
the average european produces about 14 kg of this kind of waste every year.
these new directives are important milestones which mean that it will be easier to deal with the future environmental problems that our waste may cause, by allowing us to sort out this type of equipment for reuse and recovery, and thus also reduce its potentially dangerous effects.
the new directives will oblige member states to ensure that waste electrical and electronic equipment is collected separately from other waste.
a number of hazardous substances will be phased out throughout the community from 1 july 2006, which means that many problems in the waste chain can be avoided before they arise.
this is an important step for environmental policy.
waste from electronic and electrical equipment is now one of the fastest growing waste streams in the european union.
electronic and electrical equipment is one of the largest known sources of heavy metals and organic pollutants in the waste stream.
the need for business to adapt to a changing agenda, taking more account of environmental concerns, is becoming more widely accepted.
indeed business and the environmental ngos have been on the same wavelength during this process, which is not always the case.
the objective of the epr is to make producers financially responsible for their products when these become waste so an upstream effect is created which leads to design for the environment, taking account of the durability, repairability or upgrading, disassembly or recycling of the product.
in addition there is reuse of resources and separate collection, and hazardous substances contained in the weee are prevented from entering the environment.
costs of disposal, which up to now have been borne by local authorities, usually as part of waste disposal, are now to be internalised and provision made for the reuse, recycling and demanufacture of this equipment.
hence the ultimate aim is waste prevention, thus sustainability.
the restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances, on the one hand, and the prevention of waste electrical and electronic equipment on the other is what we are talking about here in the two directives before us.
it is interesting to know that it will grow three times faster than the average municipal waste by 2010 – quite a frightening concept.
because of its hazardous content, electrical and electronic equipment causes environmental problems during the waste management process if it is not properly treated, sorted, separated, recycled, reused, contaminants removed etc.
i noticed that at conciliation the views concerned were unanimous – and that includes views from ireland, portugal, greece and other countries whose waste network and recycling systems are much less developed than in some countries in the eu.
knowing the state of 'underdevelopment' of recycling and waste management in my own country, ireland, for example, i sincerely hope they mean what they say in agreeing to this directive and i fully support the fact that they have done so.
in relation to the weee directive, one of the issues that caused most angst among industry was the handling of historic waste: who would pay for it and so on.
let us be sure that technologically we are able to replace with a safer product, as far as the environment is concerned, what we are about to ban.
they sustain environmental sustainability.
they are a key component of any serious spatial strategy which will enable us to have sustainable rural communities and indeed liveable cities.