mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the house is now voting on the directive on public procurement, supplies and services and on the directive on special sectors, namely water, energy and transport services.
this poses a twofold problem: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
another important issue is related to environmental and social aspects.
the commission proposal already contains appropriate references to ensure that all the principles relating to the environment and workers' rights are respected when drawing up the call for tenders.
the progressive liberalization of water, energy and transport matters, which the commission will be monitoring directly or at the request of individual member states, will make the second directive obsolete without having to amend the first.
however, amendments are needed to introduce more strongly social, environmental and equal treatment criteria in the procedures.
the amendments i am proposing aim to strengthen the role of contracting authorities in the quality control of contractors and underline the importance of the environmental impact assessment of public and private projects.
in particular, the new amendments by the european parliament call for more decisive and more stringent action against the dangers of pesticides - this applies both to the present member states and to those awaiting accession - but also for a substantial commitment against the greenhouse effect, the rampant noise pollution that afflicts us everywhere and at all times, the all too frequent ecological disasters caused by human negligence, disasters for which it is then, more and more often, difficult to find out, to find out who is responsible.
- mr president, this report traces the difficult paths which should link the necessary increase in the production of consumer goods and services with the requirements of environmental protection.
every product has a life cycle that begins the moment it is made available to the consumer, who, by using it, immediately puts it in relation to its environmental sustainability, a somewhat difficult term but one that everyone understands today.
this is where the most delicate environmental repercussions arise, because not all products are disposable with the same technology, nor do they all have the same degree of hazard or the same level of biodegradability.
i mean, a watchful eye for those who are committed to helping the environment, to helping us.
- report (a5-0457/2001) by mr lavarra, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the elements of a strategy for integrating environmental protection requirements into the common fisheries policy (com (2001) 143 - c5-0343/2001 - 2001/2143 (cos)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the definition of a strategy to improve the integration of environmental protection requirements into the common fisheries policy is a priority requirement and therefore the commission deserves our appreciation for having prepared this communication.
the integration of environmental needs into the common policy must be done in a way that is shared by the sector, without the costs being borne solely and exclusively by the sector itself, especially when it comes to small fisheries, especially when the sector is the victim of forms of pollution of the marine environment caused by external factors: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the coastal industry.
i also believe that the integration of environmental requirements must be based on scientific principles and we hope to have precise data from the commission soon on the basis of the research that is being carried out.
in fact, when the commission refers to the interaction between fisheries and the environment, it sometimes merely emphasises the negative ecological effects of fisheries, while neglecting positive environmental measures that could benefit the fisheries sector: improvement of coastal areas, creation of re-population and nursery areas, marine protected areas, enhancement of fisheries-tourism and, more generally, investment in research.
(applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, i voted in favour of mr davies' report on the amount of ozone in the air.
"there was a paper i wrote on ozone in the air.
he thinks that with the codecision and that regulation we should now, in 2030, after 30 years, have to present a new report on the new measurement to be observed for ozone in the air.
- madam president, we have approved the sixth environmental programme, and i voted in favour of it.
because this was an ideal city, because the environment was beautiful: i am not going to go into the details of the amendments, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to amend the proposal.
it was the ideal city environment.
- madam president, mr zappalà kept me up all night because i did not know whether to vote for or against an important amendment which states whether in these procurement procedures account should be taken of the achievement of important environmental objectives and important social welfare and security objectives, that is, whether, when contracting for works, public bodies should prefer the firms which are more advanced and which protect citizens and workers more in the field of the environment and in the field of social security and pensions.
i voted in favour after much effort and suffering, but i hope that in the next european directives and regulations, the whole of europe's environmental and social legislation will be regulated much more and better, and in the interests of citizens and workers.
- madam president, it is a pity that mr zappalà has left the chamber at this very moment, but i am sure he will be informed that i voted yes for this document which relates to the procurement of water, energy and transport services, but i hope that the next report on this subject will also stipulate that the elderly and pensioners - who need a lot of water, a lot of energy and who often use public transport - will have free water, free energy supply in their homes for heating and cooking and free public transport services, because certainly the elderly and pensioners have worked a lot, they have earned a lot and they have the right to expect a thank you from society.
- madam president, we are trying to circulate products which are safe for the environment and for the citizens who consume them.
the aim here is to save from extinction the cod and hake species which are declining year by year as a result of marine pollution.
the report by mr lavarra suggests that this can be achieved if fish live in a clean environment.
i know that many fish are organizing to have the green party of fish, because fish have the right to a clean environment as we have.
the contribution made by our group, the epp, is focused on the need for greater complementarity and, in particular, as also expressed in amendments nos 15 and 16 proposed by mr mantovani, for better coordination of the various measures, in order to achieve greater efficiency and better results in the action of linking and coordinating aid, rehabilitation and development; in particular, appropriate ex post coordination and evaluation methods, budgetary control and less bureaucratic interference are required to further ensure that union development aid reaches countries in crisis, and thus the people who really need it, in a precise and effective manner and without waste of time, duplication or unnecessary overlap of efforts or financial resources invested.
- madam president, in the last parliament the committee on agriculture was the main body dealing with this problem, whereas now it is the committee on the environment.
(the sitting was suspended at 12.25 p.m. and resumed at 12.30 p.m.)
mr president, i voted in favour of the very important report by mr vidal-quadras on energy saving measures, particularly in the case of residential buildings, where heating costs are the biggest burden on the citizens of the european union.
- this report has talked about climate change and what we need to do to get cleaner air.
their success would certainly be the decisive signal for further accelerating action in favour of sustainable development more generally.
infrastructure investment is needed to overcome the territorial challenges and the peripherality of islands and outermost regions; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve accessibility, which is a decisive factor in competitiveness, without incurring excessive costs in the environmental sector.
i personally believe that we must continue to pursue this objective with a consistent, constant and sustainable policy.
fourthly, the problem of returning illiterates, which affects the elderly in particular and those at risk of social exclusion - especially when they lose their independence and are forced to rely on protected structures, leaving their family and socio-cultural environment permanently - is a scourge to be fought.
the committee on social affairs, employment and the working environment has also expressed its concern about the situation in the european union, and has called for the commission to take action to combat illiteracy.
this is today's russia, mr putin's russia, the russia of mr putin's friend mr oostlander, who had us vote on a report on russia - which i did not vote for - in which, line by line, paragraph by paragraph, we approved the funding of programmes for the media, for media freedom, for independent justice, for environmental protection.
that is the policy of the european union: we finance the fight to protect the environment and, at the same time, we must fight to get environmental activists out of prison, and so on.
- mr president, the barcelona european council may be a great deal, but it will not be the occasion to test the implementation of the sustainable development strategy that was envisaged in gothenburg: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the spanish presidency's desire to return to the initial philosophy of lisbon and to reaffirm the three sacred values of liberalization, deregulation and neoliberal globalisation was matched by the commission's apparent lack of determination to pursue the laudable proposals that had been put forward last year and the explicit acceptance of making the environmental pillar a kind of almost clandestine addendum to the barcelona agenda.
it seems to us that in its communication to the barcelona european council the commission pays insufficient attention to the environmental aspect and to the adjustments which would be necessary to the present model of economic development.
it is in this context that we believe that the acceleration which the spanish presidency is seeking to give to the process of liberalization in the most diverse areas is in direct conflict with the strategy for sustainable development.
we have many doubts about the model of governance of the economy and society based on deregulation, flexibility and further liberalisation of the internal market, as confirmed recently in the joint declaration of blair and berlusconi, in which the words 'sustainable development' do not appear at all.
and this seems particularly sad in view of the meeting scheduled for johannesburg, where all the world's heads of state will be meeting to take stock of the state of the environment ten years from rio de janeiro.
we believe that the barcelona summit should be a moment to make some significant progress in integrating environmental issues into the whole of the european union's policies, and to this end it is essential to evaluate and examine all the sectoral strategies.
i would like to dwell for a moment, mr president, on the question of energy efficiency, on which there are obviously still many problems and on which it seems important to us, once again, to stress the importance of renewable energy, in addition to the fact that, of course, the growing pressure, also exerted above all by the spanish presidency, to reopen the debate on nuclear energy, is absolutely against us because it is dangerous and anachronistic, both from the point of view of social acceptance and from the point of view of environmental sustainability.
in conclusion, mr president, we fear that barcelona will be a missed opportunity for the achievement of the agreed sustainable development goals.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, commissioners, i fully agree with the guidelines set out in mr bullmann's report, and particularly with the reference to certain objectives adopted in lisbon in the light of a vision of the welfare state which takes it not as an auxiliary appendage to economic policy but as an essential factor in a policy of sustainable development towards full employment and an improvement in the quality of work.
but even more worrying are the signs of a slowdown in the construction of a policy mix that brings together the coordination of economic policies for sustainable development and that of employment and social cohesion policies, stimulating a new season of social dialogue.
- mr president, i personally regarded as a fundamental step forward the decision taken in gothenburg to integrate the environmental dimension into the lisbon process.
i shall simply mention the three main reasons for this pessimism, which i hope will be refuted: the first is the slow pace at which the environmental dimension is being brought into line with the economic and social dimension, as evidenced by the partiality of the indicators developed to date to assess progress.
secondly, the still too closed way in which the lisbon and gothenburg strategy is being managed, without the necessary involvement of the european parliament but also of the regional authorities and the social partners; thirdly, the delay which the community institutions, including parliament, are accumulating in adapting themselves to the idea of sustainable development, an idea which does not allow for stagnant compartments and conflicts of competence.
these requirements are clearly stated both in the bullmann report and in the draft resolution discussed in the committee on the environment, and i therefore fully support them.
no energy supply route can pass through the caucasus.
the commission forgets that the caucasus is the gateway to central asia, which is the major energy supplier of tomorrow.
as you know, the international conference on financing for development in monterrey will be held immediately, the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg will be held in september and we must define our position on both issues.
while acknowledging that globalisation has many other facets, including the social and environmental dimension, the report focuses primarily on the international financial and monetary system and the problems of financing development.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union is well placed to play a leading role in promoting sustainable global development.
in addition, as part of its commitment to protecting the environment, it is developing and promoting the use and dissemination of environmentally friendly technologies both within and outside europe.
the european integration model has been developed along the lines of mutually supportive strategies for stable economic growth, social development and environmental protection.
building on these achievements and in view of the forthcoming world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg, the commission has drawn up the communication towards a partnership for sustainable development.
it is intended to identify the strategic components that form the basis of a global deal for johannesburg, with a view to getting all partners, both north and south, to work together towards sustainable development.
the communication underlines several key priorities and makes concrete proposals for action in the economic, social and environmental fields.
finally, as regards the overall protection of the environment, the commission proposes to launch an initiative on sustainable water management.
we have committed ourselves to pressing our partners to achieve a 50% replenishment of the global environment facility by april 2002 and to extend its mandate.
we are promoting the implementation of multilateral environmental agreements, including the ratification of the kyoto protocol, which member states have already done earlier this month.
ladies and gentlemen, building a sustainable future for the world requires the collaboration of all.
great leaders felt vulnerable and opened their minds to issues like debt, poverty, sustainable development.
we must, as a union, be innovative and non-conformist in at least three areas: the first is the issue of sustainable development.
the johannesburg summit is coming up: we are not satisfied with the initiatives that the commission is taking in this area and we are concerned that in barcelona sustainable development will not even be touched, if only in an absolutely marginal way.
today, we are studying how the liberalization of energy can make life easier for certain neo-capitalist groups, but we are not studying how to solve the problems of the various southern countries throughout the world.
secondly, i think we should be concerned because, after the initial reactions to 9/11, american politicians seem to be light years away from the awareness that seemed to open them up more to the world in relation to various problems, such as the environment, kyoto, food security, trade, arms issues and even the vision of intervention against terrorism, which turns out to be predominantly military.
we must start thinking that, for them too, agriculture is not just for export: it's their market, it's their environment, it's their way of life, it's their consumption.
- mr president, commissioner, the good work done by the rapporteurs leads parliament to adopt a favourable position in favour of the difficult attempt to achieve, in the interests of businesses and consumers, a full liberalisation of the energy market in europe.
- the next item is the report (a5-0063/2002) by mrs isler béguin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on action plans for biological diversity in the fields of natural resources protection, agriculture, fisheries and development aid and economic cooperation (com (2001) 162 - c5-0467/2001 - 2001/2189 (cos)).
i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr isler béguin, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs, the committee on agriculture and rural development, the committee on fisheries and the committee on development and cooperation for their work on the draft report and this resolution.
biodiversity is a key issue in sustainable development and the integration of environmental considerations into other policies.
biodiversity is also an important natural resource on which local communities in many countries depend for their livelihoods.
both the eu's sustainable development strategy and the sixth environment action programme set as a central objective the halt of biodiversity loss by the year 2010. if we are to achieve this, it is very important that the action plans for biodiversity which we are discussing today are actually implemented.
the full implementation of the birds and habitats directives is a prerequisite for the conservation of biodiversity.
if we really want to stop the loss of biodiversity, we need to look at the whole of the eu, not just the protected areas.
it is necessary to integrate the issue of biodiversity into policies relating to the development and exploitation of land and sea.
the biodiversity action plans are not only ambitious but also realistic.
they represent a major step forward in integrating biodiversity into agricultural, fisheries and development cooperation policies and our own environmental policy.
the action plan for the conservation of natural resources clearly demonstrates our firm intention to fully implement the birds and habitats directives and to support the work on natura 2000. it also sets out how we intend to use general environmental management tools such as environmental impact assessment, eco-labelling, environmental auditing and other economic management tools to promote the conservation of biodiversity across the eu.
the agricultural action plan sets out priorities for achieving mutual benefits from agricultural activities and biodiversity.
the main instruments range from rural development measures to the environmental aspects of the common organisation of the market, the beef, milk and cereals schemes, etc.
most of the most serious threats to global biodiversity are in developing countries.
the fight against biodiversity is therefore closely linked to our strategy to eradicate poverty.
these biodiversity plans are not static instruments but will be developed mainly through the use of various indicators.
i hope that these reforms will have the scope and provide the necessary steering to enable us to fully achieve the objectives of the biodiversity action plans.
only then can we achieve the overall objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. i thank all members for their valuable contributions to the debate.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0044/2002) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to food supplements (com (2001) 12394 - c5-0640/2001 - 2000/0080 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs emilia franziska müller).
this was made clear during the debate in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
- the next item is the recommendations for second reading for joint debate on the following: - a5-0042/2002 by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the health conditions for animal by-products and amending directives 90/425/eec and 92/118/eec [10407/1/2001 - c5-0588/2001 - 2000/0230 (cod) ]; - a5-0043/2002 by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down health rules concerning animal by-products not intended for human consumption [10408/1/2001 - c5-0589/2001 - 2000/0259 (cod)) ]rapporteur: mrs paulsen.
however, i regret that, despite the very good progress made on the proposal, the question of how to deal with catering waste remains a main obstacle to final agreement.
the feeding of catering waste carries a major threat of transmission of serious animal diseases such as foot and mouth disease and classical swine fever.
how can this be consistent with a derogation allowing the use of waste collected from restaurants and hospital kitchens to feed pigs and poultry?
similarly, how can parliament ask to exclude catering waste from the strict control rules of the regulation, fearing that these rules would compromise the practice of composting, and at the same time demand that the commission propose a new regulation on the safe disposal of catering waste?
furthermore, the disposal and recycling of catering waste is and will be governed by existing and future environmental legislation on biodegradable waste.
we can, however, accept amendments nos 22 and 23 on catering waste making reference to environmental legislation, as they would ensure that the goals of the regulation are achieved without undermining separate collection schemes.
amendments nos 22 and 23 also clarify that the highest risk catering waste from international means of transport should remain subject to the control rules of article 7. therefore, they are preferable to amendments nos 7 and 8. we cannot accept amendment no 18, aimed at excluding household kitchen waste from the definition of catering waste, as this is would be inconsistent with the existing eu legislation on classical swine fever.
turning to another important issue – sludge from slaughterhouses – we cannot support the first part of amendment no 2, as it virtually destroys the effect of article 4 by removing from the scope of the article material from waste-water systems from all slaughterhouses and other premises from which specified risk material is removed.
we could accept in broad terms the second part of amendment no 2, which seeks to clarify that animal material collected when treating waste water is a category 1 material only if contains bse specified risk material.
- the next item is the report (a5-0459/2001) by mrs sornosa martínez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the application of directive 91/271/eec on the treatment of urban waste water (com (2000) 2318 final).
water is one of my priorities as environment commissioner and i am particularly interested in this issue.
but it is pointless that we waste resources, and food waste is waste, for no reason, and that the cost to the public of this waste is that we have the opportunity to use it in a meaningful way.
the involvement of the social partners in shaping a modern welfare state, making it a decisive factor in sustainable development towards full employment, is one of the essential features of the european social model.
the difficulty of even scientifically proving the inclusion of environmental sites in the natura 2000 list before the transeuropean networks are built, as the union requires, is striking.
tax competition is compatible with the completion of the internal market, which does not imply an absolute equalization of conditions of competition, and tax competition is only one of many variables which determine the competitive environment in each country and between countries.
as regards environmental protection, it is recognized that not only does the polluter pays principle apply, but that this principle is not limited to taxation.
as regards energy taxation, i would point out that the current distortions of competition and asymmetries in the energy markets make it at least premature to propose tax harmonization for energy products.
if you read the commission's communication on sustainable development carefully, you will see that the aim is to phase out tobacco promotion and at the same time to develop suitable alternatives in the affected areas.
we have also introduced several changes to the technical conditions which contribute to the sustainable use of fisheries resources.
in addition, commission document com ((2001) 264 of 15 may 2001 on sustainable development stresses that 'decision-makers must identify and take into account any impact - positive or negative - in other areas.
a thorough study of all the implications of a draft proposal should include an assessment of its economic, environmental and social effects within the eu and in third countries.'
that is why, as european republicans, we believe that the commission should seriously promote studies and research on possible alternative crops that preserve the rural fabric in a sustainable way.
i am thinking, for example, of the very strange silence on iraq and the almost complete silence on the strategy for sustainable development.
i must say that we too fell into this confusion when, in gothenburg, we were glad that it was finally understood that there is no sustainable way of development and well-being without an integrated approach, which takes account of social and environmental aspects as well as economic ones.
with the exception of the small part on sustainable development, the environment is mentioned only once in the conclusions.
the abuse of a dominant position and the distortion of markets in favour of nuclear energy are our main problems today.
we know very well that public companies such as edf, eon and rve are distorting the market by buying up other european companies with the funds set aside for the management of nuclear waste and the dismantling of nuclear power stations.
we must deal with the phenomenon of terrorism with energy and clarity, from the one that strikes and kills thousands of people, as in new york, to the one that destroys individual lives and seriously endangers not only reforms but democracy itself.
our position as waldostanians is well known: the requirement to have a limitation, for safety reasons and for reasons of environmental pollution.
in the meantime, however, the commission has made a general reservation on the framework decision, noting that the subject of environmental protection is covered by numerous community texts, most of which provide for administrative sanctions, and therefore considers that the matter should be dealt with by a first pillar instrument.
the commission insists that the existing sanctions have proved insufficient, as is shown by the state of the environment in europe.
i would remind you that parliament agrees with the commission on this point: at the sitting on 15 november 2001, we adopted a recommendation on criminal sanctions and community law, in a non-discussion procedure, calling on the council, in particular in paragraph 6, not to take any action on criminal law in environmental matters until the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment by means of criminal sanctions has been adopted.
as you will see in the amendments, the framework decision refers specifically to the directive for the purposes of definitions and penalties, because we are convinced that the directive is the necessary and useful instrument, precisely because it is a community instrument, to protect the environment from devastation.
i must also add a very important aspect: the council's framework decision would in fact impose criminal penalties when the environment has already been devastated, or at any rate irreparably damaged.
it is easy to see that, without effective community action, some of these rights - such as the right to a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment, a right enshrined in article 37 of the charter of fundamental rights of the union - are not adequately protected by the member states.
none of the member states has ratified the 1998 council of europe convention on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
the very many community environmental directives do not provide sufficient protection because of poor enforcement and frequent non-compliance in the absence of effective sanctions.
although the commission, parliament and the council's own legal service have repeatedly stressed that environmental protection is a fundamental objective of the community, in accordance with articles 3 and 6 of the ec treaty, that the correct legal basis for the protection of the environment through criminal law is article 175 of the treaty and that community law takes precedence over union law, the council intends to adopt a framework decision on the same subject which not only supplements but also interferes with the proposal for a directive, limits its scope, reduces its scope and removes the matter from the co-decision procedure with the european parliament.
how can we not protect the environment, even through criminal law, so that we can always have the opportunity to see these beauties of nature?
- i congratulate mr di lello finuoli on his report, which he, as a great jurist, has prepared in the best possible way to give useful guidance to this council framework decision, which once again concerns the protection of the environment through criminal law.
i voted in favour, but personally i think that it would lead to more concrete results in the fight against environmental crime and environmental damage, not just a few days in prison - which some people may do happily and pleasantly - but rather a fine of thousands or millions of euros for the large industrial companies that are doing so much damage to our environment in so many parts of the european union.
the first concerns the report by mr florenz on the directive on the separate collection of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
i voted in favour of this report today and i voted in favour of it when i was in the committee on the environment.
i think it is very important that the european parliament should allow itself to have a better environment.
in particular, i would like to see pensioners employed in the electrical and electronic waste collection activities.
as long as sclerosis prevails in europe's labour markets, as long as employment rates, particularly among the youngest and oldest members of the working population, are held back by corporatist and protectionist policies at their present low levels, as long as this labour market approach prevails, it will be difficult or impossible to ensure that the pensioners of today and tomorrow have decent conditions, on the one hand, and sustainable conditions in the medium and long term.
it is worthwhile to try to mobilize all the energy available to use the intelligence available in order to improve the quality of training, so that culture and education become a vital stimulus and accompany man throughout his life.
a climate of fear and an obsession with retaliation now traps both peoples.
this short time frame also leaves highly indebted countries little time to develop multi-sectoral poverty reduction strategies and requires local governments to spend money and funds to return to completion point rather than to tackle a sustainable and credible poverty reduction agenda.
- madam president, the commission's decision to abolish special loans is a good one, but unfortunately, given the situation in the poor countries, it is not enough for the international financial institutions to approve initiatives to reduce debt to a so-called sustainable level.
the beneficiary countries, for their part, should commit to good governance and to channelling the savings from debt reduction towards achieving equitable and sustainable development standards for their populations.
in short, there is a risk of creating a climate of oppression and suppression of human rights.
in his excellent report - which he has also left open for our colleagues to contribute - mr torres marques describes, in a way that does not require us to repeat it, how the sector we are talking about, namely tourism, with the figures it is able to put into practice, is not only a vital sector, very important for the european union today, but also one of the fundamental sectors of its future, both in economic terms and in indirect terms, for the contribution it can make to environmental policies, social policies, policies of peace and knowledge between the peoples of different areas.
we have an environmental sustainability problem.
tourism must help us, but it must also be helped to convert the environment back to sustainability.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european union's environmental policy.
but how can we fail to understand at this point that the limited resources available to each state for an economic and social policy on the environment capable of giving a new impetus to the economy and employment make it essential to create new synergies through closer coordination of economic, social and environmental policies, particularly in the euro zone?
we think this vote is important and that by voting for the stenmarck report we are highlighting the situation, as president chirac would say, which is abracadabrant in our way of working: three workplaces and a huge waste of public money.
the approach proposed by the commission indicates a comprehensive policy which addresses all the problems: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the european union in the field of environmental protection.
thirdly, we have carried out an analysis of the sustainability of public finances in the light of an ageing population and have included this assessment in the stability and convergence programmes.
according to the barcelona european council, long-term sustainability will be a permanent objective in the budgetary surveillance procedure.
it will now comment on the quality and sustainability of public finances in response to the lisbon strategy.
significant improvements have been made in the sustainability of public finances.
the commission and the council have assessed the sustainability of public finances on the basis of the medium-term budgetary objectives set out in the stability and convergence programmes.
when we thought that, through our forums of dialogue - whether subregional or other levels - such as the rio group, the san josé dialogue, the andean dialogue, mercosur, etc., we were beginning to find a way to improve the whole environment, it turns out that we are now in a very serious situation.
the world summit in johannesburg, south africa, in less than four months, is undoubtedly an opportunity for the entire international community to make concrete efforts and to keep commitments on sustainable development.
to tackle and try to give a credible and sustainable answer to the problems that can no longer be postponed - such as the fight against poverty - with the essential question of debt, which was also discussed in the last brussels round, the enormous social and health problems facing the poorest countries on the planet and, last but certainly not least, environmental protection, trade and access to international markets, would be a strong and consistent signal that the european union, as the leading aid donor, should be the first to support, in line with its recent commitment to increase development finance by usd 20 billion by 2006 and usd 7 billion a year from 2006 onwards.
- i always wonder, mr president, whether it is right that when we talk about sustainable development in the world, we never say that a very important aspect of the lives of men and women in europe is the quality of life at various stages of their existence.
mr president, it would seem to be a good thing if mr lannoye were appointed rapporteur for this proposal, which aims, through this global partnership, to achieve sustainable development in a world where unfortunately many people - and there are many - are living in poverty.
we don't imagine that fishermen are the enemy of environmental sustainability, the enemy of trying to maintain balance.
mr president, i am sorry that the commissioner is not here because i wanted to begin my reflection on the own-initiative report, which sees me as rapporteur, by saying that the climate he finds in agriculture is certainly much more friendly than the one he finds in the fisheries sector, given today's discussion.
the future common agricultural policy must be sustainable in every respect - economically, socially, but also ecologically.
when we talk about the interests of society, we should not forget that farmers are also part of our society, and their needs must also be considered if we are to ensure that our agriculture is socially sustainable.
in this respect, i find the references to ecological conditionality very interesting.
the common agricultural policy is nevertheless intended to contribute to sustainable development.
the commission will continue to support the development of the eu's energy policy, in particular through the establishment of a european energy charter.
it seems to me reasonable and sustainable, since the european parliament certainly does not have the power to get the council to prevent member states from retaining traffic data for reasons of national security.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cappato, who has put a lot of time and energy into this file.
a non-harmonised solution as proposed in amendment no 35 is not sustainable with the internal market.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0136/2002) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on public access to environmental information and repealing council directive 93/313/ec (rapporteur: mrs korhola).
environmental issues are best handled when all concerned citizens participate at the appropriate level.
this important principle came directly from principle 10 of the rio declaration, which puts citizens at the centre of environmental policy.
without access to environmental information, it is difficult for them to participate, which is why this proposal is so important.
in 1998, the member states of the european community signed the unece convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and right of appeal in environmental matters, known as the aarhus convention.
this convention is a major step forward in implementing principle 10 of the rio declaration and continuing the process of transparency initiated by council directive 90/313/eec on the right of access to environmental information.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0155/2002) by mr lannoye, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the evaluation of the active substances in plant protection products (com (2001) 444 - c5-0011/2002 - 2002/2015 (cos)).
finally, i recognise that there is some impatience regarding the adoption by the commission of a communication on sustainable use of pesticides.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0170/2002) by mrs myller, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee, for a european parliament and council decision establishing the sixth community action programme on the environment (pe-cons 3618/1/2002 - c5-0171/2002 - 2001/0029 (cod)).
this agreement provides an excellent basis for the community's environment policy for the next ten years.
the priorities: climate, biodiversity, health, resources and waste.
integration is at the heart of the programme and the programme is at the heart of the community's sustainable development strategy, which we shall be taking forward with parliament's support as demonstrated in strasbourg earlier this month, to the world summit in johannesburg after the summer, and from then on of course.
once again, let me offer my congratulations to mrs myller; it is very much thanks to her and all the colleagues in the european parliament who have worked to bring this proposal to the point of adoption that we now have this new sixth environmental action programme.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0163/2002) by mr lange on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of emissions of pollutants from two- or three-wheel motor vehicles and amending directive 97/24/ec (pe-cons 3615/2002 - c5-0136/2002 - 2000/0136 ((cod)).
the implementation of this test in the eu will ensure the best possible environmental controls on these vehicles.
accordingly, the commission would like make a declaration that has been previously circulated in the institutions and it is as follows: the commission reaffirms its objective to ensure the best possible environmental protection as laid in article 95(3) of the treaty.
- long live the environmental information!
it is very important and very useful that the public - and amongst others the elderly and pensioners - should know everything about the environment.
so our dear mrs korhola - and i will say on other occasions about the other groups - was in this dream of mine personally at the information desk giving the public information about the environment.
just as in the united states of america - and sometimes they do something good - there is the fbi, so europe must have its federal police, but a police that works, that is not a waste of money, that is close to the citizens.
- madam president, i voted in favour of aid to the coal industry, which really needs economic support from europe, but i cannot deny that, personally and also as leader of the party of pensioners, i am in favour of nuclear energy.
i believe that the energy problem can only be solved by a decisive return to nuclear power stations throughout europe, safe, i repeat, very safe.
mr howitt, whose work i share, has highlighted many specific aspects, starting with the need for the commission to present, in the context of the future revision of the directive on the european works council, amendments requiring the verification and monitoring of the most important environmental and social effects of the undertaking.
i ask each of my colleagues, beyond the indications, the discipline, for a minimum of reasonableness which the state of the situation, the state of the facts, for that precautionary principle which we always invoke in reports on health, the environment, etc., for respect, if not for ourselves, at least for the people who work with us, for the people who visit this parliament, i repeat, i ask that all reports be deferred to the next part-session.
i would like to express my concern about the energy situation in bulgaria.
the ones that don't are the very ones that waste our time.
the common position adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection on this matter, in my view, settles all the disputes.
in the committee on the environment and health the phrase was originally deleted: 'provided that the provisions of article 30 of the treaty are complied with'.
the fight against climate change is the first of the four priorities on which i believe we must concentrate in johannesburg, with the aim of signing a binding political pact that will extend the area of the countries involved beyond those who have already ratified the protocol.
the third priority is biodiversity and, in particular, the minimum objective of stabilising the existing situation through a pact ensuring the sharing of the world's genetic heritage.
the fourth and last is of a political and institutional nature: how to provide the united nations with a body with powers of intervention, verification and control in relation to international environmental commitments.
- mr president, on the occasion of the johannesburg world summit, which will assess the progress made in the implementation of agenda 21, it is hoped that the european union, through the council, the commission and parliament, will play a leading role, since sustainable development and the fight against poverty are undeniably two priority objectives.
this will enable researchers to work more closely together in the system, increase their mobility and hopefully create an attractive working environment for them in europe as well.
there is one subject which i have not mentioned, because it was discussed in this house yesterday afternoon: the johannesburg summit and sustainable development.
we are well aware of the failure of the preparatory conference in bali, prepcon, and we want the seville european council to give clear guidelines to reaffirm the european union's leadership on the major issues in johannesburg, which are development aid, respect for the environment and sustainable development.
i believe that with these two elements we can go to johannesburg with the firmness of belonging to the group of countries that leads the world on all the big issues of sustainable development.
i would rather refer to the main reservation raised in the opinion of the committee on the environment.
we can only hope that this condition, which remains prejudicial in environmental matters, will finally be met by the initiatives launched by the commission in recent days under the heading 'improving regulation'.
- the next item is the report (a5-0192/20002) by mrs vlasto, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament: 'meeting commitments, accelerating the pace' (com (2001) 641 - c5-0075/2002 - 2002/2033 (cos)).
this amendment would concern three categories of projects: cross-border railway projects crossing natural barriers such as the alps or the pyrenees; projects to eliminate clearly identified bottlenecks at the borders with the candidate countries; the 12 priority projects in the energy sector.
amendment no 2 calls on the commission to draw up an assessment of the responsibilities of the member states; amendment no 4 introduces the possibility for member states to use private capital if they consider it useful and stresses that, in the selection of projects, their economic and social added value and their compatibility with the objective of sustainable mobility must also be assessed; amendment no 7 states that the increase in the financial allocation is compatible with the financial perspective without causing cuts in other programmes.
i also think it is important to have included the galileo project and the telecommunications and energy network projects in the new regulation, and to have reiterated that the priority sector, also for sustainability purposes, is the railway sector.
i would like to mention two: the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the community's environmental policy.
a word on the johannesburg summit: we were very surprised to find no mention in the conclusions of the serious failure of the bali summit, nor of the european union's initiatives to relaunch the sustainable development strategy.
this strategy cannot be based solely on the liberalization of trade, and least of all, as the commission also suggests, on nuclear energy.
if this is indeed the union's strategy in johannesburg, i really believe that in johannesburg, instead of rio +10, we will return to rio -10. finally, mr president, as environmentalists we were quite sure that little would have been achieved in these six months in environmental matters.
i believe that the driving ban regulations should be more restrictive, to protect the environment, to protect the population and also to create a certain pressure to develop alternatives, to deal with alternatives.
it should also call into question the value of safeguarding biodiversity and the meaning of guaranteeing consumer safety, which science is not yet able to guarantee with certainty.
- mr president, the orientation prevailing in the committee on the environment, thanks above all to the excellent work of our rapporteur, reinforces the particularly strict traceability and labelling system proposed by the commission.
the attempt by the people's party to re-propose in plenary the approach already adopted in the committee on the environment must therefore be firmly rejected.
- madam president, it is obvious that we are absolutely in favour of the adoption of regulations which ensure a high level of protection and safety for consumers and the environment, but we are also in favour of measures which are applied in a certain and transparent manner, and one of these measures is certainly labelling, which we believe should be implemented with a scientifically verifiable control system.
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic accidents which have recently affected the chemical industry, but above all the people living around these sites and the environment, have been drawing the attention of the european union.
baia mare, aznalcollár, but above all toulouse and enschede have become synonymous with human and environmental tragedies which we cannot leave without a clear response.
this will of course lead to a considerable increase in the number of sites covered by the new directive, but it must not be forgotten that public safety and the protection of the environment from substances capable of causing irreversible damage are at stake.
the committee on the environment, on a proposal from the rapporteur, has clarified the terms of these inclusions, defining all sites where preparation or processing of dangerous substances is planned, regardless of the type of processing, as covered by the seveso ii directive.
finally, the toulouse accident, which occurred in a climate of growing insecurity, still leaves an impressive mark on the collective memory.
i would like to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
it is a somewhat exceptional vote because it is not just the competence of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on the environment that is at stake.
there are many reasons for the jurisdiction of the committee on legal affairs, and i would like to mention two of them: the legal committee has been working on this subject since march 2000, when it was given the task - and i would like to draw your attention to this, ladies and gentlemen - of dealing with the green paper on legal responsibility in environmental matters, the consultation document which preceded the proposal for a directive in question.
the historical competence of the legal affairs committee, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in matters of environmental liability is precisely the interpretation of annex vi to our rules of procedure, which assigns to this committee the matters relating to civil liability, irrespective of the field in question.
i take this opportunity to express my vote in favour of this decision to underline how, both personally and as a representative of the party of pensioners here in strasbourg, i am in favour of nuclear energy.
but above all we are in favour of europe deciding once and for all whether we should develop nuclear energy or whether we should stop it: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
it is the biggest case of old-fashioned traditional food aid – shipping in wheat which is good for the farmers of wisconsin and elsewhere but not good for the survivability and sustainability of people in ethiopia.
what we need is a combined effort made up of population policy, broad-based sustainable development, fighting poverty, and stopping the wars and conflicts that are still the main cause of the starvation of millions of people.
many wrote off the kyoto protocol after the withdrawal of the united states, but the eu pressed on and ratified kyoto, setting an example which was followed by the global community to deliver a genuine prospect for tackling the problem of climate change.
the commission's first analysis identifies several potentially negative effects on the political environment and rule of law in bosnia-herzegovina.
if we are to achieve the objective that the heads of state and government set themselves in lisbon, namely to implement a european employment strategy that will achieve good and full employment by 2010 in a context of social cohesion, there is no doubt that the efforts of local actors must be considered, valued and supported, in different ways depending on the environmental context in which they operate.
the first reason is that we believe that in a decoupled system, the main reason for the abandonment or closure should be environmental aspects, whereas perhaps, in view of the tragic circumstances we have seen in connection with various floods in europe in recent weeks, other new issues could also play a role.
we have heard echoes of this difficulty in the house today, although it is clear to everyone that there are a number of reasons for this, economic, safety, environmental and consumer protection reasons: we have heard about the number of delays, the level of air traffic congestion, the cost of congestion, the safety problems of increasing airspace.
the need for a contingent community intervention was, moreover, an even trivial matter of course, considering the exceptional scale of the atmospheric phenomena which have struck europe as a whole.
although many do not want to admit it, it is becoming evident that the climate in this world of ours is sadly changing, and this without resorting to catastrophism.
it is certainly useful to reconsider, both at national and community level, agricultural production policies, forestry policies and the management of areas at risk from hydrogeological damage; the central point, however, the essential premise, is certainly the greenhouse effect and its harmful effects which, beyond any reasonable doubt, are unfortunately scientifically proven.
it should be noted that the issue of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which was first raised in the well-known kyoto protocol ten years ago in new york and again six years later, is still unlikely to be resolved in 2002 because of the lack of ratification by the member states.
lastly, on sustainable development: sustainable development is already included as an objective in the broad economic policy guidelines this year, and these include some elements relating to sustainable development.
i say this from the very rare occasion that i have had to do so, from the national situation in italy, which has certainly achieved in the years chosen by the questionable consequences, but at the same time it is a country which has absolutely special environmental conditions compared to the rest of europe.
possible structural distortions, caused by the certainly lower labour costs in these countries, by different environmental, social and technical criteria and by a clear competition between labour forces in the market, can be addressed with more flexibility in the labour market and, in part, with state employment aid.
it is not surprising that there are differences of opinion about a european agency managing aid funds for south-east europe, and it is therefore understandable that there are calls for proper investigations into allegations of mismanagement and/or corruption linked to projects, especially in the energy sector.
the rapporteur proposes various forms of judicial redress in cases where there is a conflict between the views of citizens and the decisions of the competent authority, especially when the matter involves important issues such as safety, the environment and public health.
as regards the need to guarantee member states the possibility of derogating from this directive in an emergency, there is a specific amendment which provides for this loophole in full respect of subsidiarity and of particular environmental conditions or quotas.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
– mr president, a number of speakers have referred to the problem of waste and waste policy.
she is 100% right: feed must not serve as the dustbin for waste producers.
several of the recent major food-safety crises have originated from waste management: dioxin, the recent nitrofen crisis in germany, sludge and now mpa and bse.
as i have already said, we must improve contacts between the member states on the treatment and disposal of waste – a controversial issue in a number of member states but, nonetheless, one that has to be addressed with courage and effectiveness.
this legislation requires formal notification of the movement of pharmaceutical waste, which does not appear to have happened in this instance.
why don't you do something in europe to improve that environment near naples?
you see, wandering from place to place, i've been useful: i saw something that maybe you, as europe, can improve, and it's about the environment.
i hope that this favourable climate will be maintained in the near future.
- the report (a5-0237/2002) by mrs hulthén, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the commission communication on the implementation of the first phase of the european programme on climate change (com (2001) 580 - c5-0164/2002 - 2002/2072 (cos)).
the adoption of both an action plan - which includes reference to poverty reduction, health, technology transfer and trade - and a political declaration on a global commitment to work together for a better use and distribution of natural and energy resources is an ambitious goal for both developed and developing countries to achieve a rebalancing of the world's north-south relationship and the sustainability of development and progress policies.
i hope, however, that this conference was not just a catwalk for heads of state or government, but rather that it highlighted how central the issues of sustainable development must be in the international political agenda today.
the need for supranational governance, which is steadily investing in the planet's many environmental, economic and social problems, with particular attention to the poor and developing countries, was felt in johannesburg.
the debt issue of poor and developing countries is also a central issue, which has a substantial impact on the success of the strategy for sustainable development in the medium and long term.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, i believe that each of us is a strong supporter of the need to improve the quality of the environment.
i am convinced, however, that we must start from the assumption that the quality of life and, in many respects, the quality of the environment in the world are not getting worse, as some would have us believe, and that we must therefore avoid any kind of catastrophism, recalling the catastrophistic warnings, then ignored, of the environmentalism of the 1970s, from stockholm to the club of rome.
this does not mean, however, that we should be less committed to tackling environmental issues, which are also the topics on the johannesburg agenda.
firstly, as my colleagues have also said on many occasions, one of the factors which i am convinced will improve the quality of life of many people and thus the environment is the need to open up to international trade.
secondly, the countries that protect the environment the most are those that are democratic, those that respect human rights, those that have an open economy.
in those countries, this funding does not improve either the quality of the environment or environmental policies.
the continuing economic and social crises affecting these countries are hampering the growth of the south american economy and the implementation of a sustainable development programme, due to the frequent short-term problems resulting from structural instability.
i am therefore convinced that south america and the countries of mercosur must be the focus of the european union's attention, without, of course, forgetting the environmental protection policy, which is becoming an indispensable instrument for the preservation of green areas which constitute world heritage.
- the subject you have just mentioned, mr mann, was recently discussed - and with a certain energy, equal to yours, by the way - by mr posselt.
- madam commissioner, i believe that the continuous reference to the lisbon objectives is not very useful if action plans and regulatory measures are to be drawn up at european level and above all at the level of individual countries, with a view to creating the best environment for the competitiveness of enterprises, especially at this time, and thus creating the conditions for good employment.
i also take this opportunity to welcome the commission's action plan, which sets out concrete measures to create, by 2005, a more favourable environment for the european labour market by making it more open and accessible to all.
two years ago i was confronted with the obstinacy of those colleagues who used the lack of a legal basis as a pretext and refused to support me, despite the fact that i pointed out to them how natural disasters, when they are real, affect environmental, agricultural, infrastructure, economic and social policies, which is certainly not an exhaustive list of the union as a whole.
we are about to have 25 member states and climate change is the one we are all looking at.
i shall be very brief, mr president, because we have discussed this report at length, and i will do so only to highlight some of the new elements which have emerged from a very lively dialectical discussion within the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
i therefore reiterate our position: we remain opposed to amendment no 1 tabled by mr schörling, which has already been approved by the committee on the environment by a very slim majority and which says that 'the commission should extend the ban to products containing mutagenic and carcinogenic substances'.
i think that this recommendation is extremely useful for the protection of consumer health and the environment and i hope, mr president, that the commission and the council will be able to implement it.
however, the need, which i support, for a flexible application of the stability and growth pact and for coordination of economic, social and environmental policies within the euro area has been largely ignored in these last years of recession, partly because of the serious forecasting errors of the european commission and the european central bank, which have objectively discouraged any attempt to promote and coordinate an active and countercyclical economic policy between the governments of the union.
for this reason, i support the proposal to take over the lisbon and gothenburg objectives for 2004, namely the programming of public investment in research, lifelong learning and environmental rehabilitation, and the construction of an integrated european transport and telecommunications network, as an additional objective of the stability and growth pact, by subtracting the amount of these investments from the calculation of the budget deficit of national governments.
the commission must be able to verify ex ante, through the executive commission, the appropriateness and conformity of these investments with the objective of enabling the european union to become, by 2010, the most competitive and dynamic area of a knowledge-based society, full employment and sustainable development, and to encourage their coordination.
the presence on the board of directors of members representing the institutions and at the same time of members with conflicting interests - such as industry, patients, insurance - will only generate confusion, waste of time and big litigation.
the last issue i would like to mention is the environmental initiative, where the clean development mechanism provided for by the kyoto protocol can be supported by financing reforestation and afforestation and by setting up a seed bank.
this project aims to promote positive action at european level to reduce co2 in the atmosphere, while creating an operational structure for the collection and conservation of seeds and plants, which in many cases would be lost as native species, and their use for environmental recovery.
the economic, administrative and political problems and the respect of the copenhagen criteria place slovenia, and other countries, among those which have recently tackled the various chapters of administrative and economic reconstruction with the greatest energy.
for three reasons: first, by the hope of acquiring a neutral status and thus the illusion of avoiding acts of terrorism on its own territory; second, to safeguard business relationships; thirdly, to maintain the energy supply.
i would like to say two things about the european commission: i believe that we must reflect on how to achieve a sustainable agricultural policy for developing countries and, therefore, on the unsustainability of the community's agricultural policy.
the amendment i have proposed equates islands with less developed regions, because energy is one of the areas in which the disadvantage of the island is most evident; there is no island on our continent which does not have an energy problem in terms of cost, quantity, capacity for progress and economic development.
we cannot but deplore the fact that the decision on direct payments was not linked to further reform of the cap and that there was no agreement on the principle of introducing environmental and social conditions for these payments, thus risking perpetuating, even in the new member states, all those dysfunctions and imbalances which make the cap today the most paradoxical and costly european policy, which is detrimental to those small quality producers whom we would like to reward instead.
what is the point, before and after enlargement, of more than 40% of the european budget being spent on subsidizing agriculture, which is worth on average 2% of gdp and employs 5% of european workers, in a system that causes waste, fraud, inefficiency and pollution?
paragraph 3, which indicates concrete ways of ensuring the protection of the environment, public health and animal welfare, contains the framework within which mountain farming has always operated, in what i would call its endemic form, but above all the mountain is in the chapter on rural development.
we also believe that the union's policies and the member states' sectoral policies must be geared to the cohesion objectives and the plans for sustainable regional development.
what is the climate of the debate?
we ask the european commission to identify new parameters - unemployment, infrastructure, environmental quality - which give a good idea of the territory.
there is the legal affairs committee, which does not seem to be very concerned with public health and seems to favour the rules of the internal market; the committee on the environment does not seem to be aware that there is no legal basis for proposing a public health policy.
in fact, the new commission proposal - as the commissioner himself admitted, with great honesty, a few minutes ago - is clearly insufficient to ensure the kind of protection of public health that the committee on the environment is calling for.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
as a representative of the green group, however, i believe that the focal point on which this legislative programme must be judged is the sustainable development agenda, not only within the european union but also outside it.
we hope that this time the commission's report on sustainable development, which is due for the spring summit, will not be delayed, just as we hope that, in the context of the follow-up to johannesburg, it will be possible to publish in good time the annual report on the planned water and energy partnerships which, as you know, are part of the so-called 'type 2' agreements concluded in johannesburg.
we really do not want to find ourselves in a very unpleasant situation again, like that in johannesburg, where we were faced with the fact that an agreement had been reached between the commission - or perhaps the commissioner responsible, because this mystery has not yet been solved - and the united states, which established the primacy of the wto rules over international environmental agreements.
this attempt was partly foiled in johannesburg, but we are seriously concerned that the coup may be attempted again in cancún, without any public debate and in total contradiction to the efforts of the commission itself in favour of the environment.
on the external dimension of sustainable development, i would also like to point out that, while it is true that an impact and sustainability assessment is now necessary for all international agreements - and this is a positive, innovative thing, which we are very pleased and satisfied with - it is also true that this commitment remains difficult to implement, also because of a certain lack of resources, as the work, unfortunately imprecise and hasty, carried out on the agreement with chile demonstrates.
another environmental issue which we feel it is necessary to mention and which has unfortunately disappeared from the programme is that of pvc: a material which has been identified as highly dangerous by five multiannual studies of the commission.
please don't abuse the term "sustainable".
sustainable economy means absolutely nothing, vice-president de palacio and commissioner diamantopoulou.
mr president, commissioner liikanen, it is a matter of great satisfaction to us that finally, after so many years, the committee on the environment has approved the commission's proposal for a directive on traditional herbal medicines, whose serious and scientific approach i share.
the bank's efforts in certain sectors, such as the environment, where eur 5.9 billion has been channelled to projects to support such protection, are certainly commendable.
i believe that in the coming years, and in the current negative economic climate, state aid in particular will be a very important challenge for europe.
we are in a situation where the environmental treaties we have signed are never respected: the most striking example is kyoto.
i am far from being anti-american, but i believe that there is a need for massive action in the bush administration to ensure that issues such as climate, climate change and the environment are dealt with with more carefully, and not just from an economic point of view and with a restrictive monetary view and not a broad-minded one.
the solutions must be sustainable, respect the treaties, be consistent with various institutional requirements and be the result of an agreement between the council, the commission and parliament.
madam president, i would like to express my appreciation for the report we are about to vote on, and particularly for the breathless approach it takes to the sustainable development strategy as defined in lisbon and then, more specifically, in gothenburg: the commission's proposal is not a formula for combining economic, employment and environmental objectives under a single label, but an integrated approach to orientate sectoral and horizontal policies towards a new idea of development.
if we really accept the view that social and environmental quality are not accessories but components of growth and essential factors of competitiveness, the most appropriate instrument for implementation seems to be the open method of coordination, which, however, must be strengthened and rationalised as indicated in the report, particularly as regards the involvement of the european parliament, a parliament which, moreover, must be better equipped, much better, for this purpose.
without this widespread participation, there will be no sustainable development.
the draft constitutional treaty, presented by the president of the convention, omits all reference to the notion of sustainable development.
i will tell these students that i voted in favour of the damião report and asked for exactly what they will ask for, namely that workers exposed to asbestos should be allowed by europe to work half-time, while being paid in full, and that this cost should be borne by all the other workers who are fortunate enough to work in a healthier environment, an environment which does not lead to serious diseases such as asbestosis.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the environment.
is it really impossible, even on the budget, to revive a climate of vision?
– mr president, today, the commission has adopted a comprehensive analysis of the member states' strategies for ensuring adequate and sustainable pensions.
this is, of course, without prejudice to the community policies in a number of areas which have an impact on national policy-makers, including internal market policy and the sustainability of public finances, which is examined in the framework of the broad economic policy guidelines.
moreover, the financial sustainability of pensions depends very much on the success of the european employment strategy.
on that occasion, 11 common objectives were set covering the adequacy of pensions, their financial sustainability and the modernisation of pension systems to adapt them to changes on the labour market and in society, notably to ensure that they cater well for the needs of women.
an important concept of the whole report is that there are three different dimensions: sustainability, modernisation and adequacy of pensions.
the european parliament rightly insisted on the importance of health and safety in this regard and on the need to adapt the working environment to the special needs of older workers.
mr president, commissioner, i very much appreciate this report from a certain point of view, because it points out that there is a double problem with regard to social security systems: financial sustainability and adequacy.
we also believe that the commission's proposal for a directive on environmental liability should also cover marine pollution and that the european union should adopt, in the event of an oil spill, the same financial liability regime as that already applied in the united states, where ship owners have unlimited financial liability if the accident can be attributed to them.
but there is another important warning that we must sound: we cannot continue to turn a blind eye to the various confirmed cases of active members of the bin laden network who have infiltrated our cities as regular immigrants in order to prepare, as has been discovered in recent days in france, attacks with biological weapons, perhaps so-called dirty bombs, prepared with nuclear waste.
there are crucial sectors such as telecommunications, energy, water, transport, television and the media in which governments are both arbiters and players, they have a serious conflict of interest, they are not regulators and legislators, they are themselves entrepreneurs with large, multinational companies, which are also used for power and political power.
not to mention edf: france agreed to provide for the opening up of the energy sector in its country, having ensured that edf, a 100% state-owned company, not listed on the stock exchange, which can make loans guaranteed by the state, bought companies abroad, in italy and elsewhere, which, in short, did the shopping, thus confirming a dominant position on the european market; or, in the italian case, a major television company such as rai, financed by large sums from the pockets of the taxpayers, which competes, in everything and everything as a commercial channel, with other television stations.
of course, we must also look a little more closely at the question of financing major railway lines such as the turin-lyon, pyrenees and brenner lines, because in my view this is one of the keys to sustainable development in the mountains.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environment is not affected by the effects of climate change.
i think it 's obvious to everyone that the mountain is something different from the rest of the territory: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
i would also like to mention a suggestion made to me by my colleague mario mantovani, who is not here because of flight schedules, who points out that life in the mountains is difficult not only because of all the environmental and economic problems but also because of the health care.