without a solution to this pressing problem we will never have sustainable development.
we must have the full separation of transmission from other parts of the energy network.
the commission is aware of the fact that the european council in barcelona has decided to set up a european energy market, and that the european council in barcelona has decided to set up a european energy market.
in december 2001, the commission also published a communication on energy infrastructure, which identifies priority proposals and aims to achieve by 2005 a minimum of 10% of installed generation capacity in electricity interconnection in the member states.
in order to ensure greater protection of the environment, the commission will be presenting two supplementary directives during the course of the year and, in this connection, i would like to point out to mrs mcnally that i hope to be able to present on behalf of the commission, before the end of the year, a directive aimed at promoting cogeneration which, at the same time, avoids some fraudulent uses that we all know and which in the end lead to greater expenditure and waste of energy.
and secondly, i would also like to put forward a framework directive on energy efficiency in equipment and appliances installed in all buildings, which complements the directive on energy efficiency in buildings.
mr president, i believe that, together with the directive on the promotion of electricity from renewable energy sources, the proposal on energy efficiency in buildings, the political commitment to ensure the environmental aspects of our energy consumption, and the proposal on biofuels, we are making a real effort to combine the rules for the completion of the internal energy markets and the improvement of their functioning with the improvement of energy efficiency and the environmental aspects of energy in europe.
the commission is aware of the importance of ensuring the availability at all times of funds for future decommissioning activities, not only for the purposes of the internal energy market, but also to ensure that such funds are specifically allocated to such activities.
this matter is closely linked to the system of guarantees and safeguards in the field of the use and management of nuclear energy.
this type of generation should be adequately treated within national charging systems, taking into account the principles of non-discrimination and cost accounting set out in the regulation and, in the most important case in practice, electricity produced from renewable energy sources, in the renewable energy directive.
for time reasons, i regret to confine myself to a few basic principles: while national decision-makers remain responsible for pension systems, it is the eu's role to call on them to implement in a timely manner the reforms that are sometimes overdue to ensure the long-term sustainability of their systems, in order to ensure adequate and secure pensions.
we can agree with the three guidelines for secure and sustainable pensions as reaffirmed in gothenburg.
in the same paragraph we welcome the commission's initiative to ensure safe and sustainable pensions.
communication networks and energy transmission networks are also a factor in development and growth.
those who advocate the liberalisation of energy markets do not seem to notice the obvious inadequacy of existing interconnections for energy transport.
it is precisely on this subject, and taking these elements into account, that within our obligations under the stability pact with regard to long-term sustainability in public finances, ecofin and the european council agreed that in the updates of the stability programmes there should be specific references to future obligations with regard to the problems of ageing populations in our countries.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i shall devote my speech to energy.
without a clear and ambitious policy on sustainable energy, there will be no development and no solution to the problem of the greenhouse effect.
first, a marshall programme for the two billion people who today lack adequate energy resources and who often live in rural areas or slums.
after mr bush's blocking of the g8 renewable energy plan, the european union should, either alone or with like-minded countries like japan, take the lead and finance a programme of 500,000 decentralised units, units designed on an existing model combining solar, wind and possibly hydro.
secondly, it is probably the simplest and most cost-effective measure in the world of the level of greenhouse gases in 2020: setting minimum standards for the millions of new household appliances - in china alone there will be 100 million new refrigerators in 2020 - for new engines, for millions of new computer tools.
if we succeed in setting minimum standards for them, we will be taking the simplest, by far the most economical and probably the most influential measure on international greenhouse gas policy.
third axis, which in fact consists of three measures: in short, the european union and the oecd countries must first set clear renewable energy targets.
secondly, we must help developing countries to build, to structure their energy markets to move in this direction.
finally, there are now 350 billion euros in subsidies for fossil and nuclear energy.
we are, however, categorically opposed to aid on the grounds of security of supply because there is a global energy market which is liquid, whose prices have not changed in the last twenty years and where the countries of origin are stable: the united states, australia, brazil and south africa.
the report by mr lannoye on plant protection products also touches on this problem: the committee on agriculture has tabled two amendments in its opinion to the committee on the environment.
i, for one, will focus on the energy issues that are really crucial.
there are two billion people in the world today who have no access to energy.
my question is to the commissioner: i know that the european union was quite ambitious on a specific target for renewable energy.
i also regret that the european commission is not very consistent in its approach to subsidies not only for the agricultural sector but also for the energy sector.
today, there are 300 billion euros of subsidies for fossil and nuclear energy worldwide.
if we cut these subsidies, we would have a lot of money to support investment in renewable energy and help the two billion people who don't have access to energy.
i wonder if the position taken by the european union in gothenburg to phase out energy subsidies still counts today.
if you put the same energy into helping countries that need it to develop sufficiently to hold their populations back that you put into building a wall around europe, if you put that same energy into reinvesting in the johannesburg process, then i think your presidency would be better perceived.
while restrictions on travel may provide some protection against noise and emissions for the citizens concerned and the environment in sensitive regions, in the longer term only the strong promotion of rail transport can achieve the dual objective of ensuring a quality of life for citizens in the centre of europe and providing good access to the internal market for countries on the periphery.
firstly, because it is difficult to arrive at these calculations; secondly, because, even if this overall figure is correct, we believe that there are unusually high increases in some services and goods that are consumed regularly, and this gives the impression to the public that the increase has been much higher; and thirdly, because it is no less true that the euro should contribute in the medium term to improving the competitive environment and economic efficiency by lowering consumer prices.
we have to create the climate in europe by our policies, by our wage trends and by our environment, so as to make europe a more attractive place to invest in than it has apparently been in recent years.
we cannot ask for better coordination of the economic policies of the member states without at the same time demanding improved coordination of economic, social and sustainable development policies at the level of the union.
finally, two new environmental data are collected for the industrial enterprise statistics.
data on industry's environmental protection expenditure is an important tool for policy-makers to assess the costs of complying with environmental legislation, including the impact on the competitiveness of companies, and to check whether the polluter pays principle is being respected.
mr president, the lack of success of johannesburg was due to the change in the political climate.
this change in the political climate is taking place not only in the us, but also in the eu because we have a much more trade-dominated political agenda than we did in 1992. the verts/ale group today considers that we will no longer be credible in the eyes of the g77 countries if we do not change this and add four cornerstones to our international policy.
fourthly, we must stop trade dominance and restore a better balance between multilateral environmental agreements and trade, and also introduce binding agreements for big business with regard to their corporate and social responsibility.
there may have been very good reasons why the commissioner for the environment was only able to attend for some 48 hours, but on top of this we had a commissioner who had determined a substantial part of the negotiations, without any democratic scrutiny, in secret negotiations months ahead of the whole summit.
finally, we were less well prepared with regard to the energy partnership than we were on the water partnership.
that was another reason why we were not able to move ahead quickly on this and you, commissioners, signed a letter in which you tried to readdress the question of the role of nuclear energy in this partnership.
this was the case after rio and after kyoto, even though in the meantime rio and kyoto have become essential benchmarks for sustainable development.
this notion of sustainable development has become a spell, a kind of magic prayer that is misused.
it seems to me obvious that there can be no sustainable development without economic and social development.
poverty is the main enemy of responsible management of natural resources and environmental protection.
sustainable development requires global standards, including for investment and its protection.
there is one new aspect that is very important: the water and energy initiatives are eu initiatives.
it is a dangerous illusion to think that the whole g77 group is very enthusiastic about these different targets, or committing itself to a specific energy mix within a certain timeframe.
secondly, mrs mcnally and others pointed out the closer and clearer link between the environment and poverty.
the balance between the issues of trade, development and the environment has been taken up by a number of speakers.
if we had not cleared this up, and done what we did in doha and monterrey in order to allow the world to discuss sustainable development in johannesburg, the whole thing would have been one big mess, damaging our attempts to tackle our problems with liberalising, and reducing subsidies for, agriculture.
i would say to mrs evans and mrs mcnally that an integrated approach to energy, gender, poverty, health and population – a point which was also very strongly made by mrs scheele – corresponds exactly with the kind of approach that is required.
the newly adopted eeurope 2005 action plan aims to strengthen the exchange of information and good practice, to establish a european centre of competence, to create a culture of security and to establish a secure communication environment.
the commission is proposing a revision of the guidelines on transeuropean energy networks in order to update european policy in this area.
since 1996, when the first guidelines were adopted, there have been major developments on the european energy scene.
i shall limit myself to the most significant, namely the first phase of the internal market, the increasing use of natural gas - which also reflects our concern for greater environmental protection - the setting of more ambitious targets for the use of renewable energy sources and, finally, the prospects for enlargement of the union which have been confirmed today.
the commission proposal reflects these facts in the priorities of our energy network policy and in the other provisions of the guidelines.
the most important element of our proposal is the establishment of 12 priority areas for the development of energy networks, which are truly integrated at european level.
those axes determine the corridors essential for the competitive functioning of the energy market and the improvement of the security of energy supply, in particular with regard to natural gas.
i would remind you that, in addition to the proposals for revision of the guidelines on transport and energy networks, the commission has also proposed to adapt certain provisions of the regulation on financial aid in the field of these networks.
in this context, the commission has suggested the possibility of granting higher financial support, namely up to 20% for priority energy network projects.
as regards energy networks, this concentration of financial resources is carried out with a limited, low, constant budget and should therefore not raise any a priori concerns as to the impact on competition or on expenditure, because, i repeat, it is the same volume and the same quantity.
the commission considers, however, that a first period of more competitive operation of the energy market in these countries is necessary before proposing their integration into the priority axes.
the progressive reduction of compensation payments by one fifth, in addition to the expected income losses due to cutbacks in producer prices and the mandatory 10% ecological set-aside.
in any case, the less-favoured areas should be exempted from both modulation and compulsory ecological set-aside.
we must demand full compliance with the agreements reached and permanent monitoring by inspectors from the international atomic energy agency.
(applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in 2003, the commission's work programme, and indeed the political work of the union as a whole, will be strongly conditioned by the overall economic environment.
- (de) several recommendations of the european commission and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy are to be welcomed in the field of health policy.