it is very important that the large member states in particular - and perhaps especially the federal republic of germany - finally take the necessary measures to open up their markets completely, to make their labour markets more flexible, to make their pension systems sustainable and to modernise their social services, if we are to maintain market confidence.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
amendment no 98 seeks to add both social and environmental criteria to the assessment of the most favourable tenderer.
environmental criteria - a european policy area par excellence - are objectively measurable through management standards and are therefore well applicable in practice.
- mr president, in may last year we had the first debate on the commission's sixth environmental action programme.
we are now eight months into the process and the commission, the council and parliament's committee on the environment have shed their light on the proposal.
he cares about the environment!
my group lacks substantive priorities in this whole thing, as far as we are concerned, as regards climate change, energy, waste and biodiversity.
it has received an excellent report from the committee on the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
that means that in the end the officials of the european commission will get their way, the very officials who have proposed the policy of not submitting a sixth environmental action programme at all.
that is why this is a defeat for politics and also for european environmental policy.
- mr president, since the 1970s we in the european parliament have had the habit of using environmental action programmes to give direction to environmental policy.
the objectives of the fifth eap have not been met, partly because many member states do not implement environmental legislation.
since we are failing to produce a programme which adds value to what we are already doing in the field of the environment, i wonder whether we should continue with environmental action programmes.
implementation and compliance with current environmental legislation are the issues that will be of concern, especially in the light of enlargement.
- mr president, commissioner, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to point out that in a very short time, with a number of reports - not only the one before us but also the one on the organization of working hours, reducing the working time not only for employees but also for self-employed drivers from an average of 60 hours to 48 - we have very slowly but surely put together a package in which, out of concern for safety, our concern for the environment and for efficiency, we are still trying to get some proposals through which to improve the whole environment of road haulage and the role of the driver in it.
they take market share at the expense of other companies, even if it is at the expense of jobs, the environment or animal welfare.
i am satisfied with the outcome of the vote on the possibility of exclusion on social or environmental grounds.
i am glad that the social and environmental criteria that can be applied can only apply to the products or services delivered and not to the behaviour of the companies that provide them.
i think it is positive that the rapporteur's proposals would free contracting authorities in the context of relatively small contracts from the costly and confusing obligation to use the european public procurement procedure, that employment could be guaranteed for disadvantaged groups, that environmental criteria would be better taken into account and that those who have been convicted of financial misconduct could be excluded from the tenders.
however, i consider it to be primarily a costly prestige project from which most citizens in europe and our environment will not benefit.
as europe's largest donor of emergency aid worldwide, we must also close the gap with sustainable development in crisis areas.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
the greens and others will have plenty to say about the environment.
we support that, of course, as do the amendments tabled, although we do not want to replace paragraph 30 which deals with the balance between the environment and other objectives, as mr schmidt does.
fortunately, in bonn last july, a breakthrough was made, a major breakthrough, and it is of great importance to my group that nuclear energy does not play a role in either the cdm or the joint implementation.
the environment committee has already given a taste of what it might be like: 33 in favour, 0 against and 0 abstentions.
but kyoto is the only international treaty we have to stop global warming.
and like the ozone treaty, it will have to be improved many times over.
it is likely that bush will soon announce a national climate policy: a modest partial decoupling of economic growth and energy consumption.
the lisbon summit called for the european union to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
president, the lisbon summit therefore wanted europe to do more to promote the knowledge economy, sustainable growth and social cohesion.
as a result, they cannot afford to give much importance to issues such as human rights, working conditions, public health, the environment and animal welfare.
state aid, public initiatives and community enterprises are essential instruments for countering the negative effects of the market and promoting human and environmental well-being.
the re-nationalisation of regional policy, which the rapporteur fears, will reduce bureaucracy and waste, but will still require rich member states to make compensatory solidarity contributions to the benefit of the poor.
- (nl) the use of animal waste in the food of survivors of the same animal species is something that only someone who only cares about money can imagine.
in a free market, the cheapest producer wins in fierce competition, even at the expense of labor, the environment, animal welfare and public health.
the rapporteur, mr olsson, and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection rightly call for greater control of compliance with the prohibitions that have been introduced in the meantime, stricter penalties for violators and the destruction of existing stocks.
we believe that this should also be the core of cohesion policy: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the possibility of a new directive on the protection of the environment.
in addition, there are expected benefits in terms of maintenance and a cleaner environment.
there is no such intention and it seems that we are even trying fearfully to avoid trade wars with the united states over the importation of dangerous goods and noise pollution from aircraft.
such a waste of community funds serves only industry and the military apparatus.
the protection of the well-being of the worker in an economic climate of productivity and efficiency therefore deserves all the care and attention.
- the integration of a sustainable environmental policy into economic and social policies has been the subject of wonderful words at recent european council meetings.
i therefore call on the council and the commission to take the gothenburg environmental agreements seriously and to implement them in their concrete policy plans.
in this context, a good correlation between indicators is of great importance for the development and assessment of a sustainable environmental policy.
secondly, the impact of the sustainability impact assessment promised by the commission must be established in the short term.
i would also like to draw attention to the liberalisation of the energy market.
the opening up of the energy market must not lead to undesirable monopolistic behaviour.
a good guarantee of energy supply should allow for government intervention to guarantee supply.
- the environment committee has drawn up a fine resolution on sustainable development.
now the aznar government wants a €1 billion annual european subsidy for its plan hidrológico nacional, a foolish plan that goes directly against sustainable development: transporting water across a thousand kilometers instead of conserving water and desalinating seawater.
as a result of this growth and competition with the other two major economic powers, existing public services in the field of public transport, energy supply, post and telecommunications are also likely to fall into the hands of large international groups.
since then we have known that air and noise pollution is affecting large numbers of people who are not taking part in traffic, that professional drivers lack physical exercise and that many pedestrians and cyclists are becoming victims of the increase in motor traffic.
to survive in a society characterised by profound changes resulting from technological progress, man and the environment need increased protection.
the neoliberal model has not solved these problems and has not made the world safer or more sustainable.
that is how we should look at it and miracle drugs like tobin taxation will not work, mr president, because we are automatically giving money to the mugabe's of this world and that is totally unacceptable, that is a waste of taxpayers' money.
i still think it is quite right that a supervisor should have the same status as the ombudsman, but it seems to me to be a waste of money and actually unsustainable to give his assistant the same special status.
it is then important to know how the programme will be implemented in spain and portugal in 2003. the second point is, when i look at biodiversity, the problems in aquaculture.
of course, we have to look very closely at the environmental aspects.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been working in europe for some 15 years now to make the liberalisation of the energy market a reality.
and for that, energy liberalisation is a necessity.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
as far as the committee on the environment is concerned, this will not be a major problem, since the following four points have been satisfactorily resolved.
this is a positive step in the fight against noise pollution, as metropolitan airports are allowed to take further measures.
the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt the amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment.
i have, however, only tabled the first two amendments of the committee on the environment as supplementary amendments.
environmental considerations must be integrated into transport policy in accordance with article 6 of the treaty.
mr president, noise pollution around airports is always a very emotional problem for the citizens who live around them and mr jarzembowski, who lives in hamburg, knows this all too well.
i thank mr blokland, who in the committee on the environment has made certain adjustments, which have also been very warmly supported by the epp part of our group in the committee on the environment.
this is done by the business community, the environmental organizations and the trade unions.
- mr president, i am not speaking for the environment committee, but for the committee on fisheries, where i was the shadow rapporteur.
she talked about brazil, and i'm starting close to home when we talk about biodiversity.
i think that is a point for the commission, for our environment commissioner, to investigate and to propose a policy.
a third point is aquaculture and its impact on the marine environment.
the fifth point is that the committee on fisheries wants to see a study of the link between climate change and fish stocks.
the commission's biodiversity research would also be very desirable in this respect.
i would like to conclude, mr president, by inviting the commissioner for the environment, mrs wallström, to discuss specific points of this kind with the committee on fisheries, with a view to seeing how it can contribute to the green paper on fisheries, including in the area of biodiversity.
the protection of biodiversity is a high priority.
public support is important and no one is turned off by an abstract concept like biodiversity.
the birds directive and the habitats directive are the cornerstones of biodiversity protection.
large-scale farming and biodiversity conservation are difficult to combine.
the impact on fisheries biodiversity is less visible.
bottom trawling in many coastal and deep-water areas is a threat to biodiversity.
biodiversity should be a guiding principle in regional planning.
i am glad that the majority of the environment committee wants to allow manufacturers of vitamin pills 36 months instead of 18 months to prove that their products are safe.
-{nl) for more than a century now, public utilities such as the post office, public transport, energy supply and drinking water have for the most part been state monopolies, and for good reason.
after a succession of buyouts and bankruptcies, in about 20 years three global groups will be the law and it will have become impossible to wrest from them any measure to protect staff, the environment and consumers.
-(nl) encouraging international trade in gas and electricity will increase the problems of the environment, consumer protection and price stability.
they accept a more market-friendly orientation, which implies growth and profits, while trying to protect the environment and consumers.
i am happy to support their attempt to present a breakdown, expressed as a percentage, of the origin of electricity in consumer bills and information documents, and also the consequences of consumption on the production of greenhouse gases and nuclear waste, and to apply these measures also to imported energy.
i feel less sympathetic to their desire to liberalize also biomass and waste gases and their concern to ensure that environmental obligations do not stifle competition between companies, even if this is only a concession to the majority of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
since this type of production is now too expensive, these companies use the crossborder connection network to import dirty electricity produced with coal, lignite or nuclear energy.
i therefore reject the content of the mombaur report on crossborder trade in electricity, even though the proposals of mr turmes and mr rapkay are in favour of accounting for greenhouse gases and nuclear waste, stimulating windmills and cogeneration and protecting consumers.
aircraft noise pollution has thus become a scourge for an ever-increasing proportion of mankind.
noise pollution is treated very differently in the united states and in the third world.
europeans who are genuinely interested in limiting noise pollution should not be satisfied with the recent global agreement reached within the icao and become proponents of even stricter measures.
i find in his vision only a timid concern for man and the environment and an over-emphasized sympathy with the wishes of companies concerned with the management of capital.
i regard his proposal as a first step which will facilitate the establishment of rules to encourage the financing of universal public services, the fight against poverty, democratic control and environmental protection.
the rapporteur rightly stresses the need for scientific research, other funding and development aid, as well as the negative effects on the environment and the disadvantages of the countries concerned.
these groups are becoming very poor and are forced to seek safety in the cities or to devastate their natural environment to facilitate the development of industry and intensive agriculture.
despite this long list of deterioration, the vote on this proposal on the protection of biodiversity seems to be a glimmer of hope, even if i am not very optimistic about its implementation.
- (nl) the applicant countries like to point the finger at the waste water treatment policy of the city of brussels to conclude that environmental rules are only on paper.
of the 527 agglomerations with a population of more than 150,000, 94 directly discharge their waste water into the environment without treating it, and another 134 do not provide sufficient information.
they invariably raise the threat of a trade war when asked to supply products that meet certain environmental and public health requirements.
i agree with him that a tax on environmental pollution can be a serious alternative.
it should be borne in mind, however, that once the environment is clean again, this type of tax will no longer be profitable.
one of the old objectives i would like to mention is the integration of the environment into socioeconomic policies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment.
it is good that the energy tax is being worked on.
the energy tax can contribute to a responsible use of energy and to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
i am in favour of using economic instruments as an incentive to use energy more efficiently.
however, on the decision to introduce an energy tax, i would ask commissioner loyola de palacio what impact she thinks an energy tax will have on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading?
- mr president, commissioner, mr minister, i too have been to barcelona, not to participate directly in the summit, but because a joint conference of ngos on sustainable development was held at the same time, with the participation of ngos from trade unions, ngos from environmental organizations, the european environment agency and the social platform.
sustainable development should have been the subject of this summit.
the ngo conference was very disappointed that - as mr blokland had already pointed out - very little progress had actually been made in integrating economic, social and, above all, environmental policies.
the laeken summit did mention a number of structural indicators in the environmental field, but there is clearly no mention of integration.
when we talk about 3% growth or something like that, it does not mean that we are talking about sustainable growth in the long term.
the trade unions and social ngos are therefore concerned about the effects of further liberalisation of energy markets where only a small energy tax is countered as a plus for the environment.
the majority of the members of this parliament do not appreciate the damage caused by the lisbon and barcelona summits to the well-being of the people, to public services and to the preservation of the environment.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the commission, parliament and the council fully share the view that member states should have the possibility of imposing criminal sanctions as an enforcement instrument for european environmental legislation.
the way in which such a system of criminal sanctions for serious environmental offences should be formulated and initiated and the question of who should be allowed to take part in the decision-making process, divides us.
with the rapporteur, mr di lello, from the committee on civil liberties, i am taking the european commission's side here and i am going for a directive on environmental crime under the first pillar.
what binds the council, parliament and the commission is that we all want to follow up the very explicit request of the tampere european council in october 1999 for common definitions, penalties and penalties targeting a limited number of sectors of particular importance, but mentioning environmental crime in particular.
if we look at article 280 (4) of the ec treaty, which is in line with article 5 which lays down the principle of subsidiarity, i would observe that in the area of environmental criminal law too care must be taken that ec legislation does not disturb the organisation of national criminal law.
a third point: it is therefore crucial that this directive does not deal with specific provisions on criminal law, but that criminal law is used to make environmental policy effective.
fourthly: the proposal on environmental crime is based on article 175 (1) of the ec treaty, which provides that the council, acting in accordance with the co-decision procedure laid down in article 251, shall take all measures necessary to achieve the environmental objective set out in article 174, provided that subsidiarity does not prevent this.
a fifth point: the proposal for a directive is in line with environmental directives and regulations adopted on the basis of article 175 (1) and adds only a criminal aspect to that legislation.
the existing line is thus extended, with the directive requiring member states to provide for criminal sanctions for activities which cause significant damage to the environment.
in article 2 i have also included in the definitions the term 'incitement to environmental action', which i have based on the so-called danish proposal.
finally, i would like to thank my colleagues, not only those in the committee on the environment and the rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, but also the colleagues in the legal affairs committee and all the shadow rapporteurs.
we serve a good cause: the protection of the environment.
the criminal law in the member states on environmental offences is still a matter of debate.
the deliberate pollution of our environment cannot be adequately combated by this.
experience has shown that the current penalties for breaches of european and national environmental legislation are not sufficient, to say the least.
it seems that only criminal sanctions are sufficient deterrents to ensure compliance with environmental legislation.
the european environmental legislation is not without reason, since we are dealing with transboundary effects in air pollution and water pollution, among other things.
in addition, there are many negative consequences of transporting waste to places where there is no environmentally responsible treatment.
these reasons lead me to support an international approach to environmental crime.
finally, mr president, it is shocking to learn that every strasbourg meeting costs an extra 11 1⁄2 million euros a week, and that is without taking account of the environmental tax.
- the guarantee of a high and uniform level of safety and environmental protection in civil aviation is, in the view of my group, the central objective in setting up the european aviation safety agency and the related regulations.
in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection the amendments adopted today - and thanks to the plenary - have been adopted by the european commission.
this is modern environmental policy.
the famous environmental principle is: the polluter pays.
and that's better for the environment and ultimately cheaper for the consumer.
incandescent light bulbs have only a limited effect on the environment.
removing gases with a high global warming potential is not very effective.
the contribution that this would make to combating the greenhouse effect is practically nil.
i would also like to draw attention to the danger of electronic waste being dumped in countries outside the european union under the guise of recycling.
the european commission has always argued that this revision proposal could come as soon as the proposal for the directive on electronic waste was ready.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on electronic waste should, in my view, be primarily a service to the environment.
we support all the amendments to strengthen the environmental objective.
but the environment is not benefiting from european rules against collective systems.
individual financing therefore has little environmental benefit.
i understand the ideological background, that environmental costs should be included in the price, but does that have to be invisible?
in any case, visibility increases consumer awareness, and this is very important, because consumer cooperation is certainly needed to achieve environmental objectives.
- (nl) the european delegation of the pvda wishes to make the following statement: 1. the the pvda delegation fully supports the directives on waste electrical and electronic equipment.
these guidelines should give priority to environmental objectives.
we therefore support all the amendments aimed at strengthening environmental objectives.
2. the the netherlands is one of the few countries that has already gained experience in the collection of waste electrical equipment.
the producers must be encouraged to adopt an ecological approach to production, which goes far beyond recycling.
we believe that environmental costs should be included in the price of the product - this being the case, mentioning it increases transparency.
this is very important because consumer cooperation is necessary to achieve any environmental objective.
consumers and the environment would like products to be made that are sustainable, with every part of the product being reusable at the end of its life.
environmental fanatics would like expensive and unrealistic solutions, whereas environmental objectives could be achieved without constraint.
for these reasons, it is good that we adopt regulations on the recycling of 'abandoned' products from companies that no longer exist, or 'historic' waste from unknown producers, or waste produced before the directive comes into force.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled 15 additional amendments to focus on people who have never worked with asbestos themselves but who may be exposed to it, such as family members, residents of dwellings containing asbestos or people in the vicinity of asbestos removal operations.
the european commission is also invited to submit proposals before the end of 2003 for compensation and protection of victims of non-occupational exposure to asbestos, including in cases where the source of pollution is unknown or the company responsible no longer exists.
i would also ask the commission, possibly through the commissioner for the environment, to come up with additional regulations which we could use.
- (nl) as security of life, prosperity and public services improve and the environment becomes cleaner, people's life expectancy also increases.
governments are looking for ways to save or have not saved enough to ensure a sustainable pension scheme.
it is not for nothing that development policy is based on the principle of sustainable, equitable and participatory human and social development.
the aim of the common fisheries policy is to maintain sustainable fish stocks.
- (nl) my party, the dutch socialist party, is in favour of a high level of protection of man and the environment and is prepared to accept a high level of fiscal pressure to this end.
the quality of public services in the fields of education, health, public transport and environmental protection comes at a price and cannot be undermined by austerity measures.
on the other hand, we support solidarity with the poorest regions, development aid to the third world and greater respect for the environment.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
the ecological vulnerability of many tourist areas is also a major concern.
since the stockholm summit, the integration of social and employment policies and environmental policies into economic policy has been an objective for achieving sustainable development.
i now see that the social and employment objectives are being taken up in mr trentin's report, but i do not think that the environmental aspects are being taken up enough.
the integration of economic and social policies is clearly more obvious than the integration of environmental policy into economic policy.
is the reason that environmental policy costs money and does not produce directly measurable economic results?
i therefore advocate that the guidelines for economic policy should include clear and concrete environmental objectives in addition to references to the importance of the environment.
i am thinking here of the inclusion of targets for energy use and co2 emission reductions.
we are much less concerned about the impact of tourism on the environment, transport, safety and consumer protection, although there are considerable problems in these areas.
the european parliament's travelling circus is one of the symbols of waste and power politics that citizens are resisting.
as early as 1992, the fifth environmental action programme, written by laurens jan brinkhorst as the then chief environmental officer, stated that the commission would come up with a proposal for measurement in 1994 - the proposal did not come until 2000 - and that the commission would come up with the directives in 1995. the commission has never taken it out of the drawing-room for some reason, as it may be able to explain.
one: the eu must consistently adhere to multilateral agreements in the fields of security, the environment and international criminal law.
it is a territory with a much lower standard of living, suffering from significant environmental pollution and in need of free passage through the lithuanian-polish border region to belarus and russia.
i support the approach taken to consider kaliningrad as an experimental part of russia which, with russia's agreement, would be strongly involved in its european environment and receive financial support to do so.
- in 1992, at the earth summit in rio de janeiro, we agreed to take sustainable action for the environment and development through global cooperation.
in fact, the environment has now disappeared from the centre of public - and thus political - interest, while the pressure on the environment has only increased.
if we continue to neglect the environment, it will inevitably lead to (more) floods, forest fires, pollution and poor health for many people.
in short, without sustainable development, not only will the environment be damaged, but insecurity, disease and mortality - the issues affecting the population - will also increase.
only in this way can the environment be given the attention it deserves and the political will be created to adopt binding environmental legislation at international level and to implement it effectively.
finally, mr president, these are proposals aimed at balancing the market and the environment.
he also said that fisheries policy should be guided by a balance between economic, ecological and social conditions.
for example, agriculture in the netherlands adds over 1500 tonnes of chemical agents to 3600 tonnes of pesticides each year, the effects of which on humans and the environment are unknown.
practice shows that the pursuit of sustainable drinking water production is hampered by the unsustainability of the use of plant protection products.
caeterum the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation.
another important point of concern is the implementation of the trans-european networks, and in particular the environmental conditions within which it should take place.
this directive confers certain tasks on member states with regard to environmental impact assessments.
that seems to us a waste of effort and resources.
this term is used to indicate that companies voluntarily address social and environmental issues in the course of their business activities and in their relations with other parties.
this series will mainly focus on a choice between the environment and well-being on the one hand and the appetite for maximum profit margins and the individualism of the privileged on the other.
to act in favour of the environment and well-being, we must curb the unnecessary transport of commercial goods and ensure that the transport of people and residual goods is carried out as little as possible by car or air.
i found it positive that the european commission is showing more interest than in the past in the environment, the pressure on public space and protection against nuisance.
its priorities include not only the maximum extension of fishing zones, the limitation of environmental measures, the diversion of the ebro to murcia or the annexation of gibraltar, but also, apparently, the organisation of repressive violence.
mr fiori rightly mentions the environment and food security, but in practice he seems to me to be mainly concerned with the requirements of the wto, with the maintenance of agricultural subsidies to southern europe after the accession of the poorer countries of eastern europe and with the fight against national regulations as fiercely as possible.
on the other hand, owners and managers rarely consider the impact of their actions on their workers, the population and the environment in general.
those that are able to reduce their costs and sell their products at the best price survive, even if this is at the expense of democracy, labour, the environment and animal welfare.
the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament rightly calls for the inclusion of social and environmental issues in the fourth company law directive, as well as for independent monitoring, equal opportunities for women, publicity of the ethical criteria of company pension funds, approved codes of good conduct and freedom of association.
this should be promoted through paid work that provides a sustainable income for women themselves and for those who depend on them.
i therefore ask mr nisticò to bring up the principles which were adopted at the first reading in parliament and which have been confirmed at the second reading by the committee on the environment.
the citizens must feel that by going to the polls they can make their mark on european policy and on the solution of the problems which call for european cooperation, such as asylum, migration, food security and the environment.
more than two billion people lack modern energy and more than one billion lack clean drinking water.
biodiversity would have been a thousand times greater if man had left nature alone, and the relationship between a dirty environment and health is evident.
in fact, over the past decade, official development assistance for nature and the environment has declined sharply, and there is still little evidence of good governance.
first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner and his cabinet, the representatives of the european commission, the spanish presidency, the secretariat of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, the consultants, the shadow rapporteurs and all those who have been involved in the preparation of this report.
- (nl) for some entrepreneurs, it is preferable to operate in an area where there is little or no public authority, so that the profitable part of their business, which is dangerous for their employees, for other people or for the environment, is not curtailed in any way.
this is not yet enough to protect the marine environment.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the commission has therefore decided to make a proposal to the council for a regulation on the protection of the environment.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with thanks to the members of the committee on industry, in particular mr read and mr harbour, and to the secretariat of the committee on the environment, i am pleased to be drawing up this report as rapporteur.
there is now a patchwork of measures by which municipalities and regions are protecting the environment and their sunday rest and trying to smooth out dangerous traffic peaks.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, you have done a good job in that, from the point of view of road safety, the environment and noise reduction, it is very good that a light form of harmonization has been chosen.
other speakers have said it before: europe is too dependent on imports for energy.
madam president, i think that the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is a worthy objective.
biofuels have other environmental effects besides the positive co2 effect.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted.
i therefore believe that a comprehensive environmental impact study is needed to remove the doubts that exist about the use of biofuels.
if we now promote biofuels with fiscal measures without having a clear picture in advance of the impact on the environment, we could be deceived.
where the use of biofuels makes a clear contribution to a better environment, promotion is appropriate.
secondly, only a combination of a fair distribution of wealth on the one hand and a sustainable european asylum and immigration system offers a future.
opting for more public transport is preferable because this type of transport can more easily use hydropower, wind and solar energy.
this energy remains the best choice of motive power for means of transport.
the burning of these fossil fuels is a major contributor to global warming.
nevertheless, lower taxes on biofuel, which causes fewer environmental problems, are provisionally justifiable as a means of influencing consumer and business behaviour.
-{nl) nuclear energy is very controversial but after a long pause following the harrisburg and chernobyl disasters, there is a renewed attempt to build new nuclear power stations.
as long as nuclear energy exists, for peaceful or military purposes, the dangers will remain significant.
it is precisely these waste products that are of interest to criminals and terrorists, who want to force capitulation by threatening to spread dangerous substances.
this is the most useful task for what remains of euratom, the european institution once set up to promote the large-scale use of nuclear energy.
the conditions are environmental and health protection, consumer choice and polluter pays.
unintentional pollution will always occur.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
this is good news for all researchers in europe, but also for the research climate and innovation in the european union.
but, ladies and gentlemen, that requires a much better investment climate to make it attractive for companies to invest in europe.
now that the first line of defence against the potential dangers of genetic pollution has fallen, it is all the more important that the second line of defence holds.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has rightly strengthened these proposals with regard to the closure of dangerous companies, the training of staff, information for citizens, the provision of safety reports and emergency plans.
this includes exchange rate policy, interest rates, the money supply in circulation, and the consequences for employment, public utilities, environmental protection and consumer prices.
famine is really not just due to climate or high toll boards; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the environment, such as the introduction of a new system of quotas for the production of milk and milk products.
after the refusal to sign the kyoto climate agreement or to ban chemical and bacteriological weapons and after the tax on steel imports, this is yet another big step by the us government to go against the whole world.
this raises the question for me of what role europe has to play when local employment policies are leading to a stable climate.
as rapporteur for the committee on women's rights, i have to tell you that we feel that the explicit reference to the gender dimension as part of basic labour standards and the achievement of social sustainability is missing from this communication.
it is a positive approach that uses incentives, cooperation and sustainable development.
- mr president, as rapporteur i have the honour and pleasure of informing the house that the draft agreement on waste statistics reached on 26 june this year at an informal meeting between representatives of parliament, the council and the commission was ratified by coreper yesterday afternoon and confirmed in writing by the chairman of coreper to the chairman of the committee on the environment.
the council adopted 13 amendments from the committee on the environment, while a compromise was reached on all the other amendments.
i would also like to hear commissioner diamantopoulou confirm that in this waste statistics and in the further development of pilot studies by the european commission and eurostat, every effort is being made to reduce the burden on respondents as much as possible.
i would also like to have confirmation of the council's oral commitment to provide an annual update of the available waste indicators.
this result could only be achieved thanks to the excellent cooperation of the environment committee colleagues and their staff and our invaluable secretariat.
it sounds like an attempt to return the whole of the european union to the 19th century, a time before the emergence of the labour movement and the environmental movement and before the introduction of universal suffrage.
monopolies for supplying a single region, with sales prices, environmental policy and social policy under democratic control by popular representation and the relevant citizens' representative organisations, can work very well.
it is becoming increasingly clear that many of these producers are only able to achieve such low prices through appallingly low wages, unhealthy and dangerous working conditions, the firing of workers when they are no longer needed, child labour, the degradation of nature, environmental pollution and animal abuse.
i am not in favour of the eu presenting itself as a great power, but if it is to impose standards on labour and the environment that are better than those in america and the third world, i can only support it wholeheartedly.
we sort and collect our waste.
people all over europe are working to recycle the waste that we all produce.
we're all doing this for the environment, and we have to keep doing it, because the waste mountain is still growing.
secondly, the environmental return is not always clear.
we think recycling is good for the environment, but there's a limit to it.
for example, if the distance is too long, the environmental benefit becomes a disadvantage.
the environment committee can present a result that provides good starting points for further steps towards sustainable development.
firstly, the environmental result of the directive, which unfortunately is not always clear.
the environmental impact must be clear to continue to motivate citizens to separate their waste.
the committee on the environment therefore calls for a clear evaluation of the environmental performance of the packaging directive.
the environmental outcome must not only be clear to citizens, but also be at the forefront of the choices made by businesses and governments.
the environmental management committee asks producers to choose the most environmentally friendly alternative.
this packaging environment indicator shall consist of at least two parameters: the amount of waste and greenhouse gas emissions.
greenhouse gas emissions are a global problem and therefore should be given equal weight in each country.
however, the waste problem and recycling capacity vary from country to country and therefore the values allocated should also vary from country to country.
the environmental indicator for packaging has been the subject of considerable debate.
different materials such as paper, metal, glass and plastic must compete with each other on the basis of environmental quality.
so there is an incentive for constant innovation in the environmental field, an incentive to invest in recycling capacity.
i think the 65% proposed by the committee on the environment is a good compromise for the first reading.
and i'm also suggesting a middle ground here: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances or mixtures of substances.
the reuse of waste is also the subject of most of the internal market problems.
that is why we must also put the environmental result first.
the committee on the environment has voted for the zero line.
finally, ladies and gentlemen, a word on sustainable development.
in johannesburg, the world is talking about sustainable development.
the concept of sustainable development must be given a new lease of life.
we have done this before in the directive on electronic waste and in the directive on scrapped cars.
the producers must innovate on the environmental quality of their packaging.
it is the best guarantee that the generations after us will not be burdened with our waste, with a lack of natural resources and with climate change.
the european union's environmental policy must therefore be directed towards the protection of all creation, including human, animal and plant health and the quality of air, water and soil.
as packaging represents about one third of all household and business waste by weight, you will understand that we attach great importance to harmonising national measures to prevent or reduce the harmful environmental impact of packaging and packaging waste.
what is still lacking are better rules on waste prevention, reuse of packaging material and producer responsibility.
the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment are therefore a good first step.
the proposal on the table, as amended by the committee on the environment, is a first step in the right direction.
that is sustainable development.
that is sustainable development.
without a structural approach to environmental problems, there can be no sustainable development.
then climate degradation and the degradation of forest, sea and land will only get worse and nature will strike back.
a signal in johannesburg, starting with a global structural approach to environmental problems and a global structural approach to poverty.
only then can we really speak of sustainable development.
with johannesburg in mind, i would like to say that the single european sky will also be a great input for the sustainable development of our environment.
increased efficiency and speed of processing should minimise delays, environmental pollution and avoidable costs.
in order to avoid distortions of competition, the environmental committee has decided to apply the noise levy to all airports.
within the framework indicated by the committee on the environment, a very strict policy is possible.
as indicated earlier, the proceeds from noise charges will be used to make investments that reduce noise pollution.
however, the committee on the environment considers that other costs, such as environmental costs due to noise pollution, should also be paid.
in addition, not all the effects of noise pollution can be expressed in exact terms.
but i think it is much more important that the noise pollution for our citizens will be reduced.
mr blokland has also indicated that: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of sleep, psychological effects and some of the environmental effects.
i can tell you that the majority of my group will support the amended proposal as adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection in the plenary.
as far as we are concerned, the proceeds should be used for infrastructure upgrades to reduce noise pollution.
but there are also good reasons for regional production or environmental subsidies.
packaging materials have become increasingly colourful and contain, in addition to the simple cardboard boxes of the past, materials which are harmful to the environment, such as heavy metals.
it is high time that the commission proposed to amend the directive on packaging and packaging waste adopted eight years ago, but the proposed improvement is not enough.
the emphasis on energy production by incineration is wrong, because it only allows the producers and processors of polluting packaging to continue in the old way.
emphasis should be placed on waste prevention and the reuse of materials.
the committee on the environment rightly wants at least 65% of the weight to be recycled, a total ban on the use of lead, cadmium, mercury or hexavalent chromium from 2007 and stricter requirements for new packaging materials from 2004. it is also a good proposal to aim to produce 10% less packaging waste in 2006 than in 1998 and to reassess national and european rules as to the obstacles they create to reuse.
- (nl) the result of traffic with countries outside europe is that our roads, ports and airspace are used by means of transport which do not meet our environmental and safety requirements.
the old solution of feeding cows animal meal and slaughterhouse waste as a protein supplement has not worked since the mad cow crisis, or bse, but this is the only change that seems to be generally accepted today.
i hope that this basis will become wider and wider and that from the spring summit in athens we will continue to exchange and try to reach common social and sustainability objectives and look at what economic policy can contribute to that, and not vice versa.
anyone who fails to get rich quickly, often at the expense of his fellow man or the environment, is viewed as a failure.
how does the waste legislation relate to what we do with our livestock feed?
if you say, commissioner, that mrs wallström says that if the waste legislation had been upheld there would have been no problem, then i think you should ask the irish authorities why they did not check that these hormones had been wrongly disposed of by a waste disposal company.
the creation of european citizens constantly travelling between member states in search of the most privileged jobs will lead to conflicts with their environment and to misfortune for themselves.
the protection of the environment from pollution, nuisance and hazards that most people want often implies an obstacle to the pursuit of profits for companies.
rainfall is increasing due to global warming, deforested soil is no longer able to hold water and riverbeds have become too narrow.
- (nl) the main point of this report is not the greenhouse effect in the newly industrialized countries, the fight against poverty, the death penalty in china or the dictatorship in burma.
if it is now proposed to extend the european agency for reconstruction, originally planned for kosovo, to serbia and montenegro, and if it is also argued that kosovo, serbia and montenegro should become more interdependent through a common energy supply, one can ask whether serbia has been granted the recovery of kosovo in exchange for adaptation and integration into the european union.
the political climate is often so islamized that politicians only have a chance in elections if they advocate for this legislation.
the green electricity goes to germany and the pollution to the dutch village.
the best paragraph in the report is the one that calls for an integrated approach to asylum and migration, trade, development, the environment and agriculture.
we have to include the environment and all that sort of thing.
it is true that you are now asking for officials for the priority of enlargement, but that for the priority of sustainable development there are systematically too few officials present or too few officials.
is this because you really believe that compliance with environmental legislation and its monitoring can be better done by the member states, or are there simply budgetary reasons for this, namely that you do not have the officials to check whether the member states are indeed complying with that legislation?
if it is a budgetary problem, i wonder what will happen to the priority of sustainable development.
i therefore find it quite reprehensible that some of my colleagues in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy should try to put pressure on the council to break ethical boundaries.
- mr president, madam commissioner, unfortunately you have not yet had the opportunity - and i am happy to give you that opportunity here - to answer my earlier questions about the 500 new posts, about the lack of manpower to enforce the control of compliance with environmental regulations and also about whether candidate countries should start in 2003 with the bureaucracy surrounding the applications for structural funds in order to have the highest possible implementation in 2004. my other question, and my concern, in relation to this block is about small projects.
this reduction in subsidy thresholds is also important for the expansion of existing sustainable transport services.
the aim of the marco polo programme should be broadened so that it can also contribute to the search for and development of more sustainable transport systems.
sustainable transport systems cannot be achieved by modal shift actions alone.
if we look across the board and consider the climate in which the negotiations took place, my group judges the outcome moderately positive.
a pioneering role, especially in the global commitment to ensure that more than a million people have access to basic sanitation and in their own way achieve human dignity, better health and a better environment.
in the light of all this and in view of the climate, we are fortunate to have succeeded in preventing the world from going backwards.
we think the eu has gone too fast on renewable energy.
we believe that the new energy partnership should have been launched better and discussed in parliament beforehand.
(the president cut the speaker off)
- mr president, i shall concentrate on the european programme on climate change.
the seriousness of the potential climate change is beginning to be felt after the recent floods, but few are aware of the need to act, let alone convinced.
what does it mean when every apartment building has a solar panel on the roof or uses energy-saving light bulbs?
if the choices are clear, citizens can also be involved in climate.
then climate policy can become climate policy.
secondly, climate policy should be placed much more in the context of development.
investments in renewable energy are costly, but they also pay off.
sustainable energy is local and can provide a huge boost to development.
member states should invest jointly in the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
commissioner, i think there should be more enthusiasm for climate policy.
the final statements in the documents on fisheries and energy are also positive, although they could have been more positive in the chapters on wind, solar and hydroelectric power.
i think the commissioner's comments are a little bit sour, and the environment is already sour enough without us needing another sour commissioner.
i have to correct the commission on one point, biodiversity.
there is no global agreement that we will end biodiversity loss by 2010. the only agreement that has been reached is a significant reduction in the extinction of species.
and this is despite the fact that 100 ministers in the hague this spring called for - as we have said in europe - an end to biodiversity loss by 2010. the question is, of course, why europe has achieved so little.
so it makes sense that those g77 countries have focused on classic poverty reduction, clean drinking water, sanitation, energy for the poor.
we have not yet reformed our own agricultural policy and we put our own commercial interests ahead of sustainable development.
we have not yet got our own house in order in terms of agriculture, fisheries, transport, energy and material consumption.
what we need, for example, is a un convention that requires multinational companies to publish a social and environmental report that is audited by independent auditors.
it is also necessary that the large companies commit themselves, perhaps in 5 or 10 years' time, to apply the same environmental standards outside europe as they do inside.
south africa and namibia have no environmental legislation, let alone enforcement.
we cannot wait until we have a global environmental agreement.
a green label for sustainable wood and a red label for faulty, unsustainably produced wood.
i hope that mrs wallström will take part in the preparatory meetings in cancun and that she will represent europe at that summit in cancun in a year's time, because that is the only way we can show that we take sustainable development seriously.
- mr president, i see sustainable development as a translation of the mandate given to mankind by god to cultivate and preserve the earth.
the balance between social, economic and environmental components is of great importance.
the result of johannesburg is an action plan which places more emphasis on economic objectives than on environmental ones.
ten years ago, a legal framework for climate and biodiversity was established in rio.
the status quo was adopted 10 years ago in the field of biodiversity.
now in johannesburg - alexander de roo said it - this objective has been diluted to a slower decline in biodiversity.
the commission has also failed to reach any concrete agreements on renewable energy.
so despite the high european ambitions, and this is certainly not a criticism of the commissioners, global sustainable development has not received any additional impetus.
poverty reduction can create space for environmental protection, because indeed if one has no food and no shelter and no clean drinking water, then environmental protection is a matter of later concern.
in other words: we must create a support base for environmental protection and that is why our first task is to do something about poverty reduction.
if the agreement in the johannesburg action plan that trade policy must not be disruptive to the development of poor countries and to the environment is taken seriously, this will have far-reaching consequences for european agricultural and trade policy.
mr president, many people are satisfied with the outcome of the united nations conference on sustainable development in johannesburg.
this is a prerequisite, however, if we remember mrs brundtland's efforts to arrive at a good definition of sustainable development.
this form of transport requires a lot of space, is noisy and contributes significantly to the production of greenhouse gases.
moving to other modes of transport would be too expensive, and these alternatives also have their capacity limits and ecological drawbacks.
these points are now used as arguments for distributing subsidies for the limitation of pollution and congestion on the roads.
road transport will then make the taxpayer pay for the necessary environmental investments and the demand for motorway space will continue to increase.
if we continue to allow saddam hussein to ignore un resolutions, he will become a great danger to the environment and will marginalise the un security council itself.
only in a politically calm environment can the court work towards greater legitimacy and hopefully bring about a gradual abandonment of its objections by countries such as the united states.
- mr president, i think that mrs hautala has again made a very important report which has received a lot of support in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
but the council of environment ministers was not flexible enough.
the tractors benefit equally from this clean fuel and that also means less air pollution from those tractors.
even with old tractors that don't have new catalysts yet, there's an environmental benefit.
it is also important for industry to know the precise requirements now, rather than having to wait until 2005. i would therefore call on the christian democrats to look at this again and perhaps to put their hands over their hearts and to agree with the whole environment committee.
i can tell you that those boats make a lot of noise and emit a lot of emissions, much more than cars.
a little less noise, a little less emissions.
the fact that they are not being used at the moment means that we are obliged to protect certain areas of environmental concern.
i also suggest that the commission should look at this when we are going to revise this directive, because then it is possible to have really clean boats, which make almost no noise, which produce almost no emissions, and which also do not leak, do not produce annoying circles, which are not only ugly to the face but also affect the environment.
the commission's diligence on behalf of the council is reflected, among other things, in the statement that the permanent and sustainable implementation of the negotiation results should be monitored for the time being.
– mr president, i am pleased to be able to address the european parliament on the emissions trading proposal.
the european community and all the member states are now legally and politically committed to targets which limit greenhouse gas emissions.
emissions trading should be one of these tools.
if emissions trading is not used, the member states will have to use other policies and measures.
the european climate change programme is currently examining measures with stakeholders and emissions trading was among those identified as preferable.
we are talking about using a market-oriented instrument for the first time as an eu environment policy instrument.
with this in mind, the commission proposed a straightforward scheme that was mandatory from the start, concentrated on a limited but considerable number of key actors and which focused on co2, the main greenhouse gas.
the big prize before us is the establishment of an eu-wide scheme that will be extensive and will cover approximately half the co2 emissions of the fifteen current member states, candidate countries that will be member states by the time this directive enters into force, and countries of the european economic area.
in an era of increasingly integrated markets, the european institutions cannot stand back and let each country develop different national emissions trading schemes.
we should all be concerned about the impact on the internal market if different systems were to develop, and the possibility of fragmentation in the evolving internal market in greenhouse gas emission allowances.
individual national schemes are not big enough on their own to maximise the economic benefits of emissions trading.
therefore we need an emissions trading system which operates across the whole eu.
emissions trading uses market forces to ensure that reductions are made where it is cheapest and everyone benefits from these cheaper options.
those who make these reductions are rewarded for doing so and those who do not have such cheap options can buy allowances for less than it would cost them to reduce emissions themselves.
emissions trading for sulphur and nitrous oxide emissions was so successful in the us that the us continues to develop emissions trading for pollutants other than greenhouse gases.
if we can demonstrate that emissions trading can also be applied to greenhouse gases, we will be able to show the us a way in which it may rejoin the international process in limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
if emissions trading is a good idea, then it makes sense to start as soon as is practicable.
to maximise the cost-effectiveness of emissions trading, a number of preconditions are necessary: first, there must be clear rules; second, clear targets must be set for operators by allocating a fixed number of allowances according to fair and transparent criteria; third, the market should be as large as possible and include both potential sellers and potential buyers; fourth, in order to ensure compliance with the rules a strong framework is necessary.
i should like to point out that it has become clear during the process that the proposal on emissions trading is controversial.
i am referring in particular to the extension of the time limit in article 11, the adjustment of the penalty system in article 16 and the way in which member states tax the emissions trading system in article 16 (4).
it is therefore regrettable that the environment committee has not been able to reach agreement on the way in which the rights will be allocated from 2008 onwards.
it remains of great importance that we remain alert to measures that member states may take to intervene in an emissions trading market through their own regulations and taxes.
the resistance to an emissions trading system will persist among various parties and will encourage circumvention of the rules.
it is therefore not possible that the lack of clarity in the directive means that emissions trading is doomed to failure.
the following are therefore very important in the case of emissions trading: the proof of the pudding is in the eating.
we must work on the ambition to combat climate change and we must do this in an economically and socially responsible way.
firstly, we wanted to maintain the environmental integrity of the proposal and strengthen it where possible.
we therefore support the proposal by jorge moreira da silva to introduce a cap, an absolute ceiling, so that we can be sure that emissions are indeed going down.
we are in principle in favour of cooperation in this field with eastern european countries and developing countries, but in a way which excludes the use of sinks and nuclear energy.
i believe that it is not at all attractive for companies to opt out, because these companies have to reduce their co2 emissions anyway.
those who do fall within the system can - if they fail to reduce emissions - buy emission allowances on the market.
perhaps that is why it is a good idea to withdraw amendment no 81. ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that we can report in new delhi on progress in european climate policy.
it is also very important that we give the concept of sustainable development a boost after johannesburg.
with this report on tradable emission allowances we are doing justice to the environment, but also to economic and social principles.
today we have the opportunity to choose sustainable development.
and this is where the european emissions trading system comes in.
it will account for almost 50% of europe's co2 emissions.
in the united states, there has been a lot of discussion about carbon trading, but no positive decision-making.
this is very necessary because for ten years we have been talking about the european energy tax in vain.
this emissions trading is really the european energy tax in a different coat.
a better system than the energy-carbon tax.
my group, the green group, has managed to get two important amendments through the committee on the environment.
they are very interested in joining an international carbon trading system.
the transport sector in particular is very important because we see that our national governments are failing to reduce the co2 emissions of the transport sector.
- mr president, in recent months we have seen a heated debate in this house and elsewhere on the greenhouse effect.
is the use of fossil fuels and the increased concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere a serious danger or is it just a pipe dream?
indeed, recent research shows that the role of human-caused co2 emissions is limited and that emissions trading can make a limited contribution to reducing co2 emissions, but that it does not actually solve the problem.
is emissions trading then like building a castle in the air?
the approach which says that reducing co2 emissions is of limited importance in reducing the greenhouse effect is, in my view, wrong.
if it turns out that the role of humans in causing the greenhouse effect is minimizing, then emissions trading has done one thing, and that is to make us more conscious and more economical with our natural resources.
comparing energy consumption to determine the allocation of emission allowances is an additional incentive for companies to take measures to reduce energy consumption.
this will enable industry to work in an innovative way to reduce co2 emissions from energy consumption by comparing each other and historical data.
this is a greater incentive than the introduction of an energy tax and it also imposes a lot of social responsibility on entrepreneurs and industry.
all the proposals made in recent times to weaken the directive and limit its scope are therefore not a constructive contribution to a better energy policy.
after all, reducing energy consumption is also a sensible objective from an economic point of view.
i am therefore sorry to say that many amendments have been tabled which, if adopted, will seriously impede the operation of the emissions trading system.
amendment no 97 on the co-incineration of waste should also be rejected, because it increases the unequal playing field between waste incineration plants and co-incineration plants.
solutions for a better living environment and a better future are often not readily available, especially in today's economic climate.
but it is not just the economic climate that is decisive.
i am convinced that this is a crucial factor in our commitment to a sustainable use of our earth's resources.
emissions trading may be a means of doing so.
i would like to thank him and commend him for his great expertise, but also for the persistence with which he is trying to make the emissions trading system a success.
the proposal is a development of kyoto, which agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i am proud to say that the emissions trading system in my member state is already functioning well.
a good emissions trading system must meet a number of conditions: it must not discriminate between firms and sectors and it must reward those who are ahead of the curve for the measures already taken.
the main disadvantage of grandfathering is that the rights are allocated free of charge at the outset on the basis of the emissions at that time.
such a system of grandfathering does not take into account the reductions in energy consumption that have already taken place on the dutch market, but certainly also on the german market and in a number of other countries.
we must therefore strive for more competition on the european market and one of the ways of doing this is, for example, to make generic medicines available earlier, on which a sensible compromise has been reached in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
my group is very pleased that the european commission's proposal to allow advertising of prescription medicines for aids, asthma and diabetes has been defeated in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
when they leave the body, they're often still toxic, even to the environment.
that is why my group is very pleased that the environment will now also be taken into account in the assessment of new medicines.
firstly, it is unreasonable to reduce excise duties on biofuels before the full environmental impact of the introduction of these biofuels in road transport is known.
the main difference between alternative fuels and so-called traditional fuels is that alternative fuels are both renewable and clean energy sources.
i certainly welcome a move towards less toxic fuels for the environment, but not in the way proposed in the report.
the latter group helps to reduce the risk of environmental scandals, corruption, financial crime, war preparations and dictatorial actions.
so it is about the structural funds, agriculture, environmental policy, research, measures to combat social exclusion, the reconstruction of war zones, and we are not talking about peanuts but we are talking about an amount of around 100 billion euros.
but still no one dares to say openly that the eu subsidies may be partly a waste of money.
my group is opposed to this in principle anyway, because we prefer to support renewable energy.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is right to oppose advertising for aids, asthma and diabetes medicines, unlike the commission.
tariff barriers, and in particular non-tariff barriers such as health and environmental requirements, make access to the european market difficult.
- mr president, the protection of biodiversity is one of the most important but also one of the most difficult tasks.
we are constantly faced with situations where it is not the right time to choose biodiversity.
destruction is against all ideas of sustainable use.
the signal that the european parliament is taking the protection of biodiversity seriously.
that the european parliament now commits itself to doing everything within the european union to preserve biodiversity.
the promise that we have to make our own use of biodiversity.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection unanimously proposes that elephants should be fully protected again.
the commission considers that the proposals are well balanced and will contribute to the achievement of the community's objective of improving the protection of human health and the environment in importing countries, in particular developing countries, from hazardous chemicals, without impeding the smooth application of the convention.
the commission is grateful for the support given to the proposals by the committee on the environment.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted 15 amendments.
the legal basis of the regulation has been changed from internal market to environment.
as it turned out that the council shared the view of the committee on the environment, i, as rapporteur, tried to complete the legislative process in the first reading.
the council adopted most of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment.
block 3 contains the amendments of the committee on the environment which have been accepted by the council, so we must vote in favour of them.
such an assessment is fundamental to ensure that the proposed system can be sustainable in practice.
companies that spend the least on their workforce and the environment will be able to outperform their competitors, rich countries will continue to get richer at the expense of poorer ones, and the excluded group will continue to grow, both nationally and globally.
especially when we consider that humans have a limited impact on co2 emissions.
it is therefore not surprising that man-made emissions have a limited impact on the total.
but we have a duty to reduce as much as possible these emissions.
i welcome the attention paid to wind energy, cooperation with third countries and emissions trading.
the eu is already a leader in emissions trading.
parliament has opted for a clear and unambiguous system to come into force in 2005. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector.
the link with the overall energy policy is of course very important.
i would like to point out that the danger of calculating our wealth is to use the carbon pools in the ocean, for example, as a basis for accounting.
let us hope that the climate conference in new delhi will lead to the ratification of the russian and canadian governments.
but also - as has already been said - equal rights to emit co2 per citizen of the world at a sustainable level, which is also stated in the resolution of parliament.
that would mean that india could double its emissions, that china would have to stabilize, that europe would have to reduce by 80 percent, and that the united states would have to reduce by 90 percent.
global burden sharing is needed if we are to make real progress in the fight against climate change.
-the reform of the common agricultural policy is a necessity given the high costs, environmental degradation and the disastrous effect on developing countries.
in order not to deliberately upset nature, we must also have an effective climate policy.
we need to reduce co2 emissions drastically.
a majority of this parliament has been advocating for years that environmental costs should be passed on in product prices.
in the air transport sector in particular, environmental taxes must be included in the price of the ticket.
but so far the european union is failing, there is no climate tax.
every time you fly, you can buy a climate certificate to offset the co2 emissions.
the dutch delegation in the socialist group has decided to support this initiative and to buy climate certificates for air travel in strasbourg this week.
we had a long discussion on this in the committee on the environment six months ago.
mr president, i could almost agree with the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, mr busk, when he says that fisheries policy is primarily a matter of international conventions and everything that happens outside them.
if we look at the marine environment - and i am also speaking here as the shadow rapporteur for mr souchet's report, whom i would like to congratulate on his report and the balanced way in which he has presented it - it is clear that, when it comes to the implementation of environmental requirements in fisheries policy, only a very small part is determined by fisheries policy.
i wonder if we can say that about the environment committee in the same way.
at the same time, the importance of the fishing environment is of course recognised within the committee on fisheries and also within my own group.
the reason is that the environment, including the sea, determines what can be caught.
this means that when the marine environment is in a bad way, the fishing sector in particular is hit the hardest.
at the same time, the sector is suffering from severe pressures and it is important to strike a balance between the economic and the ecological aspects.
a well-motivated fisheries sector can make a major contribution to a better marine environment, and so can the legislation needed to achieve this.
we will therefore strongly recommend that parliament vote in favour of the report, on the assumption that, as the rapporteur has pointed out, it is essential for the motivation of the fisheries sector, including environmental legislation, that the economic and social aspects of fisheries are adequately taken into account.
- mr president, focusing on sustainability is the whole future of fisheries.
i am also taking part in this debate as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, and i am therefore following the matter closely.
these concern, for example, food safety, free movement, environmental problems and their transfrontier approach.
but for the moment i would like to go a little deeper into the third priority: the commission has already while i am of course glad that sustainable development is still a priority for the european commission, this is not the end of the story.
it is solemnly promised that special attention will be paid to the environmental impact of new legislation.
i am naturally very interested in the communication on the incorporation of the environment into eu legislation.
i do not see much of an initiative in the area of environmental legislation.
this may not be unwise given the problems of implementing, implementing and enforcing current environmental legislation.
we now see a widening gap between rich and poor, the disappearance of many jobs, the deterioration of public services, the unbridled proliferation of automobiles, growth plans that clash with environmental protection, and a growing dependence on expensive imports and foreign companies.
this is a way of protecting the citizen and of combating unwanted waste.
the climate in the european union, the business climate, and also ethics and the environment.
after all, did we not already adopt the purvis report in march 2000 which aims to improve the business climate in europe?
there is still a great deal to be done in europe to create a favourable climate for access to start-up capital and patent rights.
another major obstacle to progress and implementation is concern about ethics and the environment.
the employment impact assessment should therefore not take the form of the bank's environmental department.
sustainable environmental policy is an explicit task of the bank.
we are therefore against comparing the employment barometer with the environment department.
i would like to stress the importance of support for the implementation of environmental legislation.
when european competitiveness is damaged by environmental measures vis-à-vis non-eu countries, i think it is a good thing that the costs are borne by society on a limited scale and under clear conditions.
this is not the case for crossborder environmental and public health issues.
in addition, they are also encouraged to take on important public tasks in the postal, energy supply and public transport sectors.
these services are essential to the well-being of people and to the preservation of our environment, but they are also, for the most part, in perpetual difficulty.
i would like to thank once again all those colleagues who have worked with great commitment and energy on this system and who were willing to support the european commission with this proposal.
it is a bad service to the people on the coast of spain, it is a bad service to fisheries, it is a bad service to the environment and it is also a bad service to the water transport to which we want to give so much attention.
even if the winner is cheaper by imposing low wages, poor working conditions, animal suffering, child labour and the lack of measures against environmental pollution.
in this design, the disadvantages to be expected in terms of labour and the environment were to be automatically offset by an increase in profits and employment.
from an environmental point of view, this is somewhat justified, at least as far as good intentions are concerned.
i doubt that a ruthlessly liberal policy can have any positive consequences for the environment, but i support this attempt to pay more attention to the environment than the commission proposes.
this has been possible because the environmental and societal costs of air traffic have not been passed on to passengers.
competition in air transport threatens to bring rail transport to a standstill over medium distances, despite investments in high-speed trains for distances up to 1000 kilometres and despite the commission's 1999 communication on 'air transport and the environment' and the white paper on transport policy for 2010'.
despite the low fares, which cannot be offset by negative environmental and noise impacts, there is still a political majority in favour of further price reductions.
- (nl) the decline in fish stocks at sea is alarming, as a consequence of environmental pollution and overfishing.
over time, among the much better educated younger generation, interest in the welfare of pets, farm animals and animals living in their natural environment has increased and animal experiments have become less prominent.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
as rapporteur for an opinion for the committee on the environment, i have already tried to extend the directive to other victims and to increase the availability of company data.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
moreover, the safety of irradiated food is confirmed by a 50-year history of research by the world health organization and the international atomic energy agency, among others.
in the committee on the environment, the resolution has been improved by amendment in the right direction.
we have always regretted that no sustainable solution to the north korean energy problem has ever been found, namely investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
but if i have listened to the commissioner, there are no additional posts in the 500 posts going to the environment dg, and i would find that very unfortunate, because it is of course also very important that environmental rules are actually observed and monitored in the applicant countries.
so perhaps she could come back to it for a moment, because we have all agreed that there are three priorities for the european union, one of which is sustainable development.
so it would be very sensible if a substantial number of those 500 posts were also to be devoted to strengthening the environment dg.
to reduce this dependence, it is necessary to invest more in research into and use of renewable energy sources.
this too can cause considerable damage to the environment and has so far remained out of sight in the imo context.
my party advocates maintaining or increasing public spending to improve public services, protect the environment and strengthen solidarity with the people living in the poorest parts of the world.