i would particularly stress the position of rejection of any proposal to introduce a system of individual quotas, or individual quotas transferable at union level, which would result in the privatisation of fisheries resources and the concentration and verticalisation of catches, with negative consequences at socioeconomic and environmental level, and i hope that the plenary will not change this decision.
we therefore voted for all the positive proposals which aimed to include in public tenders other objectives than simply the lowest price, but without choosing the best proposal in terms of environmental, employment, disability protection, etc.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
but beyond this environmental message calling for action, the adoption of the kyoto protocol also sends other political signals that should be highlighted.
thirdly, it has given rise to a new economic paradigm, the carbon economy.
the tonne of carbon will now have a market price and carbon dioxide emissions will be a cost to be reflected in the price of all products.
it is true that the european union has already reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 4% between 1990 and 1999. however, the performance of the vast majority of member states is still very poor and there are sectors for which the situation is very worrying, such as transport, where emissions are expected to increase by up to 50% over the next ten years.
in this context, the community instruments being presented by the commission, in particular the european climate change programme and the emissions trading directive, on which the european parliament will be voting later this semester, are to be welcomed.
the problem is to be solved by cutting emissions in industry and the energy sector, not by cutting emissions in transport or building.
the strategy should therefore be to reorient economic policies by internalising the environmental costs of the 'greenhouse effect' in all economic sectors.
now, this will only be possible if we introduce some measures considered to be consensual such as the production of renewable energy, such as energy efficiency, such as public transport, alongside clearly unpopular measures such as the end of subsidies to the fossil fuel industry and the taxation of energy and carbon dioxide emissions in the transport sectors.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in its statement, the european union also urged the colombian government to continue and intensify its efforts to disarm the paramilitaries and bring those responsible for the crimes committed, whoever they may be, to the full extent of justice, to continue - both at local and regional level, and with respect for biodiversity and the environment - the efforts already begun to combat illicit cultivation, production and trafficking of narcotic drugs and to draw up and implement urgently, and independently of the peace process, a programme of decisive socioeconomic reforms.
the committee on industry calls on the commission to ensure that a european energy and communications market is built up which respects universal service, gives priority to energy efficiency and research, energy recovery and the use of renewable energies.
the committee on industry draws attention to the effects of energy prices and taxation in the peripheral and overseas regions.
it recommends that indigenous energies and clean and safe technologies for the exploitation of coal, nuclear energy and hydrocarbons be developed.
in addition, there are costs for adapting rum production units to environmental standards in accordance with community rules.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately sustainable development is still a cause to be pursued and not so much a reality to be improved.
in this context, it was very important that the gothenburg council adopted a european strategy for sustainable development and added the environmental dimension to the lisbon process.
this decision, like the work to rescue the kyoto protocol, has made clear the european union's leadership in the environmental field.
third, it should adopt an ambitious set of environmental indicators to serve as a reference for the annual assessment.
the rapporteur, mr van den broek, has made it clear that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
- mr president, the basis of this report is the decision to liberalise the internal energy market by privatising the public electricity and gas sectors that still exist in the european union.
forgetting the negative experiences of similar processes, such as the one in california, the opening up, liberalization and competition of these strategic sectors is insisted upon in order to satisfy the interests of economic groups, even though it is known that this is putting at risk fundamental aspects of a universal public service: the right to a supply of energy of good quality at reasonable prices and the commitment to the development of alternative and renewable energies.
while these reports express some concern about universal access, minimum environmental rules, consumer information and choice and guaranteed supply in each country, the truth is that the move towards full liberalisation and market opening will challenge these concerns.
the same applies at structural level, by suggesting and supporting the application of instruments to improve the general economic environment, in particular in training, access to public services, the creation of the knowledge society and the adaptation of labour markets.
it is urgent to achieve a more effective cooperation practice and to achieve more success in the objective of sustainable development of various areas of the globe as a basic condition for a future with more security and more peace.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution of the atmosphere by nitrates and their salts, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january 1993, is a very important one.
this amendment has two implications: firstly, to accept the fund's financing not only of tobacco prevention measures and experimental measures for conversion to other activities, but also to maintain the financing of agronomic research on tobacco varieties which are less harmful to the environment and health; and secondly, to raise the rate of withholding of aid from 2% to 3%, thus rejecting both the 2% status quo and the commission's proposal of 5%.
permanent schemes, periodically adapted, backed up by appropriate 'financial envelopes' are needed, not only for agriculture and fisheries, but also for energy, the environment, communications, new technologies, and aid to small and medium-sized enterprises.
- (pt) as i said in the resolution of the group of the european united left, to which we are attached, the barcelona summit addressed very important issues, particularly as regards the continuation and acceleration of privatisation, liberalisation in the energy, transport and telecommunications sectors and important aspects relating to workers' rights, also insisting on strict adherence to the stability pact.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will take the initiative in the area of the environment.
- mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr di lello finuoli and mr oomen-ruijten on the excellent work they have done in converging their efforts to create instruments to combat the increasing scale and frequent cross-border effects of environmental crime.
i cannot help but recall one of the latest eurobarometer surveys, which confirms that the environment, together with safety, health and unemployment, is one of the major concerns of the citizens of the european union.
we therefore have an obligation to help find solutions that can address these concerns and that can ensure protection of the environment and the health of citizens, while seeking to raise the quality of life for all.
on the one hand, we have an initiative put forward by denmark (in 2000) for the adoption of a council framework decision on the fight against serious environmental crime, which proposes that the member states adopt concerted measures to protect the environment in the framework of criminal law, including effective criminal investigations and prosecutions, as well as effective cooperation in police, criminal and administrative matters, that is, to establish an acquis on criminal sanctions against environmental crimes.
on the other hand, we have an initiative by the commission (in 2001) to create a directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law on the basis of article 175 of the ec treaty.
this proposal is intended to apply to activities which are in breach of community environmental legislation and/or rules adopted by the member states to enforce it.
the adoption of a first pillar instrument, since legislation on environmental matters is a community competence.
- (pt) in order to guarantee lasting peace and international security, there is clearly a need to move from a security programme determined by military considerations to a civil security system that addresses the economic, social, ecological, ethnic and cultural causes of conflict, and to adopt a preventive approach to neutralize and address the causes of predictable and acute situations of conflict in europe and the world.
i therefore congratulate mr fatuzzo on the preparation of this report which highlights the urgency of addressing the problem of the sustainability of pension systems in the future.
i congratulate the committee on the environment and its rapporteur, mr meyer, on the proposals he has put before us, which the committee on employment has made an effort to include, despite the limited legal possibilities.
the union set itself the clear and imperative objective in lisbon in 2000 of making the european union the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world by 2010. achieving this objective requires, on the one hand, making full use of the potential resulting from the generalization of the information and knowledge society and the liberalisation of certain markets, particularly in the energy sector, and, on the other hand, defining and implementing public competition and competitiveness policies that create an environment conducive to sustained economic development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
the conditions must be created for the democratic rule of law to take root, respecting the rights of the opposition, freedom of the press, strengthening the transparency of public authorities, fighting corruption and arbitrariness, combating poverty and social exclusion and promoting the development of the country in a peaceful environment.
and in this context, given the importance of the financial aspect, i believe that the outcome of the world summit on sustainable development next september is somewhat limited in its desirable scope.
- (pt) as a general rule, the report deals with the question of the application of the pops in a positive manner, stressing the degree of compliance which varies greatly depending on the country and considering that the maintenance of the current aid for the modernisation and renewal of fleets is essential to make the multiannual guidance programmes operational and thus to achieve the priority objective of a sustainable balance between the resources available and their exploitation.
secondly, i would like to stress the need to develop efficient and sustainable transport infrastructure, with a view to facilitating access to remote regions such as island regions.
the increase in tourist flows and the consequent development of the sector depend on measures to facilitate accessibility, which, combined with a correct policy of promoting and exploiting environmental, historical and cultural resources, can be a crucial instrument in the development of these regions.
thirdly, i would stress the particular sensitivity and environmental richness of territories such as the outermost regions, which, while being a determining factor and a tourist attraction, require sustainable tourism.
it advocates a moderate wage policy combined with a budget deficit of 3% and 'the implementation of structural reforms in sectors of the economy, in particular in the goods and capital markets, including the pension sector, as well as in transport, energy, communications and labour markets'.
however, the report and, therefore, the resolution contain a clear call for the communitization of the esdp (paragraph 9), with which i do not agree, just as i consider inappropriate some heightened criticism of us foreign policy, which does not contribute to the climate of confidence necessary for the settlement of open questions, nor to the strengthening of the undisputed common heritage, which unites and must continue to unite europe and the usa.
method reasons, statement three: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment against pollution, the protection of the environment from industrial accidents, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks of pollution from industrial sources, the protection of the environment from the risks of pollution from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks of pollution from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks of pollution from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks of pollution from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks of pollution from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks of pollution from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks of industrial products, the protection of the environment from the risks of industrial products, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, and the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals.
on the contrary, the johannesburg conference gives us an opportunity to start anew, by making a global commitment to a development model that combines the economic, social and environmental dimensions.
secondly, that the political conditions be created for the united states to return to a common environmental effort; thirdly, that a greening of the economy be launched by internalizing environmental costs, decoupling economic growth from resource intensive use and focusing on cleaner technologies; fourthly, we hope that the conference will provide common answers to global problems and that, as in rio de janeiro, when the foundations were laid for the climate change conference, johannesburg will also lay the foundations for protocols and new institutions in other environmental fields such as water.
you cannot create a sustainable internet if the nodes in that network are obsolete.
we look to it with the necessary expectation and attach the importance due to an event which can or should lead the international community to establish an agenda effectively geared to the sustainable development of the planet, to the improvement of the quality of life and to the eradication of poverty, based on the agreements reached at the earth summit in rio.
it is now time to urge the member states and the commission to take a firm and decisive stand against the scourges that have struck the world and to promote guidelines and measures and to find ways of achieving equitable and sustainable development, combining environmental protection with the eradication of poverty.
the second concerns the negative aspects, revealing the difficulty for the european union to free itself from dependence on american interests, as shown by the rejection in plenary of the amendments we had tabled, in particular the proposal for an international inquiry into the health and environmental consequences of the american and british bombings of 1991, in particular as a result of the use of depleted uranium weapons.
the proposal, under the pretext of protecting the environment, is moving towards a sharp reduction in fishing effort and measures to reduce the volume of catches and reward the killing of vessels, without taking due account of the specificities and needs of each country.
the argument for the sustainability of resources is a very serious one, but it cannot be used to do things in a careless way and to underestimate the human and social dimension of the problem and, above all, to impose an unfair balance.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0180/2002) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 76/768/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to cosmetic products (15073/1/2001 - c5-0072/2002 - 2000/0077 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs dagmar roth-behrendt).
- (pt) the vote took place in the context of the committee on the environment's opinion on the aspects which have proved to be the most politically sensitive, namely: first, the immediate ban on the sale of new cosmetic products tested on animals, where there are valid alternative methods of testing; secondly, a total ban on the sale of all new cosmetic products tested on animals five years later; thirdly, the ban on animal testing by the end of 2004. it is well known that if the plenary follows the path traced by the committee on the environment, we would be in serious dispute with the council, which would in turn abandon the idea of banning both experimentation and marketing.
it is important to build bridges to save this conference, but let us be clear: on this journey to johannesburg there are many countries which are blocking, others are passive, and it is not too much to say that, objectively, only the european union is going to johannesburg with the will to build an ambitious global commitment to sustainable development.
leadership that aims to set concrete policies, timetables and targets in areas such as biodiversity, greening the economy, financing for developing countries, energy, water and trade.
the planned creation of the agency is in fact accompanied by other measures by which the commission aims at more effective protection of european shipping against the risks of accidents and protection of the seas against pollution.
the new agency is very important in our view because it will provide the member states and the commission with the technical and scientific support needed to enable them to apply community legislation effectively in the field of maritime safety and to prevent pollution from ships.
we also welcome the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment and public health concerning the basic principle of 'voluntary unpaid blood donation', the principle of subsidiarity and the professional qualifications of those working in this sector.
but it is also important to pay full attention to soils, which also make up terrestrial ecosystems and support their sustainable development.
it is these progresses, summarised here, and the dynamics they reveal, that allow us to maintain an optimistic position regarding the completion of the negotiations for hungary's accession to the european union within the envisaged timetable and, consequently, to see the presence of its 22 members in this house from the next parliamentary term in 2004.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
regional development programmes aim to promote employment competitiveness and the creation of conditions for sustainable development in the most disadvantaged regions of europe in an enlarged union.
but it is not sustainable in the long term because, not being extended to all agricultural production, it is highly discriminatory.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, fishing exploits renewable natural resources, it is true, but they are fragile and destructible.
we must therefore give all our energy to this drive.
- (pt) with this proposal, which the rapporteur has accepted, the commission intends above all to guarantee the financing of 12 priority projects in the energy sector, while ensuring that the barcelona conclusions on the liberalisation of the energy sector are put into practice.
the latter sin has two clear objectives: to use the rate of implementation as an argument for reducing community expenditure in the cohesion countries (this is true for cooperation and development policies) during the enlargement phase, satisfying the interests of the net taxpayer countries; the commission has also been active in the area of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency.
it is clear that the main aim at the moment is to avoid the worst, since the main thing was to maintain the moratorium on new authorizations in the field of gmos, because, as you know, they prevent a future option in that they constitute a point of no return with unforeseeable consequences in the fields of the environment, the economy and human and animal health.
this report ignores the current economic climate and again calls for more liberalization, privatization, integration of capital markets and, of course, more flexibility in labour; he considers that criticism of the ecb's behaviour towards the federal reserve is unfair, forgetting that the disinflationary policy followed contributed to unemployment as the restrictive monetary policy did not allow the full benefit of the period of economic growth in the second half of the 1990s, a criticism shared not only by various internationally renowned economists, such as solow, but also by the united nations economic commission for europe.
this is because there is no objective programme, there are no means, there are no guidelines and adequate measures (in particular, aimed at ensuring access to land and water for the population and, preferably, based on a concept of sustainable development in which the right to food sovereignty and support for family and community farming should be essential elements), there is no proper policy for the distribution of wealth and, above all, there is no political will, as was clearly demonstrated by the small number of heads of state and government from the developed countries present in rome.
we reaffirm once again the need for the european union to play an important role in defending the right of the poorest countries to protect their fisheries resources and to develop their rural economies, with a view to ensuring their food sovereignty in the context of a desirable sustainable development.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, protecting, preserving and conserving fisheries resources means respecting nature, considering the seas as precious and irreplaceable means of life, and defending life and biodiversity.
no marine environment should be left to predatory activities, and it is therefore surprising that a marine area as vast as the south-east atlantic should not be subject to the discipline and management of any kind of organisation.
it is also the case that the species concerned are, by their biological constitution and the environment in which they live, highly vulnerable.
the conservation of scarce but renewable resources is a vital issue, it is not too much to repeat.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
as we know, the importance of labour markets, resources, institutions and local authorities in harmonious and sustainable development is unequivocal.
local authorities, as the best of all, can and should act as agents of development, encouraging partnerships in the fields of tourism, culture, handicrafts and the environment, by participating in the setting up of joint ventures and micro-enterprises, involving young people, women and the unemployed.
- the proposal from the commission to the council (com (88) 0173 - c3-0318/98) for a regulation amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 laying down the procedure for the provision of community financial assistance in the field of the environment (com (88) 0173 - c3-0318/98) in the case of portugal, the azores and madeira were well deserving of this attention, since article 299 (2) of the treaty of amsterdam had been forgotten or had fallen into disuse.
women's organisations need to be given greater attention when addressing the issue of the social partners involved in policy-making for sustainable development and social cohesion.
it is not just a question of improving the standard of living of a people, but of the last chance to save many lives, especially children, who die every day of hunger and disease in the most scandalous silence, without the energy or the courage to even cry.
we therefore hope that the commission will take these proposals into account, in accordance with the principle of control of production and the positive effects of these proposals, both in the socioeconomic and environmental fields.
finally, safety should be the first concern of all those involved in the implementation of the single european sky, followed by environmental issues and efficiency.
- (pt) it is now generally recognised that cabin crew have a huge responsibility and an increasing importance for the safety of passengers, given the current civil aviation environment.
- (pt) as the rapporteur says, the monitoring and enforcement of community environmental law is currently very unsatisfactory.
in an area of increasing importance to european citizens, who are already aware of the importance of managing, rationalising and protecting the environment, there is a continuing cycle of gross attacks on the environment of all, which shows an inadequate legislative framework and an unsatisfactory coordination between operators and the community authorities.
the commission must therefore be able to 'consistently assess the overall situation in a policy area, for example waste management', in response to the ever-growing and persistent concerns of european citizens.
on the eve of the gloomy conclusions of the johannesburg summit, the european union is already facing the consequences of climate change and the failure to comply with the kyoto protocol.
in the medium term, i am also in favour of the commission's proposal to create a special fund for natural, technological and environmental disasters worth at least one billion euro.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we are well aware that the consequences of natural disasters of this kind, largely due to climate change, take on a transnational dimension and require the support and solidarity of the european union as a whole.
in this way we will make a valuable contribution to improving knowledge and understanding of cooperation instruments and to fostering the development of a climate of trust among judges and magistrates in the various national legal issues.
we naturally welcome the proposals for reform of the cap, which call into question the continuity of these intervention mechanisms, which have proved to be open invitations to fraud and counterfeiting, and are of doubtful effectiveness in supporting farmers' incomes, opting instead for direct support based on agricultural area and rural work using sustainable development criteria.
because this definition has been made as follows: the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the protection of the environment.
- (pt) as portugal, and more specifically the algarve coast, has already suffered from unprecedented marine pollution, i can only agree with the recommendation of the rapporteur, mr bakopoulos, and with all the initiatives of the european commission aimed at strengthening the legislative standards applicable to maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships, and at increasing the efficiency of the implementation of european policy in this field.
this new structure will involve a qualitative leap in the level of safety of european coasts and the fight against pollution caused by ships.
- (pt) the main message of the kyoto protocol is that the environmental costs of the greenhouse effect should be internalized in the economy.
this economic internalisation, which is already taking place in the industrial and energy sectors, notably through the european directive on emissions trading (the first reading of which will soon be voted by this parliament), must be extended to all economic sectors and activities.
for example, it is important to recognise the fundamental right of citizens to free choice in relation to gmos and to take account of the precautionary principle, beyond the protection of the environment and human health.
- (pt) continuous work is essential to ensure, also in the context of transboundary movements, an appropriate level of protection against the transfer, handling and safe use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) resulting from modern biotechnology, which may have adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, and thus to prevent risks to human health.
firstly, why has the commission decided to extend the coverage of this type of disaster to environmental and technological disasters in its proposal?
thus, balanced representation of men and women, in addition to being an imperative of democracy at the level of the social partners, will make the working environment and the organizational culture more favourable.
the planet is in a state of emergency, both in the environmental and social fields, and making the summit a reasonable outcome was not acceptable to this parliament.
in rio we stood for the concept of sustainable development, johannesburg was associated with action.
secondly, as regards the concept: sustainable development has linked the environment and poverty in a very intimate way.
and i think that was also a qualitative leap: eradicating poverty while at the same time stopping environmental degradation.
public and private are associated with this sustainable development goal.
on the negative side, of course, it was disappointing that there was no quantified target for renewable energy as well as for reversing biodiversity loss.
but i would add one point which was not mentioned by either the danish presidency or the commission, and which i consider negative: there has been no push for institutional reform in the area of the environment.
this summit could have been used to green existing institutions, the world bank, the world trade organization, but also to launch new institutions that would put globalization at the service of sustainable development.
i am thinking, for example, of a world environmental organization.
this time it was the other way around: the relationship with the danish presidency has been excellent, transparent, very cooperative and unfortunately this time we have not seen the same level of collaboration with the commission as we were used to in the conferences with commissioner wallström on climate change.
we had excellent cooperation at the climate change summits.
but at the same time we cannot forget or ignore the clear failures in many other areas, particularly in the field of renewable energy, on which the european union has invested so much, but where the results have been far below the desirable.
but fundamentally, the johannesburg summit did not clearly and objectively define a course, the course to be followed in order to achieve the central objective of the summit, and which was also its motto: sustainable development.
- (pt) i voted for this important report with an eye to the commission's worrying forecasts for a roughly 50% increase in road freight traffic by 2010. i fully share the objectives of the marco polo programme and the rapporteur's vision of reducing road congestion and improving the environmental performance of the world's transport system.
i too believe that congestion is a threat to both the environment and the vitality of the economy, which is why i am in favour of measures that reduce congestion and pollution, that stimulate the shift of freight from road to rail, inland waterways and short sea shipping.
these criticisms, which are not accompanied by proposals for political and financial measures to overcome the causes of a certain european subalternity, could well be summed up in the strengthening of strategic actions of this kind, which would better help to balance relations between the two continents in an environment of cooperation and the sharing of values which are common to both.
i would therefore like to express my unconditional support for the rapporteur, mr callanan, and for the commission's proposal to make pleasure boats more compatible with the existing environmental standards, in particular the emissions and noise of the engines, which are so damaging to the environment of the region and to the well-being of holidaymakers.
only this cooperation has enabled a good compromise to be reached in the committee on the environment.
i believe that this directive creates the conditions for climate change and the kyoto protocol to be no longer a purely theoretical concern in europe but an essential part of the environmental and economic policy of all the member states.
in the end, this directive will form the basis of the carbon economy; the winner will be the one who can achieve the same production levels with fewer emissions.
fourthly, we think it is important that the directive covers all six greenhouse gases and not just carbon dioxide, provided that the inclusion of these six gases is made on the basis of transparent criteria which are identical to those used for carbon dioxide.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
i think the environment committee has made a good compromise on legal participation, a binding system with the temporary exclusion - limited in time and limited in terms - of some companies in the first period.
i think that the adoption of amendments nos 75 and 81 is extremely unjustified and even dangerous: they basically mean turning a binding system into a voluntary system and therefore increasing the distortion of competition, reducing market liquidity, increasing the price of the tonne of carbon dioxide and reducing the economic efficiency of the system.
however, as the commission's proposal on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading was not sufficiently amended, we abstained in the vote because we do not accept this principle; we also have reservations about various other amendments.
or will mr prodi do so to meet the objectives of sustainable economic development, of more jobs with rights and greater social inclusion?
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
as regards a legislative proposal which has generally been agreed by the various parties concerned, i would just like to stress that the adoption of this legislative instrument will make it possible to assess the common rail sector in europe within the framework of the common transport policy and thus to take informed decisions, in particular as regards greater future aid for the speed, comfort and safety of rail traffic within the member states, between them and between member states and third countries, as an alternative to road and air congestion, to the benefit of users and, undoubtedly, the environment itself.
i believe that this must be the way to regain the confidence of economic agents, a prerequisite for a genuine area of freedom, security and justice, and a step towards the most dynamic and competitive economic area in the world, based on knowledge and capable of guaranteeing sustainable growth, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion (lisbon strategy).
in an overall positive environment for the consumer, there are still (apart from safety problems) aspects which require some attention and which often cause justified complaints from these same users, especially as regards the disturbances caused by delays or cancellations of flights.
it therefore considers that the construction and maintenance of energy infrastructure must normally be subject to market rules.
although the rapporteur supports the objective of competition and the completion of the internal energy market in the light of universal service obligations, his options for supporting the financing of priority projects, even in difficult areas, cannot exceed 20% and only in exceptional cases.
- (pt) the proposal we have debated and voted on today on the revision of a set of guidelines on trans-european networks in the energy sector provides for a redefinition of the priorities for trans-european networks (tens), by identifying, among the projects of common interest, the priority projects of european interest which will receive priority when funding is decided under the regulation on the granting of financial support to the tens.
the priority project category covers a set of energy network projects with a sufficiently significant impact on the completion of the internal market and the strengthening of security of supply.
i therefore consider it essential to support energy production projects based on renewable energy sources, within the framework of the endogenous potential of each of these regions and to frame them in the priority axes.
- (pt) i think it is essential that the regulation of transeuropean networks in the energy sector complies not only with criteria of security of energy supply and non-distortion of competition, but also with criteria of environmental sustainability.
i therefore argue that the challenge must be to produce energy from renewable sources, as this is the sector with the least environmental externalities.
it is also important to focus on research into new energy sources in order to reduce their production costs, and on decentralized sources.
this category will include a limited number of energy network projects with a highly significant impact from the point of view of the essential energy policy criteria, namely the completion of the internal market and the strengthening of security of supply.
i also followed the line of increasing the connection of renewable energy production to interconnected energy networks, which will lead to the desirable increase in the production and consumption of these energies.
i think the emissions trading directive is helping the european campaign to persuade the americans to join the kyoto protocol.
let's say that with emissions trading, we can show that it is possible to meet kyoto at a lower economic cost.
the commission has shown initiative, in particular with the emissions trading directive and the european climate change programme, but i think we have a serious political problem here: the commission's proposal is that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations.
the text should in particular require the programme to be terminated and its activities to be verified as complying with the rules laid down by the international atomic energy agency.
however, there is now an impoverishment of marine biodiversity and the progressive destruction of habitats and ecosystems.
fisheries are now subject to a double requirement: the ecological requirement to preserve fish stocks and the political and social requirement to maintain the economic activities of the sea fishing sector, which requires that these activities be closely linked to the state of the resources and not assume a predatory or simple collecting character as if we were still in the paleolithic.
it was a happy inspiration to combine the souchet report on the community action plan on the integration of environmental protection requirements into the common fisheries policy, the stevenson report on the reform of the common fisheries policy and the busk report on the control and repression of illegal acts.
the reform of the common fisheries policy must be a compromise that balances all aspects: social, economic, cultural and ecological.
- madam president, i also support mr souchet's report and i am sorry about the pollution caused by the tanker in galicia.
on the positive side, i would stress three main aspects: - first, sustainable fisheries management must be based on a balanced set of measures, not only on the simplistic solution of fleet reduction but also on greater selectivity of gear, the appropriate use of pops, tacs and quotas.
this fishery does not allow for an efficient and sustainable management of fishery resources.
on the one hand, it is concerned with the role it attributes to the participation of fishermen and their trade associations in research and information on the state of fisheries resources, given that fishermen share the concern to protect the environment, since they are among the main victims of its degradation.
i support the maintenance of public aid for the modernisation of the fishing fleet, which has a direct impact on working conditions, safety and product quality, thus rejecting a philosophy which, under the guise of the environment, intends to challenge aid in what we could call a liberal 'greening'.
- (pt) i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is the right approach to the problem of protecting the marine environment.
they are of course motivated by the urgent need to ensure the sustainability of their activity.
they are the main victims of damage to the marine environment.
unlike the commission's approach, which focuses on a global and uniform reduction of the pressure exerted by fishing on resources, without taking into account the specificities of the different species and areas, the position adopted by the european council in santa maria de feira, which advocated a sustainable balance between resources and exploitation, should be addressed.
in addition, we should not forget that the fisheries sector is directly exposed to the often enormous consequences of the most devastating marine pollution and, in particular, to accidents linked to the loading of dangerous products, as in the case of the very recent sinking of the prestige, on the west coast of galicia, a dramatic extension of the erika.
the potential development of these indicates that there will be major changes in the markets for medicines, food, agriculture and the environment in the coming years.
we are in favour of maintaining the de facto moratorium on the approval of new genetically modified organisms in the food chain, which has existed since 1998, and we categorically reject the report's support for lifting the moratorium, which we consider to be a real environmental crime.
beyond the profound ethical and human rights issues related to the commodification and patenting of life and natural heritage, it must be borne in mind that the release of gmos into the environment is an irreversible and uncontrollable factor with direct consequences in the pollution of agricultural activity, both conventional and biological, as well as in the regression of biodiversity, and has incalculable effects at the level of ecosystems.
on behalf of the portuguese socialist delegation, i would like to thank the house, and in particular the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, for the support they have given him, which has been a powerful intellectual stimulus to his recovery.
it will also allow for upstream control, both through the obligation for companies to prove the effectiveness of the product and the absence of risks to human health, animal health and the environment, and through the definition of conditions for the use and marketing of additives.
- (pt) we voted against the report for the following reasons: - it insists on accelerating the liberalisation of energy, transport and postal markets and regrets the lack of progress in the effective liberalisation of gas and electricity, which we reject; - we reject its position on the takeover of private electricity companies by public companies in liberalised or liberalised sectors, which it intends to challenge; - we do not agree with its proposal to reduce state aid and its approach to state funding of private providers of services of general interest; - it does not take into account the social consequences of mergers, including employment, or the loss of a dominant position, neglecting the participation of workers in the decision-making process; - we do not agree with its support for the policy of co-decision in competition matters.
it is desirable that this should be possible in the short term, as only in this way can a comprehensive and informed analysis be made in order to decide whether to reduce the level of aid granted and/or to reorient it towards horizontal objectives of common interest, such as research and development, the environment, smes, training and employment.
in the concrete circumstances which have shaped this report, i welcome the clear reduction in the amount of state aid granted and its reorientation towards horizontal objectives - smes, environment, research and development, employment and training - which are outside the narrow framework of economic efficiency, but rather favour better preparation of economic agents and member states in the context of the internal market.
and while it is regrettable that no result has been achieved, it is nevertheless worth noting that the definition of the clean development mechanism and the procedures for monitoring emissions have been improved.
there was a clear attempt by some delegations, notably the us delegation, to push back the debate on climate change in 1997 to a time when there were neither targets nor protocols for action.
the consequences of climate change will be particularly severe in developing countries.
the choice for us remains clear: firstly, the kyoto protocol is the only instrument capable of mitigating climate change.
the response to this must be based on four pillars: mobilizing all means to control and reduce the effects of pollution; rigorously investigating the emerging risks of the ship sinking with 60 000 tonnes of fuel in its tanks and keeping them under strict control; making those responsible pay; reaching out with concern to the frightened and anxious populations, providing them with all the necessary support, and reviving the local economy.
we must ensure that, in the face of any similar emergency in the future, all the competent authorities will be able to respond promptly and courageously to the most effective responses in terms of anticipating real environmental damage and risks and thus limiting and controlling them as effectively as possible.
at such times we need to focus on what is most urgent: the need to mobilise technical and financial resources to minimise environmental damage, regenerate ecosystems and support economic activities affected by this accident.
in the immediate future, we must also focus our energy on controlling and mitigating the effects of pollution, and on urgently helping the frightened and worried communities that have been affected.
what is destroying fisheries resources in certain areas, commissioner, is not fishing but pollution.
the construction of europe is, we must admit, an increasingly complex process, not only because of its internal dynamics, which are subject to the natural conflict between national sovereignty and the aim of consolidating european sovereignty, but also because it is taking place in an international environment increasingly subject to the consequences and dangers of globalisation, the threat of terrorism, violent conflicts almost everywhere, financial, environmental and energy crises, unemployment, exclusion and poverty.
finally, it is worth noting the significant increase in the financial contribution granted and, in connection with this, not only the corresponding increase in fishing opportunities, but also the establishment of a partnership with angola for the responsible and sustainable development of fisheries, including the development of scientific research, monitoring, artisanal fishing, training and aquaculture.
- (pt) i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need to streamline and synchronise the procedures for coordinating economic, social and employment policies, not forgetting the environmental dimension, so as to give them a medium- and long-term perspective.
it is around this issue that the rapporteur seeks to improve a little the inadmissible position of the european commission, which systematically forgets the social and environmental aspects.
2°- it is also a question of guaranteeing the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the seas of the ors.
the point is that any technology must demonstrate the benefits of its use and take into account the potential risks to health and the environment, which is a problem with this technology of irradiating food.
in fact, if we start from the civil use of nuclear energy, there seems to be no other use than to substitute the normal rules of hygiene and safety which must be those of the foodstuffs processed.
thus, the big goal of this technology seems to lie elsewhere - to accelerate the liberalization of international trade and to strengthen the centralization/concentration of the production and mass distribution of food in the world, with consequences on the offshoring of agri-food production and the decline of small local farmers, which puts sustainable development in question.
- the next item is the report (a5-0435/2002) by mrs eija-riitta anneli korhola, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee, for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on public access to environmental information and repealing council directive 90/313/eec (pe-cons 3667/2002 - c5-0512/2002 - 2000/0169 (cod)).
- (pt) many complaints from citizens about the implementation of environmental policies in the member states relate to the lack of transparency of the institutions in informing the public and the lack of consideration of citizens' opinions on projects that have an impact on the environment.
it is therefore essential that, in line with the aarhus convention, the commission legislate on public access to environmental information, public participation in certain projects and programmes and public access to justice.
- (pt) sustainable development depends on our ability to 'green' the economy - so that buying green is a right and not a luxury and selling green is a competitive advantage.
we will only achieve this if, through a life cycle analysis of products, we quantify their environmental characteristics (from design to disposal) and thus integrate these environmental costs into the final price of the product.
the directives on electrical and electronic equipment adopted today are a very significant step forward in this respect, since they provide for a reduction in the use of certain hazardous substances, such as lead, mercury and cadmium, in electrical and electronic equipment and promote the collection, reuse, recycling and recovery of electrical and electronic waste by making the producer responsible for the financing of these systems.
- (pt) this new directive obliges the member states to guarantee the right of access to environmental information held by public authorities, and this in a way which follows from a conciliation agreement between the council and parliament, which seems acceptable to me.
as this conciliation agreement strengthens the right of citizens to obtain information from national, regional or local authorities, in particular in the event of pollution of watercourses, the construction of new projects or the destruction of natural habitats of protected species of animals or plants, while improving transparency in areas of common interest, i could only vote in favour of this report.
- (pt) i naturally voted in favour of this important report, which aims to establish common criteria for access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters, since i believe that access to information - which must also be of high quality - must be regarded as a normal prerogative of citizens.
the establishment of rules for such access will effectively contribute to citizen control in an area which concerns us all, a genuine citizen control in the defence of environmental heritage.
the trend towards free access to environmental information provided by the authorities, combined with the promotion of the use of information technologies - in particular the internet - will ensure that this access to information is widespread and free, taking into account, of course, the limitations imposed by national defence, legal proceedings, industrial rights and/or intellectual property.
finally, i welcome the establishment of practical arrangements to ensure the effective use of environmental information and the granting of greater powers to the member states in this context, which will result in increased responsibility for the latter and in the application of the principle of subsidiarity.
while the tragedy makes it clear that the ecological disaster is caused by the profits that certain shipowners and oil companies are trying to make in any way, including at the expense of maritime safety and working conditions, in particular through flags of convenience, the truth is that governments have facilitated this exploitation through increasingly neo-liberal practices, including the delay in the implementation of directives decided upon after the erika disaster.
the defence of the marine environment and the protection of europe's coasts are now major challenges for us all.
as for the lack of speed, i am counting on the energy of commissioner vitorino.
this is the major problem today, caused by the successive decisions of the commission and the council, particularly at the lisbon and barcelona summits, which have accelerated liberalization and deregulation in many sectors, notably telecommunications, postal services, energy and transport.