the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled an opinion on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs.
there are many ways to protect the environment.
we either try to prohibit or reduce environmentally harmful activities by means of directives and regulations, or we try to encourage individuals, companies and public authorities to take voluntary action to reduce environmental disturbances by means of directives and regulations.
i would like to say to mr zappala that the time is simply past when we could look at economic criteria alone, and that the ec treaty actually now obliges us to take social and environmental considerations into account alongside economic considerations.
the two proposals for directives on public procurement must therefore enable local and regional authorities and public authorities to procure goods and services in such a way as to minimise the impact on the environment.
in the two opinions which i have drawn up for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs, we have clearly included the possibility of taking environmental considerations into account in public procurement.
these opinions were adopted in their entirety without any amendments, which is a very strong and clear sign from the committee on the environment.
i am also pleased to note that the majority of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment have been adopted by the committee responsible.
in particular, the proposal for a directive on public procurement of goods, services and works, in which article 53 must be amended to make it much easier to take account of the environment in public procurement, while the second of the two directives, namely the proposal for a directive on public procurement in the fields of water, energy and transport, does not make the same amendment to article 54, which is identical to article 53 of the first directive.
if the wording 'the most economically advantageous tender for the contracting authority' is retained, this means that the contracting authority does not have to take environmental considerations or consider the public interest or the life cycle in a broader perspective.
these criteria are included in the sixth environmental programme.
they are part of the integrated product policy, and the rules are also intended to promote sustainable development in accordance with the treaty of amsterdam, to give just a few examples.
the advocate general has apparently stated that the view of the committee on the environment and myself is the correct one and not the one the commission is advocating.
i am also very pleased with the amendments made by the committee on employment and social affairs, because sustainable development means taking account of economic, social and environmental criteria.
clear rules must also apply to environmental and social considerations.
where and when environmental and social factors are to be taken into account, this should be done when establishing the criteria for the procurement.
it is good to know that we are finally at the stage where we can take a position on the sixth environmental action programme.
at the same time, we may also feel some frustration at the unfair distribution of power that we sometimes see between the institutions and we want to demonstrate this in some way, particularly in the case of the sixth environmental action programme.
let us separate policy from process, let us do what we are mandated to do, let us do it well and take the institutional and constitutional battle elsewhere, not in the context of the sixth environmental action programme.
look at the sixth environmental action programme!
we shall use it as a guiding light for the whole of the union's policy, for environmental policy but also in other areas, as a foundation for the whole of the sustainable development strategy which we shall be taking to johannesburg in september this year.
it says that the sharp decline in the amount of climate-changing gases is due precisely to the carbon tax.
it is further evidence that we must continue the fight with the commission to ensure that the council is convinced that it is now time to have a common environmental taxation, not least in the area of carbon dioxide.
in dealing with environmental issues and with the various measures, programmes, legislation, conventions, etc., one is often surprised and impatient at the slowness and difficulty of formulating and implementing environmental and health protection objectives.
this is also the case with the sixth environmental action programme.
of course, an environmental action programme must set environmental objectives if there is to be any point in having a programme at all.
the rapporteur, mr myller, and the committee on the environment have really tried to improve the sixth environmental action programme.
the overall objective of the programme is to break the link between environmental stress and economic growth.
another overarching principle is to provide the basis and priority for sustainable development and to apply the precautionary principle and substitution.
has a negative impact on the environment, and determine the year in which it must be abolished.
as rapporteur for the white paper, i can assure you that these amendments are good and that they strengthen the sixth environmental programme.
i would therefore strongly reject the liberal proposal and call on everyone to vote for the environment committee's proposal and for the compromise amendments which have been tabled.
we think it would be irresponsible not to take a decision on the sixth environmental action programme.
during the period of this environmental programme, the european union will be enlarged by a large number of new countries.
it also risks causing some problems in environmental work.
environmental work risks losing momentum and it may be more difficult to push through new environmental laws.
at this stage, it would not be wise to go without an environmental action programme.
it is probably good to have a programme with timetables and with concrete objectives to adhere to when enlargement takes place, so as not to lose pace in environmental work.
i find that incomprehensible, because it is an amendment which is at the very heart of integrating environmental considerations into other policies, something which the european investment bank has not been able to do.
the requirement to take account of the environment should be taken for granted.
i would like the white paper to be based on the same principle, so that we can follow a line for each product and see it in its context: raw materials, final or renewable, energy use, what energy is used, chemicals, product flow schemes, logistics, etc.
the communication explains that the community cannot afford to lose its fundamental store of experience if it does not want to jeopardize safety and the environment, as well as the competitiveness of maritime transport and related sectors.
all the proposals are based on the principle that, as long as the maritime career remains socially and financially unattractive compared to work on shore, it will not be able to attract quality seafarers and therefore ensure efficient operations, safe navigation and good ship maintenance, as well as achieving the reduction - which the maritime community needs - in the number of accidents and in marine pollution itself.
- (sv) mr president, tackling energy problems effectively is one of the most important prerequisites for creating a sustainable society.
the issue we are discussing now concerns the efficient use of energy.
the rapporteur rightly underlined in his report a number of measures which should be taken to increase the efficient use of energy.
the ways in which we solve energy problems will of course have consequences for our daily lives and our well-being, but also for the wider environment in which we will live in the future.
it has mainly concerned shortcomings in environmental considerations, openness and transparency.
the environment is the issue that most interests the independent organisations.
i believe that the eib has become more aware of environmental issues and that its support for environmental projects has increased substantially.
another key factor is the eib's ability to make accurate assessments of environmental issues.
at present, the eib has only one person responsible for coordinating environmental issues, while the project teams are composed of engineers and economists who have received additional environmental training.
more trained environmental experts should be employed or contracted to carry out reliable audits of the environmental impact assessments.
they do not change the content of the report but highlight environmental issues and issues of openness and transparency.
this includes communication in the traditional sense, such as roads, interconnections and the possibility of energy-efficient transport systems for goods and people, but also in the sense of telecommunications, it, electronic commerce, support for new technologies, increased knowledge and training.
competitiveness and sustainability should be the guiding principles.
the eib has been criticised for its neglect of environmental issues and also for its lack of openness and transparency.
the report could have been stronger on environmental issues.
the verts/ale group has tabled six amendments which deal specifically with environmental and transparency aspects.
if we are to express our support for an increase in the eib's capital, one condition should be that the projects lead to sustainable development.
firstly, the eib has been criticised for supporting a number of projects that have increased environmental problems and for shortcomings in environmental impact assessments.
secondly, the eib has been criticised for showing a lack of openness and willingness to engage in dialogue, for example with environmental movements in different countries.
a comparison, for example, of how the world bank does environmental impact assessments and how they are published, shows that the world bank is actually much better than the european investment bank in that respect.
olle schmidt raises some demands for action in his report, which i agree with, such as the need for more resources, for example more staff working on environmental issues and greater transparency, but it is necessary to go further.
i believe, in particular, that it is a reasonable requirement that environmental impact assessments, if they are carried out, should always be published before decisions are taken.
eu requirements for environmental impact assessments must also be met when loans are granted for projects outside the european union, and they must be translated into the national languages of the countries receiving the loans.
the european investment bank should also follow the aarhus convention, which implies a commitment to high transparency towards the environmental movement.
the gothenburg summit mandated the eib to support sustainable development and to invest in climate issues.
this should have far-reaching implications for the type of projects that can be supported in the transport and energy sectors.
i cannot help but wonder whether it is the committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs which always meets on tuesday nights during the strasbourg partsession, or whether we are considered to be some sort of 'suspect fundamentalist sect' which is always placed at the bottom of the agenda.
that would be rather strange, given that we are still responsible for one of the most important issues in this parliament, namely the environment.
i would ask both the president and the commissioner to look into whether it would be possible to change this, that is to say, whether it would be possible to at least sometimes raise the status of environmental issues by dealing with them during the day and not always after dark.
we had the opportunity to discuss climate change with both the congress and the house of representatives.
i have the feeling that there is not only a physical ocean between the continents but also a mental ocean, given the way the united states views the climate issue and believes it should be dealt with.
true, the climate issue has now been recognized as a problem in the united states, because its own scientists have found that it is a problem.
the united states sees a global environmental threat as a domestic problem that concerns only americans, whereas the european approach is to deal with the issue jointly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for her active role and also the rapporteur for the committee on the environment, moreira da silva, who has kept us together and ensured that we have a common view and position beyond the borders of europe.
this cohesion will also be put to the test when we deal with the european climate change programme and emissions trading a little later in the spring.
we live in a world of increasing interdependence, between countries and between people, in a world of widening gaps, in a world of increasing risk of tensions, large-scale migration, environmental degradation and increased crime.
actions to protect the climate, combat deforestation, develop vaccines and medicines against infectious diseases, etc.
i am therefore not opposed to liberalisation as such, but it must be balanced by a strong employment strategy, quality of working life, the fight against poverty and, above all, work for sustainable development.
in his report, mr bullmann has managed to strike a balance between liberalisation on the one hand and sustainable development, employment strategy and quality of working life on the other.
the first is that the achievement of the lisbon objectives requires an internal energy market characterised by liberalisation, bankruptcy and transparency.
i promise that we in the european parliament will follow this legal process in turkey with all our strength, energy and perseverance.
the environmental situation in the south caucasus is alarming.
the nuclear power plant at medzamor must be closed as agreed by 2004. to make this possible, of course, alternative energy sources are needed, something the eu could contribute to in the light of its experience.
the eu has an important role to play in strengthening democratic forces, strengthening civil society and combating environmental problems.
at the same time, we who are dependent on transport, both of people and of goods, must have the right to communicate without destroying public health with air pollution and noise.
these may include environmental issues, trade, freedom of movement between countries, human rights, and conflict resolution.
social issues, gender equality, sustainable development and increased employment are important issues.
but the most serious thing is that it does not recognise the need for a balance between environmental, economic and social indicators, nor the fact that a strategy for sustainable development was defined at the gothenburg european council, adding an environmental dimension to the already existing lisbon process.
i regret that the committee on the environment has not delivered an opinion on this report and that it is therefore planned to report on the views it will express at the barcelona summit in the form of a separate resolution.
this is all the more regrettable when one considers the worryingly meagre statements made by the spanish presidency on the environmental dimension, particularly in the context of the annual evaluation of the implementation of the policies of sustainable development and social cohesion.
even the head of the european environment agency, the eea, mr domingo jiménez-beltran, believes that the commission's report for the barcelona summit does not include an environmental study, and that interesting facts and analyses on the state of the environment in the union will therefore not be available to decision-makers.
in this context, i believe that the community's structural funds should instead be used to support alternative projects, for example sustainable planning of the use of water resources in large cities, the modernisation of irrigation methods, the integrated treatment of ground and surface water, etc.
in this context, i believe that the community's structural funds should instead be used to support alternative projects, for example sustainable planning of the use of water resources in large cities, the modernisation of irrigation methods, the integrated treatment of ground and surface water, etc.
we have every reason to believe that we can benefit from creating a good working environment with the commission.
today we are exposed to stress and a host of environmental toxins and chemicals that make a varied and healthy diet not always sufficient to keep us healthy and well.
the amendment, however, gives a transitional period of four years to member states which currently allow the use of food waste in extremely tightly controlled forms.
towards the end of the case, a number of details concerning sludge and waste water have emerged.
amendments nos 2, 4 and 14 should in fact fall in favour of amendment no 21, which aims at the safe handling of these materials in order to avoid serious environmental consequences.
amendments nos 7 and 8 concern the management of food waste.
in that case, i recommend voting in favour of amendments nos 22 and 23, which require that food waste from international traffic, with all its risks, be handled in accordance with the strictest requirements of the regulation, category 1. however, category 3 food waste must be handled in existing structures and systems for collection, transport and disposal in accordance with the eu waste directive.
on the contrary, article 6 (2) (g) states that national legislation in this area will apply pending new eu environmental legislation.
if we exclude household waste, i.e.
from private kitchens, from the definition of food waste, we are doing ourselves a disservice.
we know that food waste is a very serious route of transmission for both swine fever and foot-and-mouth disease.
personally, i find it rather difficult to ban household waste as feed.
i understand the council's position that it wants to ban food waste in animal feed.
it is difficult to guarantee safe and risk-free management of food waste.
how can we know what a mixed waste actually consists of?
we have now tabled compromise number 22, which makes an exception for category 3 food waste, and we table amendment no 25, which allows certain member states to dispose of food waste for a transitional period of up to four years.
i ask my colleagues to vote on amendment no 25, which opens up possibilities for solving the particular problems of both germany and the united kingdom with household waste and used household oil.
we must also make substantial environmental improvements, and we must, as mr markov pointed out, strengthen purchasing power, create demand so that companies are encouraged to invest again, so that we can focus on quality and on actions that help us to meet the ambitious lisbon objectives.
i am therefore of the opinion that the permanent solution for these problems requires enhanced approximation of rates to a level at which the above effects no longer occur or are brought back to a sustainable level.
the second was whether the sustainable development strategy would be given sufficient prominence in the document.
as regards the proposals on sustainable development, however, i must say that they are thin.
the ecological aspects will clearly disappear in the future.
another aspect of sustainable development is the relationship between our rich countries and the developing countries.
i also hope that the issues of sustainable development and ecological aspects will be more clearly integrated into the process at the forthcoming spring meetings.
we believe that a common legal basis should be created to combat environmental crime and we welcome the framework decision in this area.
however, we have doubts about the need to adopt a directive in this area, as there is no legal basis for member states to be required to criminalise breaches of environmental legislation under the first pillar.
the waste problem is one of the major environmental problems we have to tackle and we like the idea of finding a comprehensive solution whose objective is to reduce the total amount of waste, increase recycling and at the same time reduce the emission of hazardous substances in the waste management.
i do not think it is acceptable that most environmental issues are dealt with this late at night.
environmental policy and legislation could really use some prime time in this parliament.
it is a great responsibility to make decisions on health and the environment that will apply for a long time to come.
the scientific evidence for octs and odes is now so worrying in terms of health and the environment that the agency has recommended that member states make a political decision, i.e.
in the light of the new knowledge we have gained, we cannot continue to gamble with the environment and health.
in addition, we already have the arguments and we know that these substances which are dangerous are accumulating in the human body, that they are increasingly present in our environment.
brominated flame retardants pose a serious threat to human health and the environment.
this might seem to be taken from a debate paper written by fundamentalist environmental organizations, but it is not.
wto membership will have demands on piracy, environmental issues, trade unions, etc., and we may be able to help.
the business climate as a whole is crucial to the economic success of europe and the member states.
- (sv) i voted against the fatuzzo report on guaranteeing safe and sustainable pensions.
this requires a balanced approach to resolve conflicts and create a climate of coexistence, not a climate of isolation or exclusion for any party.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the committee of the regions is also calling for the commission to be given the right to adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
as members of the swedish liberal party, we see european integration as a means of finding solutions to crossborder problems, for example, in the environment, trade, crossborder movement, human rights and conflict resolution.
sea depletion is one of the most serious and obvious problems facing the ecosystem today.
this is in contradiction with the need to 'achieve a sustainable balance between resources and their exploitation', which, as the report very rightly states, is the first objective of these multiannual guidance programmes.
i think we'll benefit greatly from our collaborative climate this year.
we also agree on a third area, namely the need to focus more on sustainable development in economic, social and environmental terms, which will require a range of action by the union.
it is also important to invest in improving the ecological infrastructure, which is good for the future, and in training which has a high employment impact.
we also welcome the intention to make tourism a sustainable long-term activity through a tourism agenda 21. we do not think, however, that the report adequately respects the principle of subsidiarity.
the cost is enormous, the waste of resources for us members of parliament is also enormous and there are always problems with getting here - cancelled and delayed flights, etc.
finally, i would like to say that i am also very pleased that we have reached sensible and sustainable compromises on hunting.
when we go hunting in the morning in september, it is often freezing, and the climate at this time of year is equivalent to the temperature of a refrigerator.
in my hometown, from an environmental point of view, there is no better refrigerator for the hunter than nature's own cold room.
i would first of all like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and others in the informal food safety group of the committee on the environment for the good cooperation.
i therefore appeal to the house to support my two reports as adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment.
i would like to begin by thanking the president and his colleagues for bringing the committee on the environment into the open for once.
this is the first time, as far as i can recall, that the committee on the environment has had a debate at what can be described as a somewhat normal time.
the winds of change are also reflected in the excellent reports by mr papayannakis and mr lannoye, on the 10 years after rio and on sustainable development, respectively.
the commission, in particular, as in the case of last year's debate on sustainable development, has great difficulty in finding a dialogue with parliament.
i do not know what frustration is behind the inability to have a proper communication, a discussion with parliament, on sustainable development.
ten years after rio, and five years after we made a promise to all the un countries to have sustainability policies, we can see what has happened.
we are allowing food waste, the overproduction of food from the rich world, while 800 million people are starving, just as lannoye said.
despite the rows of meetings and conferences, it can be argued that today we are far from the goal of sustainable development.
the other day the oecd, which is not an environmental organization, said the following: all major global ecological indicators are negative.
what are the reasons why there is still a long way to go to achieve a sensible balance between economic growth, social development and environmental protection?
firstly, there is strong opposition to implementing all the measures that the government has said it would take at a series of conferences, such as eliminating environmentally harmful subsidies in the economy, internalizing environmental costs in prices, establishing clear environmental criteria for our export credit boards so that we do not export unsustainable systems to developing countries, and encouraging activities that are environmentally friendly rather than the other way around.
so, alongside short-term measures, we must also look at the big picture and ensure that we develop a better systems thinking in our societies, and not least help the poor countries, the developing countries, to build up research skills so that they can develop on their own strategies which are both more profitable economically and more environmentally sustainable.
it is positive that the environmental summit is actually taking place and that the two rapporteurs have done a very good job in expressing the concerns, hopes, proposals and demands of the european parliament in the run-up to the summit.
the eu's sustainable development strategy and the world summit communiqué are also very late, given that the subject is about our future and concerns us all.
it also shows a lack of respect for this important issue of sustainable development.
the eu must also demonstrate that it has a credible strategy for sustainable development so that the world summit can produce the results needed to reverse the present growing environmental crisis.
i believe that the eu countries have a particular moral and financial responsibility to show a sustainable path.
voluntary commitments can help, but a world environmental organization within the un is needed to ensure that human rights and environmental rules are followed.
international conventions on the environment and human rights must also take precedence over the rules of the wto, and not, as is the case today, the reverse.
at least having the debate on the financing of development behind us with some real result makes it more probable that johannesburg will be able to focus on sustainable development.
the debate is not concerned with objectives, as there seems to be a consensus that poverty eradication and sustainable consumption and production are the overriding goals of the summit, which – as a general feature – is further guided by the commitment to achieve the millennium development objectives.
the union is in the process of identifying a series of key priorities for common action derived from our sustainable development strategy.
concerning energy – the commission will propose an initiative to improve the provision of adequate, affordable and sustainable energy services.
the core of the initiative will be the provision of technical assistance to developing countries to put in place appropriate energy policies through the development of partnerships.
concerning trade – making globalisation work for sustainable development requires timely progress on the work launched in the doha development agenda, and concrete trade-related initiatives going beyond it.
concerning fisheries – the union intends to contribute effectively to maintaining biodiversity, while securing the long-term viability of the fishing industry.
we will fight illicit, unreported and unregulated fishing, and support sustainable fishery policies in developing countries in the context of poverty reduction strategies.
concerning governance – the union will contribute to the strengthening of global governance structures and institutions in the economic, social and environmental fields as well as their respective linkages, so as to ensure policy coherence, integration and increased effectiveness.
all these initiatives will be implemented in the framework of the national and regional poverty reduction strategies of our partner countries which form the basis for sustainable development.
in the implementation of these initiatives, the union will pay special attention to africa and african countries’ own efforts to achieve sustainable development.
the european parliament has always been an advocate of sustainable development and its integration in all union policies.
i am very pleased and satisfied that we now have a directive on public access to environmental information which is fully in line with the aarhus convention.
the new article 7, which sets out the quality of environmental information, is one of the most important amendments.
however, i am not satisfied with the environment committee's decision on the cost of what the authority is allowed to charge.
tomorrow my group, and i hope the whole of the european parliament, will vote in favour of the conciliation committee's motion for a resolution on the sixth environmental action programme.
the committee on the environment, with riitta myller as rapporteur, has done a great deal of work and has also been successful in concretising and improving the basic proposal from the commission.
it is clear that my group would have liked to see a perhaps more comprehensive, targeted and concrete environmental action programme for the next ten years, a real breakthrough for environmental policy and for ecologically sustainable development.
we must put our hopes in the commissioner for the environment, margot wallström, and the thematic strategies which are now to be adopted by codecision.
the programme shall encourage the various actors in society to address environmental problems in an active and responsible manner.
i would like to refer to the amendments concerning the strategic environmental assessment of the network.
in this respect, despite what mrs fleming has said, the commission cannot accept the part of amendment no 20 and amendments nos 40, 41, 42 and 43 which place the responsibility for strategic environmental assessments on the commission, when european legislation, the directive adopted in 2001, states that the task of implementing it falls to the member states.
this confirms that there is a consensus that corporate social responsibility is a concept whereby businesses incorporate their social and environmental concerns on a voluntary basis.
i would like to reiterate that, as is clear from your text, transparency and the ability to measure and compare the social and environmental performance of companies are absolutely essential and it must be said that in some countries companies are already required to provide some form of information on their social and environmental impact.
we swedish members of the moderater party voted against the introduction of an eu tax on the environment and energy in the first and second reading of parliament's sixth environmental action programme.
we agree with some of the arguments put forward, such as the idea that the common agricultural policy should promote the multifunctionality of agriculture, that environmental criteria should be integrated into all forms of agricultural aid, that such aid should be used to promote small family farms, the refusal to return to national agricultural policies, the dissociation between aid and production, and the promotion of more extensive agriculture.
but it is equally clear that this reform is urgently needed: it must remove the negative effects it may have on developing countries, gradually increase market adaptation and ensure that aid is compatible with sustainable development.
on this point we fully agree with the rapporteur, mr roth-behrendt, and with the decision taken by the committee on the environment.
as swedes, members of the liberal group, we see european integration as a means of solving crossborder problems in areas such as the environment, trade, free movement, human rights and conflict management.
not to be retrospective or to put the commission or the council on the spot, but before the gothenburg summit last year, we said from the european parliament: make sure that external relations are included when we draw up a sustainability strategy, make sure that johannesburg becomes a natural part of when we adopt our own sustainability strategy don't wait.
we know that they are part of sustainable development.
i understand that the poor countries are looking for more aid, more subsidies and better trade rules, but i think it is also very important to realise that more money alone will not lead to sustainable development.
we must eliminate subsidies that are harmful to the environment, ensure that market prices accurately reflect full costs and introduce standards and norms that force greater efficiency in energy and material management.
if i had to pick one, it would be the energy issue.
we know that several billion people today lack access to modern energy.
however, if they gain access to energy on conventional terms, this will lead to serious damage to the environment and the climate.
together we can solve common problems: environmental degradation, crime, growth, security and the safeguarding of democracy and humanist values.
regarding amendment no 2, the commission feels that this amendment is unnecessary since account is already consistently taken of scientific reports on environmental effects, to the extent that these effects are scientifically documented and quantified.
if alcohol production by german farmers under monopoly rules, including federal payments, is necessary to maintain valuable eco-systems or to cover the extra costs of environment-friendly production methods, current state aid rules offer substantial scope to grant aids for those purposes or rural development aid schemes could be used.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
- the following two reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0218/2002 by mr mayol i raynal, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the possibility of applying a reduced rate of excise duty on certain mineral oils containing biofuels and on biofuels (com (2001) 547 - c5-0030/2002 - 2001/0266 (cns)); - a5-0244/2002 by mrs ayuso gonzález, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the promotion of the use of biofuels in transport (com (2001) 547 - c5-0684/2001 - 2001/0265 (cod))
madam president, i would like to thank you.
as the european union is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, i believe it is extremely important to provide good conditions for the development of renewable energy, especially biofuels.
however, reducing emissions is not the only reason why it is important to invest in development work to develop alternative fuels.
the question of the long-term security of energy supply for the european union is also becoming increasingly important.
since taxes represent a very large part of the selling price of energy products, various types of tax incentives are effective instruments of control.
they include requirements for time limits and monitoring, as well as requirements for the evaluation of overall energy efficiency and environmental impact assessment and study.
using biofuels can be very good for the environment, not least for greenhouse gas emissions.
using heavily subsidised, highly processed agricultural products to produce biofuels can in many cases be unwise from an environmental point of view.
there are much more interesting technologies, such as the production of ethanol from forest raw materials, in terms of the overall environmental impact.
biofuels must therefore be assessed in the context of their overall environmental impact if a long-term sustainable system is to be achieved.
taxation must also be adapted to this long-term environmental impact.
nuclear power is a highly debated and controversial method of energy production.
we will also put forward a number of demands relating to the environmental aspect, the prevention of new disasters involving animal diseases, etc.
it is important to take account of the increase in weight of these machines from an ergonomie point of view, but also their emissions, which mainly affect the users, should be taken into account.
the commission is also proposing to extend the deadline for the adoption of the directive to include the possibility of a new directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in fact a policy of the member states.
for our group, it's about biodiversity, the environment, health and food safety.
in particular, there is uncertainty regarding the impact on biodiversity and possible effects on allergy sufferers.
we know that there is a strong pressure on this issue from industry and from some national governments to vote against the line adopted in the committee on the environment.
i would appeal to members to take their responsibility for the environment and consumers and to support the line of the environment committee on this issue and not give in to either industry or 10 downing street.
two areas are important to consider in this context, namely human health and the threat to the environment.
if we take the environmental aspect seriously, as i do, unlike trakatellis, then all food must be labelled, even where gmos cannot be detected, and even where they have only been used as an aid to production.
i therefore fully support the proposals of the committee on the environment.
i do not think that as a parish priest i need waste words of courtesy on a danish prime minister, but i can speak plainly.
i have seen the spanish presidency not prioritise sustainable development.
i hope you do not lean too much on the united states when it comes to environmental issues, for example.
something's happened to the climate.
as the world looks today, the eu must now take the lead in bringing about a sound environmental policy.
i am convinced that we must come together to tackle the world's environmental problems in the future.
the next major project for the european union should be to create a common environmental policy that is tough and directly binding on countries and individuals.
this would raise standards without anyone lowering them, and would allow the eu to play a leading role in improving the global environment.
i've been doing a lot of work on environmental issues.
i believe that cooperation with the asian countries is very important in the global environment.
at this meeting in manila we tried to concentrate on three areas: first, terrorism; second, environmental issues; third, human rights.
i have already commented on the environment, which is a global issue.
global warming is the most important issue.
in the environmental context, we also talked about the importance of involving civil society.
the protocol is an important example of how global trade rules can take environmental and consumer protection as a starting point.
that is why i and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection are proposing tougher rules on a number of points.
i therefore hope that as many of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and those tabled by the gue/ngl group, the greens/efa group and the pse group will be adopted jointly.
i also thank my colleagues on the committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs.
we can't let this go to waste.
will we gain credibility by exporting what we have failed to do, for example, for reasons of environmental safety, biodiversity or consumer protection?
- (sv) in view of the potential risk of gmos to the environment in general and to biological diversity in particular, the swedish christian democrats have chosen to support a restrictive policy.
i am pleased to read in the ferms report that it calls for a fair and sustainable agricultural policy and that it praises the commission's proposal.
i would therefore urge the commission to stick to the lisbon decisions, which emphasise both economic growth and social integration, which emphasise quality of work as much as quantity, and which make full employment a top priority with a sustainability perspective.
this is where the influence on working life, the working environment and lifelong learning in the workplace lie.
after all, there is no way to measure the benefits of ensuring that more people have access to water, proper sanitation, food, and an environment with fewer chemicals.
in this parliament, we have been actively working for sustainable development since before the gothenburg summit.
i would also like to say a few words about the other commitments the eu has made, for example in kyoto, and about the state of play of our own climate programme, which the commission released just over a year ago, a two-year programme which constitutes half of the strategy for combating climate change in europe.
the other half, on emissions trading, we shall return to in october through moreira da silva.
as regards our objectives and the 8% reduction we want to achieve, the basic assumption must be that climate policy must be the basis for energy policy.
this will guide the design of our energy policy in the future.
we must ensure that this is reflected in our research programmes and in the directives that the commission has promised, such as the directive on public procurement in the energy sector.
given the problems we face on this small planet, such as the continuing rapid spread of poverty, the spread of infectious diseases, the many environmental problems and, not least, the extremely rapid technological development in many areas, some form of framework and regulatory framework is required if it is to work well.
it is about energy production, which is now expanding very rapidly, it is about transport, it is about chemicals, waste management, agriculture and water.
every year, countries like china, india, mexico, indonesia, brazil, invest in the order of a hundred billion dollars or more in new energy production.
most of this is carbon technology.
here we have a vested interest in helping with soft loans, grants and technical cooperation to really ensure that the necessary energy development is also done in an environmentally friendly and efficient way.
i welcome the initiative taken by the commission on sustainable energy.
as regards the initiatives taken by the commission in the water and energy sectors, we never had the opportunity to comment, which is a bit frustrating given the unquestionable commitment and interest in these areas.
for us swedish moderates, the most important environmental issue is to avoid development that can cause climate change on our planet.
it is obvious to us that the use of coal for energy production should be stopped.
environmental policy work needs to focus much more clearly on emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.
we voted against this report because we believe that efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and to achieve the objectives of the kyoto protocol are important.
points 16, 26, 34 and 35 recommend the coordination and harmonisation of environmental and energy taxation.
the commission will also be taking a decision on environmental taxes in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
a carbon tax may need to vary between member states, as it may conflict with other measures that member states need to take to achieve lower emissions targets.
in developing better vehicles from an environmental point of view, we are facing major and radical changes.
modern sensor technology, such as fuel sensors, makes engines much better from an environmental point of view, but at the same time engines are also becoming more sensitive to pollution.
these environmental improvements will not be possible unless they go hand in hand with improved fuel quality.
cleaner fuels allow us to take advantage of all the environmental benefits of new motor technology.
this directive is very urgent and represents an important step towards less air pollution and a better environment.
if these vehicles are to be covered by the directive in full, the environment will be the big winner.
the eu's auto-oil programme, together with this fuel directive, will go a long way towards reducing the negative environmental impact of vehicle traffic.
this shows that the eu has the power and the competence to tackle important environmental issues and that the use of modern environmental technologies is better than prohibition.
the rapporteur, mr hautala, has brought this matter to a clear improvement, and i hope that parliament will adopt the report from the committee on the environment.
in sensitive lakes, we are now meeting environmental requirements with restrictions on boating, such as boat bans in certain areas during bird nesting seasons.
it is good that environmental standards are set high also for recreational boat engines, as is the case with this directive.
however, we swedes, and my colleagues from finland, are concerned that this proposal for a directive opens up the possibility of higher environmental standards for recreational boats in inland waterways than in coastal waters.
with a specific environmental standard for inland waterway vessels we are missing the very basis of the proposal for a directive, the common market.
in addition, there is currently no possibility of achieving a higher environmental standard for recreational boating on lakes.
this proposal may look good on paper, but in reality the result will be bad, and it will be bad for the environment.
i am happy to raise the environmental standards for recreational boat engines in the future, but then realistic requirements must be set.
no such amendments have been tabled, so the only reasonable thing is that the commission may come back with new environmental requirements in a later revision of this directive.
boats are often anchored, but environmental policy must also be anchored.
if this is not the case, environmental policy will be in trouble, in the middle of a dead end, and the environment will suffer.
- (sv) the swedish christian democrats voted today in favour of the report to tighten the limits on gas and noise emissions imposed by the union on pleasure boats.
the levels set must be minimum provisions and leave individual member states free to define stricter rules for the protection of the environment.
we also reject the harmonised requirements for emissions from lake-going vessels because many pleasure boats, particularly in sweden and finland, are used for both sea and lake-going pleasure.
in countries where drinking water comes from lakes, emissions from boats are an even more acute problem.
finally, we do not think it would be appropriate to introduce new, stricter provisions on greenhouse gas emissions just three years after the directive has entered into force.
there is another aspect which has not been taken up by anyone, namely that sustainable development should also be integrated into the employment strategy as in the other two strategies.
new jobs must be created, the business environment must encourage the creation of new and more jobs.
in the case of emissions trading, it is largely a question of taking measures that are as effective as possible.
at the same time, there is a risk that this will be seen as a substitute for policies to reduce emissions, and this must not be the case.
the global emissions trading system under the kyoto protocol is a system with many risks.
we think it is reasonable to include all six greenhouse gases and we think that part of the allowances should be auctioned off as soon as practicable.
this is in full accordance with the principle that the polluter should reasonably pay for the pollution.
i have some views on the aspects that should be taken into account when discussing emissions trading schemes.
we will make sure that the climate pollution is reduced.
i agree with the rapporteur that the system should cover more gases than just carbon dioxide.
– mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms evans, and the committee on the environment, for the report on the council's common position.
as swedish liberals, we see european integration as an opportunity to find solutions to crossborder problems in the areas of environment, trade, crossborder mobility, human rights and conflict management.
the eu must create a sustainable fisheries that can survive in the long term.
the important thing now is that it is not just a matter of taking over on paper but also in practice, and not just in terms of the internal market but also in terms of the environment and the social rights of workers.
it's about a better environment.
(sv) the report deals with the problems of the working environment in the eu workplace and expresses concern that the situation is getting worse rather than better.
the existing work on the working environment is not working, mainly because employers do not comply with it and because trade unions are too weak, often setting minimum conditions under which the social partners are attempting to commit themselves to agreements providing very low protection.
it is about protecting human health and the environment.
i also think it is therefore reasonable and right that the committee on the environment, with the help of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, has changed the legal basis from article 133 to article 175, which gives the european parliament the right to vote and at the same time allows member states to have stricter rules.
this is clearly at odds with the general objectives of eu participation in the euratom-korean peninsula energy development organisation kedo, which are 'to contribute to reinforcing and maintaining the international nuclear non-proliferation regime and to help achieve appropriate cooperation with both north korea and south korea to ensure the safe and peaceful use of nuclear energy'.
the eu's agricultural policy, in the form of export and production subsidies, must therefore be phased out and replaced to some extent by subsidies for biodiversity and ecological measures.
in this context, it is regrettable that the eu budget contains a particularly large number of unused resources and that there is a complete waste of money in some cases.
it is unacceptable that some member states are not taking the issue seriously enough and instead of reducing emissions are moving in the opposite direction.
what demands must be made, and how do we move forward to solve the problem of climate change?
there will of course be a second reading, but it is difficult to see where climate issues fit into that context.
in conclusion, i would like to repeat the principle which i think this debate should be based on, and which actually caused a small discussion at the last meeting of the committee on the environment.
a few words on mid-term review: there is a clear need for reform of the agricultural policy for budgetary reasons, for equity reasons, for environmental reasons and for other reasons - i will not go into details here - as well as for reasons linked to the doha outcome: to contribute to a better functioning of world trade and to facilitate the development of the economies of the poorest countries.
greater investment in the environment and rural areas, can be implemented and that some money is taken from direct grants.
-sv) we welcome the resolution's desire to reform the common agricultural policy and the emphasis on the environment, food security, animal health and protection throughout this policy.
we would also like to make it clear in general terms that food production must not be placed on the same footing as industrial production and must therefore be protected by specific trade measures, particularly with a view to strengthening the environmental perspective.
they have not taken any responsibility for sustainable development and the conservation of fish stocks, which is the only way to save the fishing industry.
the major challenges ahead, environmental problems, crossborder crime, europe's role in the world and our responsibility for a fairer world order also require joint efforts, as does the work of reforming european institutions to make them more democratic and effective.
today, however, i would like to recall the sustainable development strategy adopted at the gothenburg summit and also the united nations environment action programme adopted in johannesburg.
the focus on ecologically sustainable development must now be reflected in all eu policies and in all plans and programmes to meet the need for a change of course in the eu, but also to meet the needs of environmental investment in the candidate countries.
the proportion of resources from the structural funds and the cap allocated to the environment must therefore be considerably increased.
the commission has already set aside some 10% of the structural funds until 2006 for environmental infrastructure, such as waste water treatment.
this is absolutely essential if we are to achieve sustainable development throughout the whole of the european union.
in the field of environmental policy, the big gains will be made by taking action in the countries that are now joining the union.
my questions also concern environmental policy.
in 2003-04, the strategic environmental impact assessment (sea) is being introduced in the member states.
we have reached this decision because we feel that, while it stresses the importance of sustainable development in fisheries, the inclusion of environmental issues in the reform of the common fisheries policy and the further need to clarify the impact of industrial fishing on the environment, the report also contains many messages and statements that we cannot support.
the long-term objective of the fishing industry must be sustainable development.
sustainable fishing is not the enemy of fishermen, it is their best friend.
we also have many reservations about the view expressed in the report that no impact analysis to date has been able to demonstrate that further capacity reduction will benefit the environment, especially as we currently know very little about how the different parts of ecosystems interact.
while it is true that the greater investment in the development of more and more research in the marine environment in the future will allow us to draw clearer conclusions, the precautionary principle dictates in any case that capacity reduction is a necessary if not sufficient measure.
to meet the environmental threat, we need not only restrictions on our existence but also new findings that can help us to deal with the environmental threat in a technical, mechanical and biological way.
a society that wants to develop welfare and justice and that wants more people to live in a healthy environment must ensure that there is economic growth.
we would like to see environmental considerations strengthened by the investment bank making the aarhus convention and its obligations part of its policy.
it concerns public access to environmental information.
we would also like to see an evaluation of the task given to us in gothenburg on the impact of climate change in a year's time.
i first came into contact with the eib a number of years ago because of complaints from independent organisations about the eib's lack of transparency and understanding of the need to act as a key player in eu policy work on sustainable environment.
i share that view in principle, but i would also like to warn that we are raising too many wishful thinking on the part of parliament which is causing us to lose sight of the eib's main mission, which is to promote regional development, support advanced technology, take account of the environment, concentrate on the candidate countries and the so-called partner countries.
the us message is, at least in our eyes, worse when it comes to countering the climate change that is taking place.
although we in the eu cannot take responsibility for all these environmental changes, we must nevertheless consider ourselves as one of the parties which have contributed more, together with the rest of the industrialized world, to creating the climate change that is now taking place.
our role in helping the third world countries to protect themselves against climate change must be made clearer.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled an opinion on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs.
we know that the environmental situation is facing a catastrophe in terms of fisheries and sustainability.
the committee on the environment also took up the fact that we rich europeans buy fishing rights from poorer countries for substantial sums of money but for very little money.
what sustainability plans do we have?
it is important to combine the environmental objective of gothenburg with the requirement of economic growth and social cohesion in order to achieve the three dimensions.
i am, like karas and bullmann, rather disappointed that the commission is once again managing to forget the decisions taken at the gothenburg summit, which meant that the environment should also be an aspect of the lisbon process.
although i think it is good that the rapporteur is calling on the commission and the council to include sustainable development in the rationalisation of policy coordination, it can be done much more clearly than the commission does.
in fact, apart from the lack of strengthening of the lisbon objectives with an environmental objective, there are still many issues that remain to be resolved.
this is part of the concept of 'sustainable development', but it does not seem that the commission has really accepted or thought through this yet.
the aim of next year's spring summit must be to strike a balance between the actions of all three parts of the lisbon agenda, in particular by developing the environmental dimension, and to continue to strengthen and concretise the concept of sustainable development within all three dimensions of the agenda.
in particular, we must ensure that environmental indicators are taken seriously, which will not really be discussed until a few days before the council takes a decision on them.
the whole work on sustainable development in this agenda is completely wrong and is going too slowly on the part of the commission.
we need an environmental process, and we also need a social process as an important part of the overall process developed at the lisbon summit.
i think that we must also talk about social and environmental issues.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0387/2002) by mrs jillian evans, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on council directive 86/609/eec on the protection of animals used for experimental and other scientific purposes (com (2001) 2259 final).
there are good reasons for doing so, however, since other methods of sterilizing spices are even more unsuitable from a health and environmental standpoint.
i do, however, see it as a failure for the protection of the environment and health in the eu that the commission and the council did not follow parliament's proposal to include decabde in the ban.
the scientific evidence is so worrying for health and the environment that the european chemicals agency recommended that member states make a political decision to use the precautionary principle.
in conclusion, i must say that the result is a failure for the eu's environmental and health policy.