in 2021 over 130 000 tonnes of plastic waste were shipped abroad for recycling from austria alone.
in february 2021, austria was forced to take back 100 tonnes of chemical-laden plastic waste from malaysia.
this scandal was not just an embarrassment to the austrian green environment minister.
this scandal also shows how problematic the export of waste can be.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of its citizens.
on the contrary, you will continue to face major challenges, whether it is the continuation of financial support for ukraine, the sustainable transformation of the economy, the european response to the inflation reduction act - that is to say, the competitiveness of europe - and much more, as colleagues have told you today.
the russian attack on ukraine has massively exacerbated the situation and demonstrated that direct european support is necessary for sustainable development.
and global gateway can and must make eu development policy more sustainable.
these programmes must at least ensure that people in their home countries have a sustainable perspective and future.
similarly, development cooperation programmes must also promote sustainable development goals, democracy, the rule of law and good governance, freedom of the press and media, and, above all, education.
war, inflation and an extremely volatile energy market are forcing us to accelerate the expansion of renewable energy.
it is now of the utmost importance to our citizens, our businesses and our businesses that the european union drastically reduces its dependence on energy suppliers from third countries and on fossil fuels.
this is important because the dramatic increase in energy bills is not only damaging to our citizens and our businesses, but above all to our european competitiveness.
and all this without taking even a small step towards our global goal of climate action.
the need for active climate action is not in any way called into question.
and technology neutrality is the only way to kill two birds with one stone: to protect the climate and to keep europe competitive.
i really believe that a car with a steyr engine, powered by electric fuels from denmark or biofuels from austria, will help the climate more than an electric car from china or america, powered by coal.
the eu accounts for 8% of global co2 emissions, of which the transport sector within the eu accounts for 15%.
that 15% of 8% is just 1.2% of global co2 emissions.
the ban on the combustion engine from 2035 will therefore reduce global co2 emissions by just 1.2%.
this is not how we're going to save the climate.
in the midst of the energy crisis, the eu wants to ban the combustion engine to promote electric cars.
but is it really climate-smart?
or should we call them carbon cars because that's the right name?
in addition, there is the expensive and carbon-intensive manufacture of batteries with many parts from china.
the climate alarmism that is going on is not helping the climate.
mr president, vice-president, colleagues, if we want to be climate neutral by 2050, we have to focus on transport.
we know that the transport sector is the only sector in the eu where emissions they have increased.
yes, indeed, we have to cut emissions from road transport, but we should do it in a technology neutral way.
technology diversity is needed where all technologies, including electrification, hybridisation, hydrogen, but also sustainable and renewable fuels, can play a role.
and we know also that for too long we have been focusing only on tailpipe emissions.
so i think this is a positive step here that the new regulation will now introduce a common eu methodology by 2025 for assessing the full lifecycle of co2 emissions of cars and vans placed on the eu market.
let us not forget that we are talking about the health of all of us and the health of the environment that wears us down.
i'm looking at a gallery full of young people, the ones who are fighting to fight climate change.
and i thank them for being here because this is an important moment this moment marks the first official agreement on a law from a fundamental package for the future of our climate and our environment, of our health.
this is the first opportunity we have to give a signal to the world about the environment.
we will not be discouraged, committed to reducing the environmental impact of new car emissions, while ensuring that no one is left behind because yes, we are socialists, and we do not want anyone to fall behind.
we will not stop working for the environment and for our health.
the necessary transformation of the automotive sector towards climate neutrality threatens to become unnecessarily inefficient and expensive.
but if we want to reduce carbon emissions for new cars and vans to ensure that the automotive sector contributes to the climate goals that we're all for, then we need to find a level playing field, and for me, this is not the moment.
the green deal, the farm-to-table strategy, the biodiversity strategy: these are all projects that are still hated by some ultraconservatives, neoliberals or climate sceptics in this century, and feared by others, but which are nonetheless priority and urgent european projects.
these are tasks which, in the light of the degradation of our environment and biodiversity, are vital for the future of our european citizens.
transport is one of the major emissions problems in the european union.
this law is an essential step in the right direction, a clarification for our citizens and for our industry towards a sustainable transport transition.
this company makes great products, pays its employees well, throws away profits, and also takes care of the environment.
where are the plans to make energy in europe cheap enough to produce competitively?
where are the initiatives that not only raise environmental standards but also ensure that there is genuine technology-neutral access?
are these measures intended to save energy and to make energy bills affordable?
no homeowner wants to add to their dependency or their energy bill.
the building sector is already covered by the new emissions trading system in terms of co2 price signals and co2 reductions, and also by the new energy efficiency directive.
it has already been mentioned: we have the current state of science that shows that climate change, biodiversity, environmental destruction is one of the biggest threats to our food system and therefore to agriculture, and that is to farmers.
we need a sustainable food system, and so it's urgent that we talk about transforming how we do that.
this is also possible without agricultural poisons, as is shown by the ecological, organic farming, and this is also the one that has problems, very often in south tyrol, with drift.
pesticides are partly responsible for the decline in biodiversity and thus also for the death of bees.
but when it comes to reducing conventional environmental toxins, many people are losing courage and are often left with a symbolic policy.
agriculture depends on the best sustainable alternatives for food security and biodiversity across europe.
this requires bold policy and a massive acceleration of research into truly ecological alternatives to pesticides.
both topics - supporting farmers and protecting bees and other pollinators - are, in my view, essential to the success of the european green deal and to a more successful and sustainable future for europe.
the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
farmers do not use pesticides because of juicing or pollination or because they want to harm biodiversity.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has been working for a year in this house, in the european parliament, to investigate the use of pegasus and similar surveillance and spying software.
the czech republic will be the first country to implement the eu-wide 'climate action' strategy, which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020. the summit is, of course, the rationale for the refusal of the hungarian minister of justice, varga, to speak and communicate with the committee: we don't want to help the performance of the hungarian and european left, which are financed by soros dollars.
i have to say, madam president, the car is a subject that moves many young people, especially those who are climate conscious.
but they have a particularly high greenhouse potential.
but this law must also serve to ensure that trade remains sustainable.
we are doing legislation to save the climate.
climate heating needs actions from decision makers of today.
there is not good or bad emissions; all the sectors have to look at how they can get rid of the emissions.
did we do any mistakes in the past in the climate policies?
we didn’t take care of the consumption emissions we caused in europe.
together with the ets, we will see that there will be a price on carbon.
a lot of new work, a lot of new well-being for europeans is promised when they can trust that there is a price on carbon.
with this vote, we are now laying the foundations for making flying in europe more climate-friendly - or, let us say, more climate-friendly.
but if we want the change we are starting here to extend beyond the borders of the european union, then we must finally stop hoping and actually create facts so that we can create climate neutrality for the whole world.
this planned expansion of emissions trading and carbon pricing to the construction and transport sectors will bring the next big wave of price increases for citizens and businesses.
the eu itself is driving up energy prices and our european companies are losing their competitiveness on the world market.
the co2 tax will not change that, and it will not help the climate.
the outcome of the negotiations on the fit for 55 files, which are to be voted on this week, will bring us one step closer to a climate-neutral europe by 2050. we can be satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations, even though i personally would have liked a more progressive outcome on one or other point.
in the reform of the emissions trading system, we have succeeded in involving more sectors and in gradually reducing the supply of free allowances.
we are creating the necessary incentives for companies to invest in climate-friendly technologies.
because experience has shown us that the abolition of such exemptions leads to more investment in innovation and research, and that the idea of saving and sustainability also leads to better and faster implementation in industry.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action in this area.
here, carbon farming offers an opportunity to make agriculture even more sustainable, while also opening up new income opportunities for farming and forestry.
the aim is to create a uniform framework for carbon farming in the eu so that the actual storage of co2 is rewarded and there is no greenwashing of co2 allowances in agriculture and forestry.
carbon capture and storage and carbon capture and utilisation - two industrial possibilities to filter co2 out of the air or from processing processes, to store it and either store it underground or recycle it, for example in the field of synthetic fuels, or to capture it in the form of building materials.
it is precisely this possibility that allows us to reduce manufacturing processes that were previously very carbon intensive to almost zero emissions and really make a direct profit.
the environmental conditions have changed.
we see it with the war in ukraine, how important it is that we really expand these steps of data exchange, etc., that we really work together on this in a sustainable way.
china has also grown its web of economic power woven around critical raw materials, food and energy.
– madam president, honourable members of parliament, the commission recalls that the final agreement reached by the co-legislators on the establishment of the carbon border adjustment mechanism has evolved significantly in terms of the human resources required for its implementation within the commission, compared to the legislative and financial statement which accompanied the original proposal, which was based on a decentralised model of implementation.
the margin in heading 3, natural resources and environment, may in principle accommodate it-related expenditure, subject to its limits.
madam president, dear colleagues, we have now agreed on the cornerstone of fit for 55 – like esther de lange said, the holy trinity of the ets, cbam and the social climate fund.
this is good for the climate, it’s good for people and it’s good for our jobs in industry.
one point only i wanted to make: many people say the social climate fund is so small, but it is big; it is more than eur 80 billion.
it’s not only the social climate fund, it’s an overall package.
(the sitting was suspended for a few moments)
the next item is the commission statement on energy storage (2023/2638(rsp)).
– mr president, i thank the honourable members for organising this timely and necessary debate on the role of energy storage in the electricity system.
we have a lot of topics on our agenda, but storage is the centrepiece for building a decarbonised, flexible and cost—effective energy system through electrification and energy system integration and is key for achieving our eu targets with regard to renewables and hydrogen production but the fact is that the role of storage is often overlooked.
we looked into the best ways in which we could build on the work started in 2016 with our guiding documents and provisions in the clean energy package.
today, i am delighted to present to you the results of this work and the latest set of commission proposals on energy storage.
the reform of the electricity market design strengthens flexibility services, demand response and energy storage in the electricity system with measures for member states and system operators.
for member states, they would be required to assess the flexibility needs in the national energy systems for a period of at least five years, to move away from system flexibilities gained from fossil fuels.
in parallel to the revision of the electricity market design, we addressed a commission recommendation on energy storage to the member states, because we know that a great part of the work also falls to the national level.
the recommendations offer proposals for member state actions towards a greater deployment of energy storage, to provide benefits to consumers and accelerate the market for flexibility solutions.
this will further support the development of demand response, including rules on aggregation, energy storage and demand containment, and address remaining regulatory barriers.
we know that storage is central to the success of our clean energy transition.
we aim to shape a conducive environment for storage and flexibility solutions to develop at the pace and scale we need, but need your support to get there.
and first of all, i want to thank the commissioner for presenting the plans for energy storage.
this is absolutely critical to our entire energy and industrial transformation.
energy security, security and storage are always linked.
it's short-term energy storage.
this means that renewable energy is the most important, and it's unstable.
so renewable energy and energy storage are absolutely linked.
what bothers us most about storing energy in the form of hydrogen, electricity, renewable electricity?
the european parliament already pointed out in its 2020 report that we urgently need a strategy for energy storage.
without sufficient storage, there will be no energy revolution.
i am all the more pleased that the commission has now made some concrete proposals with a working document and recommendations on energy storage.
this is a clear political signal to the energy industry, to the member states.
in vorarlberg there is a great innovative project which can become one of the largest reservoirs in central europe almost entirely without additional environmental intervention: the lünerseewerk ii.
the expansion of storage must finally be as urgent as the expansion of renewable energy.
otherwise we will not make the energy revolution as a whole.
so with many meals, we eat a bit, a bit, a my poison, which is deposited in our blood, in our blood plasma, as the german environment agency has now found in 2020 in blood plasma samples from 3 to 17 year olds, namely that in the 3 to 17 year olds, 100% of the blood plasma samples were found to be pfos and 86% of the samples were found to be pfoa, and this despite the fact that these substances were already banned in 2009 and 2019 respectively.
we hear there are increasing amounts of environmental toxins.
i would like to support the commission in not allowing itself to be taken in by an industry which has no regard for our health and cannot foresee this environmental damage in the long term.
the growing challenges of climate change and pollution from industrial, chemical, pharmaceutical and agricultural activities are truly worrying.
we need a european research strategy for real, effective, ecological and sustainable alternatives to the environmental toxins currently in use.
there has been a very strong desire from the beginning not to negotiate this sur at all, very unilateral information to say it kindly and no political will to do anything for europeans, for europeans, for our environment, for our health.
the risks to the environment and to health, but also to the soil, to our drinking water, have become intolerable.
almost 82 percent of respondents from denmark, germany, poland, spain, romania and france ask for it and are concerned about the environmental impact of pesticides, and 76 percent are concerned about their own health, the health of their grandchildren and their daughters, sons, friends, partners.
the pollution of surface waters, declining insect populations, increasing pesticide residues and, of course, the waste products that are not even being studied have become a major problem for humans, animals and our entire environment.
there are about 100,000 different environmental toxins, and now is the time to start with a really serious reduction.
we must finally protect the long-term consequences for health, for biodiversity and for our ecosystems and our natural resources.
but we also have a problem of protecting our food security, which is being threatened by restricting biodiversity.
the toolkit proposed by the european commission, the ipm toolkit, which can reduce pesticide use in an agro-ecological way, not only saves environmental toxins but also ultimately brings more money into the market.
we all know that everything we put out into nature eventually ends up on our plates and also in our bodies, and that's where environmental toxins have absolutely nothing to lose.
we must finally reduce our dependencies and create alternatives to environmental toxins like glyphosate and co. this requires a joint european effort to launch a research initiative, to develop ecological and effective alternatives to the pesticides used so far.
i am a farmer myself, and i want a stable, sustainable agriculture and a life.
the eu wants to reduce emissions from heavy commercial vehicles.
more imports, more traffic, more trucks on our roads, more emissions and of course and this has become a basic principle in the eu more cost to citizens.
a black day for the environment and health, for society and for the liberation of farmers from the agro-industry.
so you can see that there is still biodiversity right there, right there is still the possibility that pollinators are in the area, that bumblebees and bees are in the area, and we should do something in the cities.
if there is only light, light pollution, and the cities are lit all night, then the insects really don't know each other anymore.
but it is also important that we continue to ensure that environmental, social, labour rights and competitive advantages are still addressed and that they also deserve our attention.
cheap energy, low bureaucracy and tax credits have also attracted european businesses.
the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for a new programme for the promotion of the environment.
all transparency alone will not solve the problem in a sustainable way.