it's about how much we pay for not having security and energy supply.
well, we need the energy union, the digital union, civil protection, secure connectivity, the health union, the defence union.
i wish you, mr president, much strength, energy and success in maintaining the unity of the european union in all these areas.
energy issues, consolidation on many geopolitical issues, all of these are important.
the war in ukraine exposed vulnerabilities in our critical systems and triggered an unprecedented energy crisis inside the bloc.
we must futureproof our energy system.
i call on the swedish government, during this presidency of the council, to draw on sweden’s long-standing reputation as a climate leader and to bring forward measures that allow for the efficient production, storage and distribution of energy to citizens and businesses across europe, guided by the energy-efficiency-first principle.
in particular, i sincerely hope that during the swedish presidency, parliament and the council can work closely to secure an agreement on the energy performance of buildings directive, of which i am the lead negotiator on behalf of the epp group.
this file is particularly unique and addresses a fundamental pillar of achieving our climate goals: the built environment.
this sovereignty must obviously be found in such strategic sectors as energy, digital, food and health, beyond the defence i mentioned.
on top of the consequences of the war in ukraine are taxes and dictates for senseless and unnecessary climate goals.
we're sorry you didn't introduce them at the beginning of the year, we wouldn't have had them now, so let's all look at the top most profitable energy companies, with profits in the first nine months of over 200 billion euros.
we are discussing a very important topic and energy is also one of those that, because of the war, has marked the last year and will continue to do so.
we are also talking about the american measures to control inflation, and one of these measures that has been taken in the united states is very much related to the use of nuclear energy.
they have a plan on how to transform coal sites into nuclear sites, how to create an ecosystem, an environment, how to produce technologies in the existing nuclear energy field, how to subsidize the construction of power plants with fifteen dollars per megawatt, as well as subsidize and accelerate the construction of modular units and invest in fusion.
because i firmly believe that it will not help us to shape markets by talking a lot about renewables alone, unless we include nuclear energy in this mix of low-carbon sources.
and we know that electrification is the foundation for the transition to a low-carbon society.
no concrete measures to make progress on the path that is truly essential: general wage increases, price controls on essential goods and energy products, market regulation, the restoration of public control of strategic sectors, the development of national production, among others.
the first one is the urgent facilitation to our industry, in particular to our smes, to transform themselves into green and digital entities overall sustainable under the new competition circumstances.
the russia-ukraine war is not abating, the pressure of illegal migration is increasing, while europe is in the grip of an energy crisis, and most european economies are taking a step-by-step approach to recession.
the continued systematic missile attacks by russia on ukrainian civilians, civilian targets, energy infrastructure and other public services with the aim of causing even greater suffering to the ukrainian people are a crime that cannot go unpunished.
numerous disruptions in global value chains and a significant increase of energy prices have a very negative impact on the eu economy.
energy costs in europe are high in a global comparison, which makes it difficult for european companies to compete with global peers.
europe needs more cheap, green energy in order to get that, so we must continue rolling out the repower eu plan.
our main goal should be to transform europe’s strong fundamentals into more job opportunities, increased productivity, and stronger, more sustainable growth.
we know this all too well, because, in addition to the energy crisis, which is having a much greater impact in europe than in the rest of the world, europe is facing the efforts of third countries, who, let us not be afraid to say it, are trying to attract our industrial capacity.
but make no mistake, china is also encouraging energy-intensive companies to off-shore all or part of their production by promising them access to cheap electricity and a less strict regulatory environment than in europe.
thirdly, it is about putting in place sustainable solutions that work for all eu countries.
we have ambitions to be the first carbon neutral continent by 2050. that is a beautiful and strong ambition.
– madam president, in a way, it’s ironic that it takes an inflation reduction act in the us and high energy prices to put our industrial competitiveness higher on the agenda of this house.
we want items made in europe, but we want them to be made here because the business environment, our educated workers and our regulations make businesses want to grow here.
we need to invest at least 1% of european gdp every year to meet our climate goals.
i am thinking in particular of the circular economy, because it offers enormous potential for local, sustainable and quality jobs for europeans.
and finally, ladies and gentlemen, faster licensing procedures, not just for renewable energy, but for all investments.
we are thinking of renationalising certain sectors and forcing companies to intervene, to invest in renewable energy.
the committee on the environment will make a whole series of proposals to protect us, to protect our democracy, to fight against false information, cybercrime and of course other european coordination actions, especially in the field of education for the youngest.
it is up to us at european level to provide economic and social solutions in the field of energy for every european citizen and to ensure that europe is an opportunity for everyone and for everyone across our territories, everywhere in europe.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the preparation of the special european council meeting of february, in particular the need to develop sustainable solutions in the area of asylum and migration (2023/2508(rsp)).
much can be achieved by improving the business environment and by cutting red tape.
we also need a fully—developed and integrated european capital market and an ambitious, robust and sustainable trade agenda.
but let me be clear, it is not with senseless deregulation, dismantling workers’ rights or environmental standards, or this so-called moratorium on regulation that we can make the european union strong and competitive for the 21st century.
our competitiveness will depend on how well we can lead the green transformation globally, supporting green industries, being the first when it comes to climate—friendly and environmentally—friendly technologies.
yes, for that we will actually need green and sustainable regulation to give planning security to our companies and, yes, for setting the scene globally to move ahead with the green transformation.
mr president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to adopt sustainable solutions at this summit, we must change the paradigm.
because they know that's the most efficient way of reaching zero emissions for cars and vans.
what also strikes me is that a large majority of people want road transport and the use of cars and vans to be climate neutral and to be fossil fuel free.
it is important to note that the production of synthetic fuels requires precisely this expensive energy, and in a very inefficient way.
if you want to be climate neutral, then of course that power must also be renewable, generated by windmills and solar panels, for example.
critical raw materials are important for the entire energy transition.
cars and light commercial vehicles are responsible for over 70% of polluting emissions from road transport.
the transition to climate neutrality set out in the green deal requires us to increase the ambition of co2 standards for these types of vehicles substantially.
we continue to build a union that protects the health and well-being of citizens from environmental risks and impacts, and build a greener, more sustainable, fairer and more inclusive economic model.
the dogmatic decision to only allow electric vehicles in 2035 is bad for sustainable development.
this decision does not take into account environmental, economic and social aspects.
mining of minerals for batteries has disastrous environmental and human consequences in africa.
finally, the co2 emissions calculation is based on the use of the car only, not on the entire production cycle (car, battery, recycling).
it is for them and on their behalf that i call for dialogue, common sense and compromise among peoples, for an end to violence in the service of obscure interests and its replacement by a process of sustainable development that takes advantage of the region's enormous potential.
we need all of these for the energy transition, for example.
this is essential to our strategic positioning on this planet in our fight against dictatorships, against autocrats, for a more open society -- because we are offering the people on the ground the better alternatives, with strong environmental protection, with strong human rights conditions, so that the people on the ground can really build some of their own battery production, for example.
this is the difference in energy prices between the united states and the european union.
but by taking the energy sector into our own hands, we can lower prices for industry and citizens and, in fact, guarantee the ecological transition here, publicly, as denmark has done with a public company, ørsted.
almost one in six buildings in europe has the worst efficiency (energy class g).
in europe, about 40% of the energy used is used to heat buildings.
energy efficiency renovation of buildings is usually worthwhile, as the energy savings generated are usually several times higher than the investment required to improve the energy efficiency of the building.
the european parliament and the member states have agreed to extend the european emissions trading system to the construction sector.
unfortunately, the energy performance of buildings directive is beginning to duplicate this agreement in some respects and this is not in line with sound legislation.
the draft also does not provide clear quality requirements for the indoor climate after renovation of buildings.
because of high energy prices, there are already initiatives across europe to increase the thermal performance of buildings.
it can therefore be assumed that the energy efficiency improvement of buildings will continue vigorously even without any european union directive.
setting targets that are not achievable discredits climate goals rather than encouraging them.
ensuring a secure energy supply and ensuring access to affordable energy is one of the main tasks of the european union and its member states.
this requires not only the development of low-carbon energy capacities but also the maximum use of the potential of energy efficiency.
the energy modernisation of the european building stock is a matter of urgency and therefore the amendment of the energy in buildings directive is timely and justified.
it is therefore of great importance that the regulation includes assessments on the basis of embedded carbon and life cycle.
in addition, the new directive includes provisions to strengthen digitalisation and sustainable mobility.
these proposals do not help but hinder the energy modernisation of the european building stock.
more energy-neutral buildings will have a positive impact on air quality and therefore on health, by reducing co2 emissions.
they will also reduce our energy dependence on countries like russia.
the energy crisis and the price rises we are also facing in slovenia have greatly accelerated social hardship and social inequality.
there is a high level of ambition among the member states to ensure that minimum income support is at an adequate level that fosters participation in society and contributes to a sustainable participation in the labour market.
social exclusion has been exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic and the ongoing war in russia, which has led to inflation and rising food and energy prices for the first time in decades.
the intention is to replace it with measures that risk reducing, rather than increasing, the resources to be allocated to disadvantaged individuals and families, who are increasingly harmed by rising energy prices and the cost of living.
in order to achieve this, we have already taken a number of initiatives in recent years, such as wage transparency, adequate minimum wages, the child guarantee, the social climate fund, the european platform to combat homelessness and the ongoing dossier for better social protection of platform workers.
the energy crisis and high inflation have caused the cost of living to skyrocket in terms of energy, housing, food.
– i do remember the negotiations in the council where this very fragile agreement on a clean energy package was achieved.
and i think that the energy crisis actually has helped us to accelerate also work on prosumers side.
– last summer, on top of russian manipulation, we had severe environmental conditions that triggered unexpected maintenance of several nuclear power plants and didn’t allow us to use the full potential of hydropower.
on top of that, in 2022, eu—27 member states were able to cut their co2 emissions by 2.5%, so that shows that actually the new installations of renewables also helped us to tackle this very, very difficult situation.
– that might be true that i have named several emergency measures on top of existing legislation that helped us to tackle this energy crisis last year.
prices are down to pre-war levels and eu co2 emissions are significantly decreased.
for example, today we approved a document that talks about how we should have energy-efficient buildings.
i come from a country that has more than 50 percent of its energy mix nuclear electricity or electricity from nuclear sources.
i would like to ask, given that the 11th package of sanctions against russia is currently being discussed, which also mentions the possibility of a ban on the import of fuel from the russian federation, how the commission intends to deal with aid to these member states, which will then have to source these resources for nuclear power stations from other countries, which will be more difficult in terms of energy but also more difficult financially, because it is not an entirely simple matter.
and this is really about the self-sufficiency of countries, that we can talk about renewable resources, which are beautiful, but they're not always usable, and of course it takes some time to get them up and running.
– thank you for your question, and i appreciate very much the chance to discuss energy performance of the buildings directive yesterday in front of this plenary.
you mentioned that challenges are bigger for some member states and it might take time to decarbonise building stock – building stock that is right now responsible for 40% of eu energy consumption.
in this regard, i highly appreciate the vote that gave the mandate through your rapporteur to start the negotiations with the council because buildings have a huge, cost-effective potential to reduce and optimise energy consumption.
and the epbd on top of that clearly addresses also the root cause of energy poverty.
they will cut energy consumption.
they will create a healthier living environment.
it is very timely that we met and discussed our global cooperation with the usa today in the deteriorating security environment at our borders and with a number of security challenges arising across the world daily.
but what i can tell you is that we are going to work on an agreement on critical raw materials to ensure that our supply chains in europe have market access and that we are going to start a dialogue on clean energy incentives to build each other's capacity.
and the second result, as i have said, is the launching of this dialogue on clean energy incentives so that we can both work in a complementary way.
one thing is clear: the system that the united states has sought to fight climate change, which is massive subsidies to renewable energy producers, is not the same as the one we have used so far, which has used instruments such as prices, through the system of emission allowances, or taxes, such as the border adjustment tax.
let me tell you that if we want to get agreements to limit climate change, peace and cooperation, we cannot limit ourselves to like-minded countries.
the status of bosnia and herzegovina today can be compared with that of ukraine, thanks to you, thanks to you personally, thanks to this european parliament and also to my country, the republic of slovenia, which has invested a great deal of energy and effort in recent months to give this country, after ten years of stagnation, a european perspective.
we support fully the international atomic energy agency on its impartial work to clarify what is the source of this enriched uranium, and which is the real concern that it represents for the nuclear path of iran.
and since we're friends, but we're also competitors, how do we actually help these countries fight climate change?
because very often these resources that we use and extract cause various environmental problems.
how do we help which countries to deal with climate change?
i am thinking of energy, migration, climate and defence.
furthermore, sustainable cooperation for a blue economy in and around the north sea.
madam president, cybercrime, investment fraud, corruption, human trafficking, organised crime affects a great many sectors, including environmental crime, which has risen to the third highest level of criminal activity in the world.
environmental crime is multifaceted.
wildlife waste trafficking, illegal dumping of substances, and often has very long-term consequences for human health, the environment, ecosystems, but also our economies, our security.
the judiciary and the competent authorities, including the european public prosecutor's office, must be given the human and financial resources to successfully fight environmental crime.
and if the right wing really wants to make this a priority in the fight against organised crime, why did it vote against all the opinions of the committees strengthening the directive on environmental crime?
in the current climate of post-pandemic crisis, the war against ukraine, high energy prices and inflation, it is even more important that gender-responsive approaches are at the centre of building the future of the union of equality.
when facing the climate crisis, every day of inaction costs us more than we can afford in economic and human terms.
our energy sovereignty cannot be found in more fossil fuels.
fit for 55 does fight for energy crisis.
the agreements and the broad support voiced in the debate show once again the european union’s determination to become climate neutral by 2050, transform our economy and society, leave no one behind and ensure our energy security.
in the face of strong headwinds mentioned in some contributions, we continue delivering on the european green deal for a sustainable future.
this was made possible thanks to the extension of the new emissions trading system to additional sectors, bringing additional revenues, as you know, and the agreement on national contributions of 25% of the total estimated costs.
moreover, member states will also use their national auction revenues from the new system for climate-related purposes, including to address social impacts.
the social climate fund would also be a redistribution mechanism financed by the polluter pays principle.
the 20% richest households are responsible for 32% of building and transport emissions, while the 20% of the poorest are only responsible of 9% of these emissions.
your vote tomorrow will be a major step forward in the fight against climate change, as these files, together with the rest of the fit for 55 files, will mark the future of the welfare of our environment, our economy and our citizens.
– mr president, there was quite some criticism on the package and on my report, there was criticism from the far right, and i think their basic argument was climate change is not so serious and i can’t follow that argument.
we need to build up renewable energies and all the other technologies that we need for the transition faster.
and member states have the obligation to spend all the money from the second phase of the ets, also the national revenues which are almost twice as much as this eur 86 billion from the social climate fund, in accordance with social criteria.
we have all worked together to ensure that we have the best agreement that defends our climate, that defends families, that defends workers, the elderly, pensioners.
proud that the social climate fund is the most significant social measure in this climate transition.
i mentioned in the beginning that this package, ets, cbam and the social climate fund is in a way the core triangle of fit for 55. since i have a new commissioner here that allows me and i believe she's from dubrovnik, so she knows a thing or two about navigation to say that this is the core part of the fit for 55 package, because it allows us to have a compass.
the commission has shown that the social climate fund, even though it is relatively small, when used in the right way by member states will actually compensate the lowest income groups fully for the introduction of ets2.
and we have built in several safeguards to make sure that ets doesn't come when the energy prices remain high.
that means that we need to work on energy prices, speeding up our independence from other providers.
that bloody well puts an obligation on member states to use that money well for the climate, but also socially.
ladies and gentlemen, i want to stress once again that what we promised in our campaign programme as the epp group is that we are delivering on our climate pledges.
the fit for 55 package is a set of policies proposed by the european union to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030, but although these policies are designed to benefit the environment, they may present some challenges for the outermost regions (ors).
possible problems for the ors include limited access to renewable energy sources, dependence on air and maritime transport which may be affected by proposed changes in emission standards, resulting in higher costs and reduced accessibility to transport for these regions, impacts on economic competitiveness due to the carbon border tax, as they have limited resources and are vulnerable to economic shocks and the impacts of climate change.
we know, for example, that the 'fit for 55' package includes provisions for climate adaptation, but it is not clear how these measures will be implemented and how effective they will be for the ors.
overall, while the 'fit for 55' package is an important step in tackling climate change, it is important to consider the potential impacts in all regions, including the ors.
by addressing these concerns and working collaboratively, the eu can ensure that its climate policies are effective, equitable and inclusive.
the social climate fund aims to alleviate the socio-economic burden on the population from the energy efficiency requirements for buildings and transport after 2026 by supporting vulnerable households, transport users and micro-enterprises.
the measures in the adjustment to objective 55 package are most certainly necessary to move towards a more sustainable world.
but sustainability is precisely the consideration of several aspects: the environment, of course, but also the need to take into account social and economic aspects.
the contribution from the social climate fund must be used to support the middle class, and especially the rural class.
it is time for belgium to adopt a sustainable investment approach, which will benefit, in particular, from the improvement of railway services, especially in wallonia and the outermost regions.
i sincerely hope that belgium is prepared to make it into something that will support a concrete but sustainable transition.
moreover, ladies and gentlemen, our shift towards renewable energy is going to be a pudding without the rare earths, for which china has strategically made itself almost indispensable.
at the same time, we need to modernise our economy, support smes and our farmers, and make sure our citizens are protected by investing more in our defence industry, in an inclusive digital and green transition and in increasing our energy independence.
this leaves us very little room to finance our investment priorities, commissioner, in the strategic areas of energy independence, youth, the ecological and digital transition and sovereignty, dear to my colleague valérie hayer.
because we're talking about key proposals that will define our transportation network, energy interconnections, the tools we're going to implement to achieve climate neutrality, how we train our youth or how we help businesses in the digital transition, and even how we welcome migrants and refugees.
mr president, the budget of the european union, especially in the context of the sharp rise in the cost of living which is suffocating people and workers, and which is inseparable from the eu's policy options, must contribute to promoting investment, improving public services, supporting the productive and strategic sectors, promoting food and energy sovereignty, creating jobs with rights and increasing wages and pensions, combating poverty, social exclusion and growing inequalities, and protecting the environment and biodiversity.
the citizens of europe no longer want to be robbed and cheated, no longer want to pay the full cost of crises, climate change and even putin's war.
this impact of the coronavirus, inflation crisis, energy crisis, certainly the war in ukraine: only those events in the last three years are enough to shake up our perceptions of europe of tomorrow.
that being the case, mr prime minister, i think it is really essential that you also take part in a strategic autonomy which is not open but firm and solid in different sectors for europe: food, energy, defence - three sectors which are essential for the development of the whole of europe.
how can we succeed in climate change policy without talking about farmers, the men and women who fight every day to feed us?
– madam president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you for inviting me today to the discussion on this important topic, which is closely linked to the european green deal and its environmental and climate objectives.
pfas are hazardous for people, animals and the environment, and they are known to persist in nature for a long time.
phasing out pfas is therefore crucial to protect our environment and health.
fulfilling our climate goals is our duty.
we have to work towards achieving a high level of health and environmental protection in line with the treaties.
in its 8th environmental action programme, the eu committed to achieving six priority objectives, among which is pursuing a zero-pollution ambition, including for air, water and soil, and protecting the health and well-being of europeans.
these ambitious objectives include tackling the impact of harmful chemicals on the environment and human health.
that is why initiatives such as the chemicals strategy for sustainability and the biodiversity strategy are so important.
protecting the environment should go hand in hand with preserving the competitiveness of our economy.
a revised reach is also the main tool to deliver on the chemicals strategy for sustainability.
the council is also happy to see that pfas are included in the list of pollutants in the recent proposal amending the water framework directive, the groundwater directive and the environmental quality standards directive.
– madam president, dear minister, honourable members of parliament, i think we can all agree that the commission, parliament and council share the ambition to keep our water and soil clean and free from pollutants that harm human health and the environment.
the commission is committed to the green deal and the chemicals strategy for sustainability and to moving towards a toxic-free environment.
these commitments must be in line with our individual and collective commitments towards the un sustainable development goals, including the one health approach and sustainable consumption and production.
they are a major concern for human health and the environment.
given the complexity of the proposal, this will be a long process, but i believe we all share the same goal, to strike a balance between two legitimate public interests: the need to protect public health, the environment and vulnerable groups, and the need to secure european investments in certain technologies for decarbonisation.
simplifying how the authorisation process works is another key goal, to boost innovation and the production of safer and more sustainable chemicals.
for our legal framework to become more effective in preventing harm to health and the environment, we are also looking at extending the generic approach to risk management.
priority will be given to uses where citizens and the environment are highly exposed.
ensuring a healthy living environment free from exposure to harmful chemicals is essential.
many of these harmful substances are no longer produced by our environment, or even by the human body.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while acknowledging the effort made in trying to overcome the rigidity of the present european financial rules, we must stress that the commission's choices do not take into account the alteration of a scenario strongly affected by war, inflation and the energy crisis, with the collateral effects in economic terms that have resulted.
you are speaking frankly of a success of european policy, while the belgians, for example, still pay twice as much for their energy as they did before the crisis.
why are there no agreements with america yet on sustainable steel and aluminum and critical raw materials?
first, quality employment and second, a healthy living environment.
deregulation means to be flexible, for example, in obtaining environmental permits.
in belgium now, in some areas, people are sometimes afraid to drink clean water because of pollution.
the positive thing is that the parliament is finally becoming aware that we need nuclear energy for decarbonisation and energy security.
however, it is unacceptable that public procurement should be given a weighting factor of at least 30%, not only for the environment but also for social sustainability and resilience.
secondly, trade agreements serve as a lever for working conditions, human rights, sustainability and climate objectives.
the commissioner has already made progress in this free trade agreement, particularly in the area of sustainability and better environmental consideration.
i cannot accept the fact that the commission is continuing to increase the administrative and financial burden, with ever higher environmental objectives for our agriculture, and at the same time is opening its doors and considers agriculture as an adjustment variable in the free trade agreements.
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
it is time for this world to change in favour of the living standards of the most precarious and middle classes, but also to finance the indispensable energy and ecological transitions.
this is an invaluable financial asset which is completely untapped, but which would restore citizens' confidence in the tax system and enable us to invest heavily in the ecological and social transition.
and in these times of energy crisis, the big multinational energy companies have obviously filled their pockets.
i see in some countries, including my own, they’ve the mistaken idea that if you leave it in the ground in ireland, take it out of the ground in some other country, import it into ireland, that you’re actually helping to fight climate change.
i would like to conclude by recalling the commission's commitment to make a statement on the forthcoming revision of the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment.
ladies and gentlemen, with the legislation on critical raw materials, we are moving forward in the service of our ecological and digital transitions, but also in the service of strengthening europe's resilience.
commission statement (in writing)in the upcoming review of directive 2012/19/eu on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee), the commission will assess the feasibility of introducing information requirements and targets for the collection and recovery of critical raw materials from waste electrical and electronic equipment and take that assessment into account as appropriate in any possible subsequent legislative proposal.
is there a better partner than the united states to tackle the climate challenge?
mr president, the european union and the governments are guilty: very expensive public housing, greedy rents, an explosion of accuracy and energy poverty, the successive increases in interest rates by the european central bank, the auctioning of public housing.
we are creating an environment where young people can build their future with hope and stability.
mr president, dear all, dear commissioner, with the rising energy prices, increased inflation and a struggling economy, it’s a difficult time for everyone.
secondly, converting vacancy to occupancy means less carbon emissions than new builds.
and that is the same resilience, and it is the same ambition that is needed in the global fight against climate change.
and during this cop28, the european union, and usually i am quite critical of the commission and the council, but we have shown to be the strongest when it comes to the fight against climate change and to protect the environment.
and this is the ambition, this is the resilience that we need from young people in the coming weeks and months and years, so that they continue pushing us in order to achieve what needs to be achieved for our climate.
catch-the-eye procedure
madam president, the climate summit will therefore be about fossil fuels.
but before we can start as europeans, as climate advocates in the face of the rest of the world, we must look at the facts a little further: today we are investing heavily in new terminals to accommodate us shale gas.
this extraction releases methane, huge amounts of methane, which is a bit like coal for the climate.
with the current investment, we will not reach half the target for 2030. so let's change course, let's not leave this to the goodwill of multinationals but let's take it back, publicly, for cheap green energy all over europe.