with the completion of the internal energy market, the full realisation of the single market is fundamental to the well-being of europeans and to their international and european union assertion.
the european union plays a key role in international trade relations and has become a leader in areas such as energy, consumer rights and environmental protection.
aggression against a country is the most serious crime, and therefore russia's leaders must be held accountable for the act of aggression and the resulting swearing, acts of terrorism, civilian deaths, millions of refugees, decayed cities, environmental disaster and looted cultural assets.
in october, in an election-related environment, the epp forced a debate on bulgaria on a subject that only their friend borisov cared about, and on a subject that had long been settled in court.
increasing employee participation is a step towards more sustainable enterprises and improved well-being at work.
employee participation should not be to the detriment of the ability of management to manage its business in a complex and competitive environment, further aggravated by the economic and financial crisis.
finally, iris is also an opportunity for the union to do space differently, by taking advantage of the sector's start-up fabric, by giving a chance to new technologies, perhaps more risky, but which alone can allow a real breakthrough, a disruption that will benefit, i am personally convinced, the entire space ecosystem, the more traditional companies, but equally to our entire start-up ecosystem.
wars, disasters and climate change are making it urgent for europe to acquire its own capacity to extract and transfer information in space.
president, since 2019, citizens have been experiencing the climate agenda of commissioner frans timmermans, the european green deal: an agenda of carbon taxes and ever-tightening climate and environmental laws that suffocate farmers and citizens.
however, it was prime minister rutte who wanted commissioner timmermans to be in the european climate post in 2019 and considered his appointment an important milestone.
and on the subject of climate change, let me say that we must also aim to make the cars on the road today cleaner, and that can only be done with alternative fuels.
the question is: how do we make the transport sector cleaner, how do we reduce co2 emissions in transport?
if the production of an electric car requires more energy, then we definitely have a better solution.
sophia, my capital often gets on top of the world air pollution charts.
whether the market will shift to zero emissions is no longer a question.
i believe we will live in the climate-neutral and combustion-neutral society without burning fossil fuels for our mobility, but not through administrative bans.
this parliament has supported humanitarian measures for displaced persons, it has supported the commitment to strategic autonomy and energy autonomy, it has supported the sanctions against russia and it also supports military aid to ukraine.
europe was too dependent on russian energy for too long, and that delayed the imposition of effective sanctions.
we in europe need metals and minerals if we are serious about the green transition and tackling climate change.
we see this over and over again: in the nature restoration regulation; in the deforestation file; in the industrial emissions directive.
it is essential for europe's security and economic, as well as environmental and social sustainability, that we strengthen our own production and also create partnerships with the rest of the world.
it's not that environmental standards are the reason.
without the secured supply, we would not be able to deliver our plans for net carbon neutrality.
at the moment, at the next plenary session, we’re about to approve the parliament's position on the energy performance for building directive, which aims to renovate the eu building stock.
in an environment of growing repressions, no one feels safe.
the commission fully agrees that cycling presents a huge potential for climate change mitigation, offering an alternative to motorised trips, in particular in cities.
the sustainable and smart mobility strategy provides for a significant increase in the length of cycling infrastructure and for the more effective inclusion of cycling as one of the ten-t last-mile solutions.
cycling also has an important place in the new eu urban mobility framework of 2021. its role and potential is also well reflected in many other initiatives such as eu save energy of the repowereu initiative.
to improve the energy performance of public buildings, the commission also proposed the minimum availability of charging and parking places for electric bikes.
finally and importantly, the proposed requirements in the revised ten-t regulation regarding the adoption of sustainable urban mobility plans by the major cities should result in the accelerated growth of cycling share across the european union because that is where the action to promote cycling will start and is already underway in our cities and regions.
of course, cycling has enormous benefits, not only those i just said, but protecting the environment, less pollution, less congestion on the road.
the colleague has already spoken about the economic benefits, about the large market that can be created, about the additional one million new sustainable jobs that will improve the welfare of the citizens of the european union.
we have just marked one—year anniversary of our repowereu agenda, and we have come very far in building an energy system that is more secure and less dependent on russian fossil fuels.
but clearly, there is no time to lose for strengthening our security of supply and energy sovereignty.
a stronger eu framework on energy efficiency will help us stay on course to reach our 2030 energy and climate targets, and it will help turn temporary energy savings into structural efficiency, it will support industry’s competitiveness.
we agreed last week to the revision of the energy efficiency directive.
reviewing the energy performance of buildings is the next and crucial part of achieving our goal.
buildings are the biggest consumer of energy in the eu.
we need robust provisions where it matters most and, in particular, on minimum energy performance standards, phase out of fossil fuel boilers, and zero—emission standards for new buildings.
the current pace of energy renovation is simply too slow.
let me mention three of them.first, the minimum energy performance standards.
the aim is to start renovating the worst-performing buildings, those where every inhabitant faces energy bills that are highest, and often those where the most disadvantaged people are living.
and third, strengthening energy performance certificates is essential to give consumers, both building owners and tenants, clear and credible information.
honourable members, the view on the energy performance of buildings directive plays a key role in our strategy for a cost-effective transition to net zero.
higher energy performing buildings are better places to live, have lower energy costs, and generate benefits for our society as a whole.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
secondly, it has an undeniable positive effect on the environment, and a significant positive effect.
third, but not least, it has a huge geopolitical effect, by supporting the energy independence of the european union and by supporting our efforts to economically isolate the aggressive russian empire.
it is therefore not surprising that in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, although after difficult negotiations, we have reached a serious compromise in support of this directive.
as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would only stress that our agreement is based primarily not on administrative coercion, but on the idea that support for the renovation of buildings is natural.
and i would particularly like to highlight what has been carried over from our report to the main report of the committee on industry, research and energy: the 'pay as you save' schemes which will help everyone to take advantage of the opportunity to renovate their property.
the energy crisis has shown us how vulnerable europe is to sudden energy price hikes.
even after this crisis is over, gas prices will remain significantly higher than before 2022. the new normal will hit the pockets of people in the worst performing buildings up to 10 times harder than in energy efficient buildings.
i have heard from colleagues that the expansion of the ets and an upscaling of renewable energy should be enough.
but alone these are not enough or technically feasible to reach our 2030 and 2050 climate goals.
the epbd is as much about asset protection as it is about climate change, where investments see tangible and predictable returns.
lastly, the epbd also holds the significant added value of job creation if implemented: 18 000 long-term secure jobs will be created for every billion invested in energy efficiency, for example.
– madam president, dear commissioner simson, dear colleagues, the directive on energy performance of buildings is probably one of the most relatable legislation from the fit for 55 package to our citizens.
we all know how the energy bills skyrocketed last year, and we do all understand that if we consume less, we’re going to save more.
for countries where the energy and heating bills take the majority of the monthly expenses, any improvement in the building efficiency will lead to more money saved for any other needs.
it paves the way for the reduction of our energy consumption and our bills.
it focuses on lifting our households from energy poverty.
it also offers flexibility for derogation when it comes to the labour workers, to the construction sector, but at the same time it keeps the ambitious goals of reaching the climate targets we have set and protecting from energy poverty our citizens.
madam president, mr vice-president, colleagues, there is a paradox, and that is that the success of european climate policy will not be measured in percentage terms in the 50s, or the 55s, or the 57s, or the 2030s, or the 2032s.
it will be measured in economic efficiency success, which can make this policy attractive to the whole world and so really help us in the fight against climate.
there is a huge potential for economic development in central and eastern europe based on the european climate law.
we have huge opportunities for both critical materials mining and battery production and hydrogen production, and not just renewable energy production, but to bring back the production of renewable energy on the european continent.
my country, bulgaria, has so far reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by over 40 percent since the 1990s, but not because of modern technological development, but because of deindustrialization.
in an environment where the technology is all around us, data is the key asset that can drive innovation and growth in the economy and that can upscale businesses and enhance customer driven solutions.
the eu faces a huge number of challenges today - on the one hand, those arising from the green deal's ambitious goals on the environment and digitalisation, and on the other, europe's energy dependence and galloping inflation rooted in the russian attack on ukraine.
we need more investment in digital transition and climate-neutral industries.
the eu must ensure affordable energy for all european citizens.
dear commissioner, in the summer of 2022, we faced a real perfect storm in the european energy system with the problems that blocked french nuclear power plants, with the drought which impeded hydropower on a european level, with heat and subsequent peak consumption of electricity and, of course, the main reason, the war in ukraine and the disruption of gas markets.
so hence, i’m calling for a more stable regulatory environment when we speak about the eu market that protects start-ups and facilitates the protection of investors and capital going in that direction.
we remain very conscious and cautious about the new environment that we are living in, and we will reflect very closely on what has happened in the us, mindful that we are negotiating the banking package.
however, the likelihood of a new large-scale financial crisis is very low, as the broad sector stabilisation and regulatory reforms since the previous financial crisis have strengthened confidence in the european financial market and its sustainability.
i'm curious to see what comes out of the re-evaluation of glyphosate, whether we actually have environmental interests that prevail or economic interests.
these objectives can be summarised as: reducing pesticides, using pesticides, increasing biodiversity and supporting farmers.
not only that: but thanks to the environmental dimension of the cap, today more than 10% of the arable land in the union is dedicated to the protection of biodiversity.
that is why, commissioner, we must make available to european farmers all those technological and innovative solutions, starting with sustainable biotechnologies, which are alternatives to the use of chemicals which are harmful to pollinators.
the survival of four out of five species of flowering plants depends on pollinators, who contribute to the balance of our ecosystem.
environment, health, economy: it is also thanks to pollinators that products essential for a healthy and balanced diet arrive on our tables.
we need to preserve biodiversity, restore pollinator habitats, promote favourable farming practices and ensure a more sustainable use of plant protection products, while providing our farmers with viable alternatives.
each of us must do our part to preserve our guardians of biodiversity.
it was a sign of a healthy and diverse ecosystem.
it was supposed to reduce the use of pesticides and protect biodiversity and our precious ecosystems.
in fairness to the new cap, it does try and support farmers in this regard because the space for nature and biodiversity measures reward farmers for helping to create a better environment for all bees and all other aspects in nature.
mr president, the emissions trading scheme now under discussion is one of the most effective climate tools in the european union.
it has also been shown in studies to be a very technology-neutral and market-based way of reducing emissions.
now that the objective has been set of reducing emissions by 62% by 2030 through this ets, we must at the same time ensure that our companies are competitive and that this does not lead to carbon leakage outside the european union.
emissions trading will also be extended to maritime transport.
the emissions trading system will also be tightened up for aviation, and in aviation, as in maritime transport, it is important that we act at international level, because it is not enough to tighten up emissions trading within the european union for these global sectors, but we must involve the whole world.
road transport and buildings will also be included in the emissions trading scheme, and the proceeds from these will be used to finance the social climate fund.
i must say that i have been and still am very critical of the social climate fund.
today, the global environmental crisis, resulting in severe climate change, threatens the very existence of mankind.
through the unwise use of resources, human civilizations have themselves caused irreversible changes in the environment, resulting in their own extinction.
today, climate change, resource depletion and pollution have reached a critical point.
it is our responsibility not to waste this chance, which may be one of our last, and i hope that everyone in this room is aware of what is at stake, how the laws discussed today cannot be delayed.
madam president, dear commissioner, dear members, we’ve seen the rise of the energy prices across all the member states in the last 18 months.
it is clear that the renewable energy is the cheapest one.
in that sense, we welcome the latest effort of the commission to boost investments in the entire value chain of battery manufacturing in the eu, because this is also the only way to ensure that we’re going to have sustainable energy resources for our economy.
the next item is the debate on council and commission statements on ‘dieselgate – suspected widespread use of defeat devices in cars to reduce effectiveness of pollution control systems’ (2023/2647(rsp)).
air pollution remains, despite all efforts and improvements, the largest environment environmental health risk in europe.
diesel vehicles are a major contributor to poor air quality, due to high nitrogen oxide emissions, and have a harmful effect on both human health and ecosystems.
in this respect, i would like to recognise the work of parliament and its committee of inquiry into emission measurement in the automotive sector (emis) and committee on environment, public health and food safety (envi) to achieve greater transparency in the automotive sector.
i would also like to recall that we have made significant progress since 2015 to accelerate the green transition in the transport sector, for example, through the decision to ban the sale of new diesel and petrol cars from 2035. the very recent report from the international council on clean transportation has revealed the widespread use of defeat devices in euro 5 and euro 6 diesel cars manufactured before the real-driving emissions test procedure was implemented.
a series of improvements have been implemented in the latest steps of the euro 6 to prevent unauthorised use of defeat devices, for example, the real-driving emissions test procedure.
real driving emission testing has led to a considerable drop in the real amount of nox emissions, well below the legal limit.
this is good for air quality, notably in urban areas with heavy traffic and above all, consumers are better informed of the real environmental performance of the vehicles they purchase.
and finally, we also want to ensure that future generations of vehicles are developed according to the best environmental standards.
this is why the commission adopted in november 2022 a proposal for euro 7, which sets new standards for air pollutant emissions from light and heavy duty vehicles, including from electric vehicles, which is currently under discussion by the european parliament and the council.
the study shows the results of emissions tests conducted by member states covering the period from 2016 to 2020 in the framework of national post—dieselgate investigations to reassess the excess nox emissions from european diesel cars.
this study is complemented by tests performed by independent third parties and by an analysis of icct’s own database of roadside measurements that collects a snapshot of the emissions of vehicles as they pass by.
the commission also requested member states to identify the authors of the manipulations and apply national penalty procedures to sanction possible breaches of eu pollutant emissions rules.
the german federal environment agency itself has thus certified that there are virtually no exceedances of the applicable limit values in germany.
there are still many cars on our roads with very high nox emissions, and most european consumers have not been compensated.
madam president, the report from the international council on clean transportation shows that nothing has changed since the dieselgate scandal in 2015. in fact, 77 per cent of tests still reveal so-called suspicious emissions, a figure which could be explained by the possibility that millions of diesel cars in europe use a tampering device.
the ep's emis committee of inquiry revealed a lack of political will to act to protect air quality and public health, despite the fact that the european commission and the member states have known for more than a decade that there are discrepancies between laboratory and road nitrous oxide emissions tests.
the european institutions and the member states must choose between continuing to serve the interests of the motor lobby or safeguarding the environment and the health of citizens.
it's especially important because we now have an extreme right and a nationalist right trying to trump trump in the united states with their climate denial.
then we need the ipcc, and the message is crystal clear: we need to accelerate the pace of emissions reductions.
fortunately, we have taken important decisions here in parliament this week to reduce emissions and to increase the pace of our transition work.
we must accelerate, we must increase energy efficiency and we must invest in renewables, not lock ourselves like silly children in a technology that is socially, economically and ecologically unsustainable, such as nuclear power.
the transition requires more left-wing politics, more justice, more investment in the common, in the socially sustainable, in welfare, in education and in gender equality.
that's where the future lies if we're going to survive the climate change.
mr president, the latest ipcc report underscores the urgency of the climate crisis.
it presents findings on climate science, mitigation and adaptation, highlighting the need for immediate and ambitious action to limit global warming and its impacts.
we have repeatedly underlined the fact that decarbonising our economy is the only viable solution to achieve our climate goals.
we cannot afford to waste any more time in our efforts to boost the production and use of renewable energy and retrofitting our buildings.
in addition to fast—tracking the deployment of renewable energy, it is crucial that the eu recognises the importance of climate finance, particularly in protecting climate—vulnerable communities.
we need to ensure that such communities have resources and financial support in their efforts to build resilience and reduce emissions.
those who have the least contribution to pollution, deforestation, depletion of natural resources.
they don't generate tons of harmful emissions, but they have to think about their physical survival every day because they just can't put out the fire.
we all know that the gdp indicator is currently quite deficient, and so too with the debt and growth pact, we have to look at social and environmental capital and also analyse what is bad debt, for example fossil subsidies, and what is good, debt supporting the green transition.
and we should not allow this to happen – because then we are risking the growth and the sustainability of our economy.
it is fundamental to provide workers with the means to adapt to a constantly changing environment.
mr. chairman, it is clear that the majority in this chamber supports the goals of legislation for more and cheaper renewable energy, as well as for renewable energy that is environmentally friendly.
firstly, the limited definition of renewable energy, excluding for example the use of hydrogen sulphide in the black sea.
secondly, and above all, the lack of a pan-european balancing infrastructure of the north-south priority corridors for electricity transmission to balance the peak periods of solar energy in southern europe and the peak periods of wind energy in northern europe.
and last but not least, the risk of increasing gas dependence, the so-called gas lock of our energy system, which requires us to introduce a new generation of capacity mechanisms that allow the transition from coal to low-carbon energy without locking in the so-called new dangerous transition fuel.
my fellow citizens, we are at the mercy of climate change, with unpredictable developments.
this role also carries great risks for the european project, because the decisions on the conduct of the war are taken outside the european union, but the risks and consequences of it directly affect the economy, the environment and even the future of the union itself.
i remember a discussion last year when we were very concerned about whether we could secure our energy supply, when the cost of electricity and gas was rising sharply, and we were afraid of growing social protests.
the commissioner spoke about what has made this possible: through the action to fill gas storage facilities what we have been working on through diversification of energy import infrastructure, through investment in renewable energy, energy efficiency, through efforts to reduce energy demand.
the commissioner also mentioned that we have a significant increase in the use of renewable energy, which is mainly due to photovoltaics also in my country there have been record achievements and wind farms.
secondly, during the energy crisis, the fossil fuel subsidies increased significantly.
this is not in line with the union's climate policy but it is in line with current realities.
the problem is that we're moving away from the market rules when it comes to energy.
thirdly, as the colleagues have already mentioned, energy prices remain high for both individual consumers and industry.
this is a good time to summarize the work of the energy union, because we started it nine years ago and for five years now we have a regulation on the management of the energy union.
and we all agree, rather, that this helped us overcome the crisis a year ago and also gave us many additional advantages and achievements that we would not have had without the energy union.
we have, as always, two main tasks ahead of us: energy security and climate action.
as far as energy security is concerned, as you know, we passed a gas storage regulation last year.
the energy union is amazing.
the energy union has failed.
the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's energy policy is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
and it is the old gas policy that has not worked, and it is the one that has led to the extreme energy prices that we have had over the last two years.
my europe is fighting for peace and for the climate.
for the climate, we must dump the gas.
mr president, i think the energy union is a very good project and i would like to break down these five pillars.
in the eighth report we are talking about security and solidarity, which is actually the first pillar of this energy union.
and so we need to support energy supplies more.
energy efficiency, which is the third pillar, i think, has two parts, and that's definitely what the cost-effectiveness of the energy we produce is.
and i would like to say here that we really should do more to make the energy we produce cheap, and make it available to all citizens, and really be an opportunity for them.
the second part of this energy efficiency, i think, is the impact that renewables are continually promoted have on nature.
what is the price of solar panels, for example, and whether wind energy really is not a problem for our farmers.
and here i would like to stress that i would be more supportive of nuclear energy and i am very pleased that slovakia has become part of the nuclear forum.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen many advances in the energy sector.
we have been able to review a very significant set of directives and regulations in the energy sector, notably the renewable energy directive and the energy efficiency directive.
we are currently in the final stages of negotiating the electricity market design and the remit, which aims to combat energy market manipulation.
and that is why, and that is why, i included liquefied natural gas in the report of the remit monitoring against energy market manipulation.
in the short term, we've found replacement supplies of some energy resources.
we don't have a really working energy union right now, and that leads to additional dividing lines in europe.
we need all the technology available to cut our energy costs.
affordable prices should be the main pillar around which we build our energy policies.
yes, at strictly controlled borders, yes, to improving living conditions in the countries of immigration, but without sincere and demanding dialogue between the two sides of the mediterranean on the issue of migration, solutions will not be sustainable.
the eu's utopian climate targets are now affecting truck and bus companies with unreasonable climate rules.
european transport is already a world leader in environmental and climate action.
outside the radical climate bubble, the reality is clear.
citizens want a reduction in living costs and a climate policy that is not alarmist or judges ordinary people, but that has faith in the future and trust in europe.
and now we are voting on another emission standard, this time for new heavy vehicles, and the report from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is even more destructive this time than the commission's original proposal.
not only are we eliminating industry by tightening emissions standards, but in our green blindness some colleagues may not have noticed that we can harm the environment by approving this report.
if we really care about the environment, we need to make public transport more attractive, not cripple it.
the commissioner, mr president, has said that it is very important that we reduce emissions in the transport sector.
we know that it is the only sector where emissions have only increased and trucks, heavy traffic, produce 25% of eu road transport emissions.
as you know, finland is very remote, sparsely populated and has a cold climate.
the conditions in finland are such that we use extremely heavy, large trucks, which is a cost-effective way to reduce emissions, since we can produce less co2 per tonne in a large truck than if we had two or three trucks carrying the same load.
we now aim to have 90% of new heavy-duty vehicles completely zero emissions by 2040. it is important that these largest combinations are now being limited, but we also need to increase technology neutrality, take into account biogas, renewable fuels and promote a lifecycle-based computational model.
i personally suggest that we add to this the carbon correction factor, the carbon correction factor, which can bring this technology into a neutral dimension.
mr president, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to thank all those fellow rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, especially in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for making this report a significant step forward in our efforts to decarbonise transport and setting clear and very definitive objectives.
truck standards play a key role not only as a legal framework but also as a catalyst for the sector's transition to clean energy.
this is vital not only for the protection of the environment but also for ensuring the long-term viability of the transport sector.
and most importantly, we have no financial, price justification for transporting these types of electric trucks, and we just can't afford it, and i'm not talking about today, tomorrow or before the election, and for the next term of office of the european institutions, we can't afford any more pro-inflation measures to fight climate change because climate change is a proven fact before us, but inflation is not the solution to this problem.
from the most trivial aspects of our daily lives (communication, mobility) to the biggest global challenges (environmental and climate transition), we are increasingly using, sometimes even unknowingly, space-related infrastructure, technologies and services.
to this end, the commission will propose a new eu space law to provide a stable and predictable legal framework for the safety, resilience and sustainability of space activities.
the european parliament has also been able to support the european union's efforts to achieve a more sustainable and sustainable future.
i also hope that our joint efforts for a democratic social environment, culture and education will be successful and that the remnants and propaganda artifacts of the totalitarian dictatorship will find their place in museums and textbooks.
carriers, you've again spoken a lot about what's happening in the international environment in chad, mali and burkina faso.
how much is the recovery and sustainability plan?
the commission has already made a number of proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment.
it is a truce that strengthens democracy, sustainable growth and inclusion through the reform of the treaties, the stability and growth pact, the right to asylum and the consolidation of the health union.
my answer is with bulgaria's ambitious and constructive participation in the implementation of eu policies and here i will draw attention to the energy security and independence policies that are also part of the eu's green pact.
what is your opinion, mr prime minister, about the potential of energy efficiency measures and the renewal of the building fund to achieve the energy mix objectives, reducing the carbon footprint and decarbonising, especially from the point of view of bulgaria?
in this respect, first, bulgaria is obliged to notify the european commission of the implementation of the 2014 embargo against russia, and secondly, specifically the decision on the derogation, it is necessary to notify the member states and the european commission of any export of lukoil that undergoes the environmental risk exemptions.
mr prime minister, the series of crises in recent years from health, energy, finance and security have affected europe and the world.
madam president, madam commissioner, the small modular reactors are an illusion, a dangerous distraction in the name of the climate emergency.
the text calls for investment to be diverted to sobriety and renewable energy.
the european union's objective is to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030. how can we defend a technology whose first reactors will not be in service until 2035?
more reactors, for a production of a few decades, also means more radioactive waste for hundreds of years, which we still do not know what to do with.
but nuclear power is almost over, nuclear power is already very small: 2% of final energy consumption and production is declining, which has reached its lowest level in 30 years.
nuclear power will not save the climate.
the climate goals cannot be achieved without nuclear power.
this was said by john kerry, the us representative at the un climate conference in dubai.
these citizens deserve a sound and balanced energy and climate policy.
i think that the climate here has clearly changed now because we need to get rid of fossil fuels and we need efficient, clean ways to produce energy safely and steadily.
this attitude is also shown by the fact that this very good report by mr bogovic on small nuclear power plants was very widely supported by the vote of the committee on industry and energy.
we also need a framework to promote joint licensing and flexible licensing processes so that we can actually start serial production and get investments started quickly, thus reducing emissions in europe and producing our own energy.
madam president, europe is a proven leader in nuclear energy in the global market and we need to keep investing in skills and innovation if we want to keep our competitive advantage.
the pledge made last week by 22 countries at cop28 to triple nuclear energy capacity by 2050 is a clear indication of the direction that has been taken.
we have the nuclear energy technology expertise.
at the same time, we have to keep investing in creating a balanced energy mix and, above all, a well-interconnected grid, if we want to achieve the climate and green targets that we have set ahead of us.
mr president, the truth is that we are witnessing a global race for resource control in the context of an ecological emergency.
green capitalism is barren in the face of the climate and ecological urgency we are living in.
mr president, commissioner breton, dear colleagues, all the technologies we will need to reach our climate ambitious goals will require huge quantities of raw materials.
this legislation sets the right economic incentives for a more stable, secure, sustainable and socially responsible model for the deployment of mining and recycling projects.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
the commission has also been asked to submit a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
it is important to ensure a minimum level of protection for workers in the new digital work environment through common european regulation.
the truth is, however, that more and more people in europe are feeling the economic burden, the economic problems caused by this aggression, and first of all, they are caused precisely by the deliberate destruction of the natural, water and energy resources of the ukrainian state by the kremlin regime.
moreover, only he and one can deal with the great risks and challenges we face with global uncertainty, with climate risk, with the dangers posed by uncontrollable development of artificial intelligence.
in this legislature we are focused on improving the sustainability, design and accessibility of our buildings.
initiatives such as the 'renewal oil' initiative, the new building energy efficiency directive or the european new bauhaus work to improve the quality of our neighbourhoods and homes.
let's work together to create an environment that ensures the growth and success of our startups.