mr president, commissioner, colleagues, as many mentioned, video games are a highly innovative digital sector in europe, and therefore we need to realise that building a trustworthy online environment and increasing consumer trust can boost the economic growth.
mr president, commissioner, yes indeed, energy and energy inflation related to the ukraine war is the main driver of food prices.
the common agricultural policy is 0.4% of gdp for food security and ecological security, because farmers take on a lot of environmental and climate-related tasks.
so the food price increases we're talking about are certainly the result of reduced food production, primarily in the european union, and that's because of high environmental standards, which are higher than anywhere else in the world.
i therefore ask you: will the commission work to ensure that food imported from third countries is subject to the same environmental standards as food produced in the european union?
you have indeed highlighted what is important the european union has the highest standards of food quality and safety, the highest standards of animal welfare, the highest environmental standards in the world.
healthy and sustainable food should be the cheapest option.
so sustainability in agriculture is a very important thing.
we do not want to allow a situation to develop which at some point in the european union could have led to the complete cessation of fertiliser production, because the fertiliser companies were unable to continue production at such high energy and gas costs, or were forced to set prices that farmers could not afford.
and again, i say, it's a really big challenge to get 0.4% of gdp for our agriculture to provide food security and the highest environmental and climate standards in the world.
and above all, we need to create awareness that empowering our farmers, creating sustainable perspectives, sustainable foundations for food security for the future, but also giving farmers the ability to meet those environmental expectations that are placed on them, that this requires a stronger budget, stronger crisis management instruments.
well, you know, not long ago, last august, the biden administration passed the inflation reduction act, a major intervention tool of the american administration that put in place billions and billions of dollars, particularly measures that affect the agri-food sector in the united states and a $20 billion package just for the agriculture sector, with investments in sustainable production.
believe me, we have been negotiating very hard with all the member states, encouraging them to support organic farming as much as possible, to increase their ecological ambitions.
a study from the university of edinburgh last week confirmed to us that the fundamental problem is the price of fertilisers and the price of energy - the two main inputs.
for the same reason, ukraine is still facing intense bombing of its energy infrastructure.
moreover, in line with its commitments, it is azerbaijan’s responsibility to ensure that the lachin corridor strategic road remains open, whether genuine environmental concerns exist.
and, of course, perhaps the weakest part of the text has been the chapter on sustainability, which we hope and trust will be strengthened in that future revision, if we really want this instrument to be useful in moving forward in the green transition as well.
with a well-designed framework for investments in capital markets, as well as increased financial literacy, we are able to further support investments in long-term projects, and particularly in growing smes in this tough economic environment.
the social climate fund must be able to help those who cannot travel or pay for a bicycle.
currently, the cycling ecosystem represents 1 million jobs.
because cycling is good for employment, it's good for the climate, it's good for health, but it's especially good for purchasing power.
as i stated in my introduction, the commission acknowledges that cycling is important in the context of reaching the objectives of co2 reduction and fuel savings, as highlighted already under the european green deal, sustainable and smart mobility strategy, ‘fit for 55’ package and repowereu.
firstly, it is essential to ensure viable and sustainable production based in the eu.
the commission underlines the need to rapidly develop a market for renewable, low-carbon and fossil-free hydrogen-based fertilisers produced in the eu, such as, for example, green ammonia and organic fertilisers recycled from waste streams.
this is crucial to reduce the dependency of our fertiliser industry on imported fossil fuel feedstock and increase the security of supply in line with our climate objectives.
to this end, the 28 cap strategic plans include 122 interventions directed at improving nutrient management, 58 eco-schemes and sub-schemes and 64 agro-environment climate commitments.
furthermore, the commission will work with member states to ensure that more sustainable farming practices can be widely adopted by farmers.
for instance, we will oversee the implementation of the farm sustainability tool, a new digital tool that provides support for a more efficient use of fertilisers.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the 'farmer to the plate' strategy to include the following areas: the commission has already proposed a new law on nature conservation, the sustainable use of plant protection products, the industrial emissions directive, the soil health directive and so on.
this is the only way to make the sector more sustainable.
it saves farmers fertilizer costs, contributes to a circular agriculture, reduces our dependence on natural gas and prevents co2 emissions.
and the answers cannot be here: more mines, less tariffs, public money for the producers of fertilizer, because fertilizer also has another problem: it causes climate damage, it causes environmental damage, it pollutes our groundwater.
we have large parts of europe where we have nitrate pollution of the groundwater, and millions of citizens can no longer drink the groundwater here.
we have a problem of climate damage that is greater than that of air and sea transport in europe.
and i cannot understand why those on the conservative side of the house, whether in parliament or in the commission, are still relying on this old fossil fuel strategy, which clearly has to be phased out for the sake of the climate, biodiversity and the protection of our groundwater, and are not finally focusing on innovative technologies.
we’ve been talking in this house about the climate emergency, and something needs to happen.
we’ve been talking about energy poverty, people paying high energy bills every day because of their houses being totally inefficient and leaking.
now we have a proposal on the table that is addressing climate change, that is lowering our dependence on fossils, that is lowering the energy bill for our consumers.
we are obliging governments to invest in this, to deliver jobs and to make sure that our people are not wasting money on their energy bill.
as part of repowereu there is money made available, so there is a lot of european money that is available and that will deliver on climate, lower energy bills, jobs and less dependency on russia.
millions of homeowners in the eu will have to renovate their homes to save energy.
at the same time, the eu is doing nothing to reduce its own energy consumption.
the european parliament's energy costs quadrupled in 2022 compared to the previous year, amounting to over dkk 600 million.
the pointless warm-up of two parliaments in brussels and strasbourg is a disrespectful waste and a mockery of the citizens.
ordinary citizens are already doing an incredible amount to save energy, while the eu is totally ignoring it and just throwing the money out the window.
i speak for myself, for my political group, the socialists and democrats, and we have very clear ideas and we know that the interest of citizens, households and businesses today is to save energy, to consume less and to pay less in their bills; it's about preparing for the future, not sitting still like some would like, without giving the tools to deal with the big transformations we're experiencing.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the energy efficiency of buildings which we are about to vote on is a good one because it allows us to reduce the cost of bills and improve the quality of buildings.
with the instruments made available by this directive, which are often interpreted in a fanciful way by the supporters of energy and climate inertia, the whole of europe will make a very large investment which will already in the medium term have as a return a substantial reduction in energy consumption, which will make the coffers of many european citizens empty.
the longer we delay these interventions, the higher the costs will be, both in terms of energy bills and in terms of vulnerability and therefore geopolitics.
switching suppliers of fossil fuels to deal with the energy crisis generated by the russian invasion of ukraine is not a solution that keeps us vulnerable.
how will paying an energy certificate every five years and introducing a global warming potential certificate make those bills cheaper?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let there be no misunderstanding: we all share the objective of energy efficiency in buildings.
but this text is yet another example of how the ecological transition should not be conducted.
madam president, the energy crisis is leading us to consider ways of reducing the energy consumption of buildings and thus saving energy.
improving the energy efficiency of administrative buildings will certainly contribute to reducing emissions, for example building infrastructure for alternative fuelled vehicles.
to pretend that man is the main cause of climate change is completely unsustainable.
similarly, human activities will not prevent climate change.
anthropogenic greenhouse gas production accounts for 8 to 9%, but anthropogenic greenhouse gas production accounts for less than 5% of total greenhouse gas production.
the measures being implemented in the european union will affect the greenhouse gas balance by a factor of ten.
for those reasons, i cannot agree that the eu renewed its relations based on its energy needs.
on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
yes, there is one file out, that is the sustainable use of pesticides.
bees are an essential part of our ecosystem: without them, there is no harvest and no food.
but i also say that farmers are an essential part of our ecosystem, because without them there is no harvest and no food.
bees-friendly agriculture for a healthy environment shows how important this concern is to the european people.
when we talk about biodiversity and how we can preserve or improve it, we are talking in particular about family farming.
we have shown this way with a biodiversity enhancement law.
the european petitioners called for a greater commitment to the welfare of bees and pollinators, which is vital for environmental health and food security.
the latest evidence has also shown the need for a significant intensification of policies that better preserve habitats and agricultural areas so that they become a key driver for the recovery of biodiversity.
adequate support for farmers in the necessary rapid transition to full agro-ecology is key, with particular emphasis on diversified and sustainable small farming enterprises, organic farming and research in the field of pesticide-free and gm-free agriculture.
we’ve heard very strong contributions from the environment committee, the agriculture committee and the petitions committee.
our citizens are increasingly concerned about the use of pesticides and the build—up of pesticide residue in the environment.
recent analysis carried out by the jrc shows that biodiversity loss is a major threat to eu food security.
we really have to step up efforts not only to preserve, but also to restore nature and to reverse biodiversity loss.
this will help to improve essential ecosystem services like pollination and pest control.
honourable members, you will decide on two commission proposals on the regulation on nature restoration and the regulation on the sustainable use of plant protection products.
european citizens expect an ambitious outcome and substantial progress in the transition towards sustainability.
this initiative also raises key questions as to how farmers can play a central role in the transition towards more environmentally sustainable agriculture.
it has significantly higher environmental ambition compared with the past.
the new regulations, if ambitious, and the new cap, if implemented correctly, will help the eu respect the commitments made at the convention on biological diversity cop 15 under the new global biodiversity framework.
we need to solve the energy crisis in this decade with efforts by everyone for nature and pollinators, for farmers and for all europeans.
the protection of bees, of insects in general and of biodiversity as a whole is undoubtedly a matter of concern to farmers as well.
i think that if people in europe buy sustainable local food and accept slightly higher prices, they are probably doing the cause the best service, probably better even than signing a petition.
madam president, the protection of bees and other pollinators is essential and important not only for the environment and biodiversity but above all for the adequate production of food.
fluorinated greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting substances are extremely potent human-made greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming when released into the atmosphere.
ozone-depleting substances damage the very ozone layer itself that protects earth and humanity against dangerous ultraviolet radiation from the sun.
our existing rules have been quite successful and have already delivered very important emissions reductions.
to start with fluorinated gases or f-gases: these were the fastest-growing greenhouse gas emissions before we regulated them.
since we introduced the hfc phase-down in 2014, the emissions of f-gases in the eu have started to decrease.
the new rules before you today will further reduce f-gas emissions, contributing to europe’s 2030 climate target and beyond.
it equips our economy better and our pathway towards climate neutrality, setting an example to the rest of the world, and hopefully they will follow.
in the end, the whole world will have to make this transformation, and our industries will be the first to supply these low-carbon and climate-neutral solutions.
this transition will bring benefits for citizens as well, with, for instance, heat pumps that are more energy efficient.
we want to have more heat pumps, but we also want them climate-ready.
turning briefly to the ozone-depleting substances regulation: going ahead with their successful phase-out is really essential for our climate agenda.
thanks to the montreal protocol, we can expect that the ozone hole will recover by approximately 2070 and prevent a major impact in global warming.
models indicate that the existence of the protocol has prevented up to 2 ºc of climate warming by 2070 because of ozone-depleting substances only.
the danger is real, as shown by recent illegal production of ozone-depleting substances in china.
one major area where emissions still occur is an insulation foams in old houses when buildings are demolished or renovated.
this can be avoided by obligations to recover and destroy the ozone-depleting substances.
as regards the use of ozone-depleting substances in feedstocks.
we will continue the debate but urge for caution that a deviation from this approach might result in relocation of eu companies and potentially higher emissions globally.
this is again climate leadership in the making and i warmly want to thank the rapporteurs and their shadows for a job extremely well done.
– mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the ozone layer is one of the priorities of renew europe and, therefore, we really welcome the agreement that is put on the table on the ozone-depleting substances.
we believe that further restriction of those substances will help close the ozone layer and as such will contribute to the public health.
now, concerning the second regulation on fluorinated gases, we have here, as correctly said, ambitious proposals from the environmental committee aiming to vastly and fastly reduce the use of fluorinated gases.
the direction is good, to my feeling with this report, we would undermine further sustainability elements such as the circular economy, energy or material efficiency.
– mr president, well, if you know, we will vote tomorrow on the revision of the regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases, also known as ‘f—gases’, which belongs among the greenhouse gases.
it is, of course, right to limit the use of f—gases, because they have a high global warming potential, even greater than co2 itself.
besides their other applications, f—gases are used in heat pumps, which become one of the most effective tools to save energy and to cut off from russian gas.
fit for 55 is the world's largest package of legislation on climate neutrality.
we've been trying for 17 years, and we've found that the co2 emissions haven't decreased to the extent that we need to.
we europeans are introducing a new global instrument, the cbam, which takes climate action seriously and creates enormous competitive advantages for fast-growing companies.
i am not the only one who thinks this is a big mistake, because limited application will lead to carbon leakage and thus to the exodus of our industry.
this adjustment must be made before 2026.
mr president, the aim of the fit for 55 package is to: endorse and achieve a sustainable transition.
this is despite the fact that the security of energy supply is still not guaranteed.
i therefore regret that nuclear energy is not being unambiguously chosen as a fully-fledged, reliable and sustainable source of energy in this respect in the energy transition.
this is the reason for the smoking social climate fund, which is a case i have been following for almost a year now.
mr president i am pleased that the climate package includes an element that protects european industry.
cbam is finally doing what the foundation principle of a sound climate policy should be: paying for the polluters, rather than the people and smes, with companies producing cheaper products in third countries with lower climate protection standards.
i would like to emphasize the extension and strengthening of one of the pillars of our climate policy, which is the emissions trading system, which has enabled us, since it has been in place since 2005, to reduce emissions by more than 40% in the areas it regulates.
we have three questions about this system of buying and selling emissions: extending it to maritime transport, which is very important; preventing the price of emission allowances from skyrocketing with a series of clauses; and, at the same time, building the social climate fund, which should exceed eur 86 billion to support the most vulnerable.
in addition, the border adjustment mechanism for carbon has to protect our industry and prevent unfair behaviour by foreign producers.
mr president, the climate package that will be voted on tomorrow, negotiated during the czech presidency, will do little to protect the climate and will weaken the european states.
and the climate duty that is supposed to protect local industry from cheap imports is in many cases only reflected in the final price for europeans.
extending the emissions allowance to families who drown themselves and drive their own cars is, in this day and age, i'm sorry, crazy.
in sum, the czech presidency's agreement will make people's lives more expensive, deepen inflation, do little to help the climate and threaten european industry.
in the case of impacts from global climate change, the first consideration is whether the target is achievable.
a 55% reduction in co2 emissions, if the eu countries contribute 9%, means a reduction of about 5%, compared to a 17% increase in the previous decade.
one contentious point was related to the climate impact of crypto mining.
mica will require now issuers and crypto companies to disclose information on the climate footprint of the crypto they issue and trade, based on a standardised methodology.
this is positive but i have to say it is only a first step until we finally manage to better control at international level certain consensus mechanisms that are extremely energy intensive and have become a threat for our climate goals.
from lending and staking, decentralised finance, nfts to the environmental impact of crypto mining, as well as on antitrust and with respect to supervision of crypto groups.
it will also provide legal certainty for market participants that will be able to continue to innovate in a safe environment.
crypto-asset service providers will also have to disclose the environmental impact of crypto-assets they offer to customers.
the s&d group is therefore calling for the adoption of a new directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of pollution caused by the use of chemicals.
i believe that we have a good opportunity to continue along this regulatory path, which the commission is also inviting us to follow, and to ensure an environment of greater stability which will also allow the innovative advantages of this type of asset to be exploited.
crypto, on the other hand, not only defaults on the investor, it also pollutes the climate.
moreover, it’s incomprehensible that the crypto sector is still excluded from climate change policy.
as this year’s rapporteur, i highlighted a number of recommendations for the future, especially concerning: performance under the modified working regime; sustainability and environmental impact of the institutions and long-term ecological strategies; digitalisation and cybersecurity, particularly given the high increase in use of it tools and remote working conditions; ethical framework and transparency, particularly with regard to prevention of harassment and conflict of interests; and gender and geographical balance.
i welcome the efforts by the committee of the regions in strengthening their code of conduct, promoting their work and achievement in the field of sustainability and green agenda.
the committee of the regions achieved the best results in terms of sustainability and switching to environmentally friendly infrastructure.
– mr president, thank you, honourable members of the european parliament, it is good to see the overall consensus on the importance of energy transition and a competitive and resilient energy system for european energy security.
and in the coming months, we will use the process to upgrade national energy and climate plans so that national plans together tap into the significantly higher targets, both on renewables and energy efficiency.
there is one more thing we have to do together still, under this current mandate: adopt the first list of projects of common interest and projects of mutual interest following the adoption of the revised regulation on the trans-european energy networks.
these projects will be crucial to integrating increasing volumes of renewables and advancing energy system integration.
the energy union should guarantee greater choice and lower prices for eu consumers, but since russia invaded ukraine, the old continent has been plagued by a huge energy crisis.
energy prices have jumped dramatically for both businesses and ordinary consumers.
on the contrary, the brussels authorities are increasingly actively and persistently pushing for restrictions on nuclear energy, for example.
if we keep wasting our time on pointless discussions, we risk deepening the energy problem.
the european commission issues an annual report on the state of the energy union, the last such document in its cycle.
this is therefore an appropriate opportunity for brussels to assess its performance in the field of european energy policy.
on the one hand, the commission's catastrophic sanctions policy has caused a serious energy crisis in europe.
on the other hand, security of supply and solidarity are among the principles of the energy union.
this hostile move weakens the energy union, which the commission should act immediately against.
finally, the energy union's primary task would be to promote affordable energy supply.
the bureaucrats and their left-wing comrades would release the market prices of energy to the public, paying the price of their failed policies.
the annual state of the energy union report is a great opportunity to take a closer look at how the union is implementing energy policies based on the principles of security of supply, solidarity and progressive sectoral integration.
this year's report is particularly relevant as it comes in the context of the ongoing war in ukraine, the threats to energy supply and raw material prices caused by russian aggression, and the ongoing economic and social consequences of the covid-19 pandemic.
russia's aggression against ukraine and the ensuing energy crisis has accelerated the eu's diversification of energy supplies.
however, in times of energy crisis and high energy and raw material prices, which negatively affect citizens and industry, it should not be forgotten that the union should not only favour certain energy sources, especially renewable energy.
it should be noted that all energy sources that reduce emissions should be supported.
the energy union has demonstrated its importance and resilience in ensuring security of supply and price control in a context of a strong threat posed by the suspension of supplies from russia.
it has also been resisting strongly the attacks of those who want to take advantage of the war and inflationary context to reverse the purpose of modernising the energy system and the goal of decarbonising and combating climate change.
there is no reason why we should not pursue the political, economic, technological and environmental objectives of the european ecological pact with determination.
the construction of the single market requires, however, a determined and solidary acceleration in the construction of the necessary interconnections which have been and are increasingly the achilles' heel of the energy union.
furthermore, the evolution of technological maturity and monitoring instruments creates the conditions for a revision of the energy union governance regulation which takes into account new options and fosters a broad public debate and commitment to the future involving all european societies.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by alexander vondra on behalf of the committee on science, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the type-approval of mechanical vehicles and engines with regard to their emissions and battery life (euro 7) (com(2022) 0586 - c9-0375/2022 - 2022/0365(cod)) (a9-0298/2023).
no matter which politician you ask, they will all claim to be committed to a sustainable automotive industry.
the commission’s original proposal would have a hugely negative impact on consumers and car manufacturers – an impact which is disproportionate to its positive environmental effects.
it was therefore imperative to rework the commission text and establish a better balance between the environmental objectives and the concerns of consumers and manufacturers.
after four months of negotiations, i believe that the mandate adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety largely achieves that.
secondly, under these testing conditions, the report is able to correspond with the levels proposed by the commission for pollutant emissions for passenger cars, and proposes additional three categories for light commercial vehicles based on their weight.
thirdly, the adopted text also proposes tougher limits for exhaust emissions from the buses and heavy-duty vehicles, including levels set for the real driving emissions.
one is improving air quality to lower the number of premature deaths in the eu – 70 000 people in europe die prematurely every year due to air pollution from cars, vans, buses and trucks.
and thirdly, preserving the competitiveness of our automotive industry, and when i speak about automotive industry, i don’t only mean large manufacturers, i mean the entire ecosystem, including component manufacturers and aftermarket services.
first, the need to tackle exhaust emissions both from light duty- and from heavy duty vehicles.
second, the need to start regulating non-exhaust emissions and to do so based on the work carried out at un level.
and here timing is important, both from an environmental and an economic perspective.
postponing the application would also reduce environmental and health benefits.
i also have some questions, or at least doubts, concerning some of the proposed changes regarding brake emissions for hybrid electric vehicles or battery durability requirements.
mr president, i believe that the opinion of the transport committee balances the need to reduce emissions and the need to ensure the competitiveness of european industry, ensuring, of course, jobs and at the same time, consumer mobility.
the result of the environment committee reflects very much the result of the transport committee and i appreciate what the rapporteur in the envi committee has done and i believe that this result can be improved by the amendments to the plenary, in particular with regard to co2-neutral fuels.
i think that this way we can actually reduce emissions, because we can ensure that the cars that are now on european roads reduce emissions.
climate change is only with industry, not against it.
co2-neutral fuels help protect the climate.
and the means by which we achieve climate protection or better air in the end cannot be prescribed.
that is why we have made changes to ensure that the continuation of the operation of fuel-efficient cars powered by carbon-neutral fuels is possible even after 2035. i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals.
this is the biggest threat to our health in the eu, so tackling air pollution is a common responsibility or it should be a common political responsibility.
the euro 7 agreement simply does not provide for air pollution.
together with the automotive industry, they have reduced emissions ambitions, weakened testing and delayed implementation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all want cars that respect the environment, but we must be careful.
the european union's climate objectives must go hand in hand with the effort required of car and auto component manufacturers, and the proposal that has been drawn up is certainly the right balance between the two needs.
it is clear that the automotive industry is already facing unprecedented challenges related to the consequences of war, such as limited access to raw materials, rising energy prices or inflationary pressures, and it is precisely in times of crisis like these that sectors such as the automotive sector must make a difference and must do so competitively on the international stage, as well as ensure affordable mobility for our citizens.
you will explain to europeans who will suffocate with this air and to the 300,000 victims of air pollution each year.
you want to pass a new standard on car pollution, the famous euro 7 standard.
behind your so-called environmental objectives lies a desire to end our freedoms, starting with freedom of movement.
in my opinion, it is crucial to find the right balance between industry and our climate goals.
i would say that reasonable deadlines for enforcing these rules give the industry time to adapt without compromising on our environmental goals.
also, our compliance with un regulations on particulate emissions, brakes and tire brakes shows our responsibility and what we call leadership.
this legislative proposal puts us at the forefront of the fight against climate change, but it also carries the burden of responsibility for its precise implementation and enforcement.
at the end of last year, the european commission presented a package called euro 7 - new environmental standards for cars.
its environmental impact would be controversial and the impact on car manufacturers and users would be clearly negative: slowing innovation, stopping small car production, mass layoffs by manufacturers, raising the price of new cars by tens of thousands of crowns.
these fuels not only contribute to reducing emissions but also enable future use of combustion engine technology.
and this is a disaster for the environment.
mr president, commissioner, if we accept the proposal as you have proposed, it would threaten to turn carbon storage into a business for a few speculators who will buy land not to produce food in a more economical way but to stop producing food and to focus fully on profitable permit trading.
we have, as you know, little experience with this, and our companies and our citizens are paying billions in energy, goods and services for this experiment.
i am therefore pleased that we have been able to find consensus across this house and convince our colleagues that carbon farming should be a reasonable complement to the current management and production of food.
involvement in the carbon economy in food production will be voluntary and motivational, not mandated and enforced.
we're committed to sustainability, but we're also complicating the development of public transportation for cities.
this has a very negative effect on the physical and mental health not only of the victim but also of the environment.
so while there are now many losers in these crises, there are also some winners, for example energy companies.
while some people did not know, and still do not know, how to heat enough, energy companies have made huge profits.
the richest 10 percent are responsible for up to 40 times more emissions than the poorest 10 percent.